&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 10 March 2005. &#160;&#160; I would like to begin by welcoming Monsignor Rallo, the Vatican’s special envoy to the Council of Europe, to the diplomatic gallery on behalf of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, last week we all learnt of the sad news of the death of Pope John Paul II.
Above all, however, we in the European Parliament must acknowledge the gratitude Europe owes him for its reunification; his messages of peace and freedom undoubtedly had an enormous influence on the fall of the Communist system: firstly in his own country, Poland, and then in all the other countries of Eastern Europe.
For this and many other reasons, I would like to ask that we all now observe a minute’s silence in his memory. &#160;&#160; The final version of the agenda for the present part-session as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 7 April pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has proposed that the Commission make a Statement on illegal imports of BT 10 maize into the European Union.
If I may say so, doing so would be entirely with the agreement of the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, Mr&#160;Florenz. &#160;&#160; We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, to include a Commission statement on illegal imports of BT 10 maize into the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the closeness of the result and Mrs Grossetête’s statement lead me to assume that, once the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has dealt with this issue, it will come before the House as a whole. &#160;&#160; Of course.
On the one hand, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has requested that the item on Bangladesh be replaced by the issue of Burma.
The rationale seems rather specious to me, and so we are in favour of keeping this item on the agenda. &#160;&#160; We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to replace the item on Bangladesh with the issue of Burma.
The item on Lampedusa shall remain on the agenda.
No amendments have been proposed for the sittings of 27 and 28 April. &#160;&#160; The first item we are going to deal with is the requests for one-minute speeches from Members.
Having already written to you on this very subject, I should like you to ascertain from the Commission whether that is the case, what criteria the Commission is applying and why the Commission is unwilling to accept Parliament’s decision. &#160;&#160; – I wish to express my concern regarding the guidelines for applying the safeguard clause to the textiles and clothing sector announced by the Commission on 6&#160;April.
The Commission appears to have confirmed that it wants these guidelines to block, rather than facilitate, the application of those safeguard measures, as Commissioner Ferrero Waldner made clear in the debate in this House.
In light of the reported sharp rise in requests for export to the EU, measures to defend the present and future of this important sector should have been taken long ago, such as implementing, at the earliest opportunity, the safeguard clauses provided for in the trade agreements. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to pay tribute before this House to the Holy Father John Paul&#160;II.
Through his intimate union with God, and in keeping with his motto, , Pope John Paul&#160;II’s actions showed us God’s will in shaping civilisation, life and love.
In his roles as priest, bishop, cardinal and pope he defended life from conception to natural death, as well as the dignity and rights of every individual and of entire nations, whilst reminding us that democracy without values can quickly turn into open or disguised totalitarianism.
Let us pray to God for the Holy Father, and also for a united Europe of fatherlands rooted in Christian values. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to draw your attention to the Global Security Fund, set up in the early 1990s under the auspices of Jacob Rothschild.
To that question I now add another: what are the European Union’s connections to the Global Security Fund and what relationship does it have with European Union institutions? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the course of International Women’s Day on 8 March in Istanbul, there was a violent demonstration in which the police used force to disperse the women.
I want the Commission to be appropriately firm in ensuring that Turkey complies with the rules we would impose. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in June 1995, the Turkish National Assembly adopted a motion authorising the Turkish Government to take all the necessary measures, including military measures, against Greece should Greece, exercising its sovereign right, extend its territorial waters to 12 nautical miles, as provided for in the International Convention on the Law of the Sea.
A few days previously, the President of the Turkish National Assembly proposed the lifting of the .
I believe that, as President of the European Parliament and with the sensitivity for which you are renowned, you should take an immediate initiative and send a mission on this question to the President of the Turkish National Assembly and to the political parties, in order to get this historic anachronism lifted in a country which wishes to accede to the European Union and on which the European Parliament passed a positive resolution in December 2004.
Mr De Rossa. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to raise my concern that the Irish Government is not fully respecting the minimum legal and humanitarian standards for the reception and processing of immigrants and asylum seekers that have been established by the European Union.
On 14 March this year, the police took into custody 35 Nigerians, including men, women and children.
I firmly believe that the Irish Government is in breach of European Union standards in relation to transparency in complying with humanitarian law, and the minimum standards that we have set down.
So I would ask you, Mr&#160;President, to request that the Commission carry out an investigation into this matter and report back to this House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a twenty-year-old Turkish woman suffering from leukaemia will soon die unless she is given a bone marrow transplant from a compatible donor.
Mr President, would you, as a matter of urgency, use your good offices to contact the Turkish Government in order to urge them to assist in this humanitarian issue and prove that the fight against cancer has no boundaries in Europe. &#160;&#160; I shall take account of your request.
The matter is currently before the French courts, but I am sure that this House will join me in asking the President of this Parliament to write to Eutelsat demanding a full explanation of why it is breaking its own charter committed to upholding media freedom. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole world has heard that President Mugabe’s ZANU-PF Party won the parliamentary elections in Zimbabwe with an overwhelming majority, but no one is labouring under any illusions, because it is common knowledge that those elections were far from free and fair.
They involved intimidation and terror by Mugabe’s followers, as well as electoral fraud on a massive scale.
The British newspaper is right in saying that, as long as the African leaders and Mbeki refuse to take action against Zimbabwe, their own pledges of democracy and good governance in exchange for European funds are completely meaningless.
If those countries continue to protect Mugabe, the EU should stop giving them money. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing older than yesterday’s news, as the saying goes.
In practice, however, this House could make do with one newspaper for a whole year.
This is the length of time that has passed since the election of the new Parliament, and yet we continue to tell our visitors – some 200&#160;000 of whom have visited Parliament’s buildings here in Strasbourg and in Brussels in the space of a year – that Mr&#160;Cox is the President of Parliament.
I believe that we should all be ashamed of distributing such outdated materials to tens of thousands of people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to bring to your attention the fact that, on 19 January, a court in Athens sentenced the Austrian caricaturist and artist Gerhard Haderer to six months in jail, a charge of blasphemy having been brought against him by the Greek Orthodox Church in respect of his book ‘The Life of Jesus’.
His appeal is to be heard on 13 April, or in other words the day after tomorrow.
Taking my cue from this significant occasion, I should like to call upon the European Parliament to work together with the Apostolic See to organise a conference on employment, to be held before the end of the year.
The issue of employment, which is a major problem faced by Europe, the European Union and the whole world, was very dear to the heart of the Polish Pope, who believed that help should always be given to unemployed people.
It is for this reason that I am calling upon the European Parliament to hold a conference of this kind this year in conjunction with the Apostolic See.
In spite of considerable evidence gathered by Mrs Erica Duggan, his mother, that Jeremiah died in very worrying and suspicious circumstances, last week the Hessen State Prosecutor decided not to investigate.
The European Convention on Human Rights imposes an obligation to protect life, which must mean investigating suspicious deaths. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common foreign and security policy that the European Union is engaged in developing necessarily involves joint regulation of weapons exports, and so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Venezuela is currently engaged in a process of rearmament and that this, in view of the conflicts on its borders, is particularly likely to prompt a crisis situation.
If I may give an example, Venezuela has bought 100&#160;000 Kalashnikov rifles from Russia, and, as its army consists of only 35&#160;000 troops, one cannot but wonder for whom they are intended.
Venezuela has also signed a contract with a Member State of the European Union for the purchase of four corvettes, four patrol vessels, ten transport aircraft and two sea reconnaissance aircraft.
I would ask you, Mr President, to ascertain whether these actions are in breach of the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Exports. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to draw the attention of the House to the current state of affairs regarding the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
This Treaty, which was signed in October 2004, is currently awaiting ratification before it enters into force.
What this means is that governments are obliged under international law to take all steps necessary to ensure that the European Constitution is ratified.
It therefore follows that neither states nor governments should in any way support or tolerate anti-Constitution campaigns.
As the Latin saying goes, ‘’, that is, ‘agreements must be honoured’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the very strong euro is creating huge problems in the economically less developed countries of Europe.
We cannot sell our products.
Today I would like to mention the Electricity Directive which should have been implemented by 1 June 2004.
Mr Pek has the floor. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest man of our time, John Paul&#160;II, has passed away.
The European Commission tells us to wait.
Mr Medina Ortega has the floor. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I regret what Mr de Grandes has said, and it seems he has the wrong Parliament.
We hope that the People’s Party, within the framework of the Spanish constitutional system, is prepared to take a more flexible position, in order to make it possible to bring the Spanish judicial system back into line with the rule of law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we never talk about children's rights, almost as if such children do not exist, but they do.
Commissioner Frattini knows all these problems well and it seems to me that you could arrange with the Commission for this question, that is the question of children's rights, to be debated in a plenary session. &#160;&#160; Mr de Grandes, are you requesting the floor on a point of order? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am speaking pursuant to Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure, as a result of personal comments. &#160;&#160; Rule 145 has been invoked previously by other Members and I have pointed out that this Rule relates to issues of a personal nature.
Frankly, I do not believe there has been any personal accusation against you. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have been mentioned by name, accused of fraudulent use of Parliament. &#160;&#160; You have been mentioned, but I do not believe that ... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have been mentioned, and a value judgment has been made against me. &#160;&#160; Mr de Grandes, I do not wish my personal circumstances to lead to my interpreting the Rules of Procedure in a biased fashion, because that would be regrettable, and I do not believe that to be the case, Mr de Grandes.
Mr Cavada has the floor. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;Vice-President of the Commission, the oral questions presented to you by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs focus on three prior conditions to which Parliament has returned regularly since the Treaty of Amsterdam set us the objective of transforming the EU into an area of freedom, security and justice.
This discrepancy between public declarations and practical decisions already sees us face to face before the Court of Justice, disputing regulations in the areas of family reunification, data protection and, perhaps tomorrow, asylum procedure.
Greater effectiveness comes next, since most of the responses given by the institutions to requests in connection with the free movement of persons or with tackling organised crime or terrorism remain very vague when they are not merely theoretical declarations.
It will be difficult for us to obtain more mutual trust if we are not in a position to define the tasks of each decision-making level, the expected responses and the measures to be taken in case of a failure to act.
In certain cases, like that of the development of information bodies, the replies have even been so vague as to make one wonder if they really have been devised in a way that is equal to the questions raised.
I shall in any case listen very carefully, or rather – since obligations in connection with the French election campaign will require me to leave the Chamber in a few minutes’ time – I shall, no later than tomorrow morning, read the replies given to us in the course of this debate.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs – and I, as its rapporteur – had doubts about the legal basis for this proposal, and in this the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Commission and the Council’s Legal Service agreed with us.
I would now just like to know whether we can assume that the Council will do likewise and involve Parliament in the decision on this matter, or whether we can take it as read that the Member States will stick with their proposal in the full knowledge that they are setting themselves against three institutions.
The Commission and the legal services tell us that this subject falls within the scope of the first pillar where Parliament has a say.
The Commission has already said it will table a proposal of its own, but the Council, as if on automatic pilot, continues to hold meetings on the proposal of those four Member States.
I would also like to know how this can be reconciled with the governments’ position on the Constitution, which stipulates, after all, that Parliament will become colegislator in the third pillar too.
If this House and the Commission have justifiable misgivings about whether Parliament should be involved and, if it is to be involved, to what extent, then – if we are to get anywhere – the Council must give us its final decision on the matter today.
The second issue is that no answer has as yet been given to the question Mrs Buitenweg raised just now about whether doing this sort of thing with data is actually necessary – about whether it is productive, whether it is helpful, whether it really will succeed in helping keep people in the European Union safe, or whether it adds up to nothing more than shooting from the hip at a time when the European Union was also in a situation of grave crisis.
We cannot but be very pleased that the Council has heard our requests, and we wish to continue in this spirit of dialogue between equal partners in order to ensure the continuity of the progress to be made.
I am therefore delighted that the Commission has presented a Green Paper on economic immigration.
I really wish to draw the Council’s and the Commission’s attention to our great concern about this proposal.
In the worst case, it is in danger of jeopardising the more protective asylum policies of certain Member States.
Yes, 2004 was the year of the Constitutional Treaty, which opens up new horizons for people and for the European Parliament, as shown by the questions put by Mr&#160;Cavada.
By reinforcing judicial and police cooperation, by extending codecision and qualified majority voting – an absolute necessity in a democratic Europe of 25 Member States – and by laying the foundations of a genuinely common asylum and immigration policy, Europe will contribute genuine added value to our citizens where security, justice and freedom are concerned.
A vote in favour of the European Constitution will be a vote in favour of a more secure and therefore freer Europe.
A vote against the European Constitution will mean our maintaining the national barriers faced by our police and magistrates while criminals take advantage of the absence of borders.
In a community governed by law, such as the European Union, the Council will carry out its work while respecting the rules laid down by the sole Treaties currently in force.
In the field of asylum, the Council has adopted a directive concerning the minimum standards relating to the conditions that third-country nationals or stateless persons have to fulfil in order to claim the status of refugees or of persons needing international protection.
In order to ensure greater solidarity between the Member States, we have established a European Fund for Refugees, which will make it possible to support the efforts made by the Member States in this field.
Regarding admission, I should like in particular to emphasise that the Council has adopted the directive relating to residence permits issued to third-country nationals who are victims of human trafficking.
This agency will be operational as from 1&#160;May 2005.
The Luxembourg Presidency is making efforts to find a definitive headquarters for it, but I have to tell you that, with five candidates in contention, it cannot be assumed that there will be unanimous support for a solution, especially if none of the five countries gives up its candidacy, as none has done so far.
Two readmission agreements with Hong Kong and Macao have now entered into force.
Those with Albania and Sri Lanka have been finalised.
Where visa policy is concerned, the Council has decided to add to the European Union’s budget the appropriations necessary for developing the VIS, the system whereby the Member States will be able to exchange data concerning visas and which will enable the national authorities to capture and update data relating to visas, as well as to consult such data electronically.
By doing this, we have created a basis for harmonisation whereby passports and travel documents must contain digitalised photographs of their holders’ faces, as well as recorded fingerprints.
In accordance with this decision, the Member States will have until August 2006 to introduce biometric elements into passports.
In the area of police cooperation, you know that, since the appalling attacks on New York and Madrid, the fight against international terrorism has become a priority.
The European Union’s strategy is global in character and provides for a whole series of measures.
Mr&#160;Gijs de Vries was appointed as coordinator of the fight against terrorism in March of last year.
This coordinating function within the Council – I emphasise this in response to the question put – is important if the various structures within the Council are to have a coherent approach in an area affecting development, the police, justice, defence, external policy and other areas.
As President-in-Office of the Council, I attach particular importance to continuing to make these joint efforts to combat terrorism and to ensure – and this is important – that the decisions taken are duly implemented by the Member States.
Regarding the integration of Europol into European Union law, I should like to remind you that the Hague programme specifies that the Council must adopt European legislation on Europol as soon as possible after the Constitutional Treaty has come into force and no later than in January 2008, taking account of all the tasks entrusted to Europol.
In the meantime, Europol will continue with its efforts to improve its operations by making full use of the cooperation agreement concluded with Eurojust.
What is more, Europol and Eurojust should encourage recourse to the Member States’ joint investigation teams and facilitate their own participation in these.
The Council has also adopted complementary measures aimed at enabling the European Police College to develop progressively.
Moreover, the Council has adopted several measures aimed at reinforcing police cooperation in certain specific areas.
The number of vehicles stolen each year in the Member States of the European Union is currently estimated at 1.2 million.
The Council has taken several decisions aimed at combating violence connected in particular with football, the public disorder it entails and its consequences for those who respect the laws.
In this context, we have taken several cooperation measures enabling us to put security measures in place, for example for the European Football Championship which took place in Portugal last year.
When it comes to judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and taking account, on this issue too, of the question put just now by Mr&#160;Cavada concerning the quality of justice, I would inform you that the Council has noted with interest the recommendation of the European Parliament concerning the quality of criminal justice and the harmonisation of criminal legislation in the Member States.
I would take the liberty of reminding you in this connection that the Tampere European Council has already defined the initial parameters for action in this field, and the 2004 Hague programme defines the actions it would be appropriate to implement in the future.
A deciding factor in this context is mutual confidence in the Member States’ legal and judicial systems.
In 2004, the Council continued to implement the mutual recognition of judgments programme, which has to be anchored in the mutual confidence of which I have just spoken.
In the area of mutual recognition, we have arrived at an agreement in principle on the draft framework decision relating to the mutual recognition of fines, as well as on the draft framework decision relating to the mutual recognition of confiscation orders.
The Council has also examined the proposal aimed at devising a system for exchanging information extracted from police records with a view to promoting a better knowledge of convictions.
I do hope that, in the course of this week’s Council and of the Councils to follow, we shall be able to make progress on this matter, which is important to the lives of people in our Member States.
We have also made progress in relation to substantive criminal law, particularly by adopting the framework decisions in the field of drug trafficking and several reports on the implementation of framework decisions on the subjects, especially, of combating money laundering and terrorism.
In the Council, we have begun examining the proposal for a framework decision in relation to a number of procedural rights accorded within the framework of criminal procedures in the European Union, essential factors for creating the confidence of which I spoke just now.
Regarding the retention of telecommunications data, which is the subject of the questions also put this evening, I would emphasise that the Council attaches great importance to this document in the fight against crime.
As a lawyer, I am well aware that the legal basis is important.
Obviously, it will be possible to discuss all the other aspects mentioned this evening in the Chamber.
The Council has also made effective progress in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters which, moreover, constitutes an important dimension of Europeans’ lives.
The Council has laid down rules when it comes to the mutual recognition of decisions relating to family law, commercial law or other areas of civil law.
We have adopted a directive relating to the compensation of victims in cross-border situations.
We have carried on with the work concerning the proposal for a regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, namely Rome&#160;II.
I hope that we shall soon be able to make progress, both in the European Parliament and in the Council, on the issues relating to the legal basis.
We have also begun examining the proposal for a directive on certain aspects of mediation so that it will be possible for the decisions taken in accordance with the directive to be recognised and implemented in all the Member States.
You can see that, in 2004, huge progress was made in constructing a more secure, more just and therefore freer Europe.
My only regret is that there is still such a lot to be done and that progress is sometimes slow, given the need for unanimity in the Council and different legal traditions.
In this European judicial area, the Council and the European Parliament share the same ambitions, I think.
The Constitutional Treaty opens up new prospects for us.
I am able to tell you, on behalf of the Council, that I am committed to constructive cooperation with Parliament and to working tirelessly to ensure that our people can live in security and freedom. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, honourable Members, the Commission is obviously deeply committed to furthering a real, effective European area of justice, security and freedom.
The first principle is seeking a balance – not a legal balance, but primarily a political and institutional one – between the two main demands made by Europe’s citizens: more security on the one hand, and more freedom on the other.
I cannot imagine a European area in which citizens are guaranteed more security but at the expense of their freedom, with a reduction in their area of freedom and safeguards.
As Minister Frieden quite rightly pointed out, the added value that Europe can provide is to be found in this balance.
The second major guideline is solidarity, which we see as a principle that will enable us again to develop a European area in the vast field of immigration policy.
Consider, for instance, cooperation with non-EU countries – countries of origin and countries of transit – which need to be supported in their policies so that together we can manage the question of immigration and not just look on it as if the issue ought not to affect us directly, in the future or perhaps even now.
I see Europe’s commitment in this field to lie in promoting and not just protecting fundamental rights, starting with the establishment of an Agency for Fundamental Rights, the purpose of which will be precisely to promote full respect for these rights and not just to enforce them.
First of all, the action plan – mentioned by Minister Frieden and Mr&#160;Cavada and others – will be submitted in time to be approved under the Luxembourg Presidency in June; it will of course be submitted before that, but it will take account of the debate which even today is bringing out some important points.
We are thinking of doing the preparatory work by the beginning of 2006, even before the Constitutional Treaty enters into force, an event that we fervently – very fervently – hope will happen.
Instead, therefore, we believe we should help, encourage and spur on the Member States through a joint effort between the Commission and the Council, which in this respect is essential.
I shall not dwell on what the main priorities are, as they have already been mentioned: terrorism requires a broad, non-emergency, prevention and reaction strategy, which must certainly respect people’s fundamental rights; personal data protection initiatives will be formally submitted very soon, and in the second half of the year there will also be a comprehensive data protection initiative under the third pillar, as I promised this Parliament.
Next, fundamental rights.
At the beginning of July we shall be putting forward a comprehensive communication on the international dimension of security and justice – of the European area of freedom, security and justice – reaffirming the role that Europe can and must play in the world as the defender and promoter of fundamental rights and of great principles and great values.
Much has been said on the subject of justice: confidence and mutual trust, and harmonisation are the two key concepts.
The Commission is of course looking forward with great interest to the results on the unresolved issues that the Green Paper on immigration has brought to the notice of everybody here, without prescribing solutions, as you know, but stating the issues.
This, then, is the spirit in which we want to work with Parliament.
Thirdly, as mentioned by Mr Cavada and Mrs&#160;Roure, major changes have taken place in the area of justice and home affairs, with a new institutional framework entering into force as regards visas, asylum and immigration, whereby codecision with Parliament and qualified majority voting in the Council now apply.
Lastly, three aspects that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers fundamental: firstly, the entry into force of the Constitutional Treaty, with the consequent abolition of the pillar structure; secondly, that the codecision process should extend to areas such as legal immigration and integration, so that full democratic accountability can be guaranteed in the decisions taken in these areas; and thirdly and lastly, that judicial control should be improved by extending the Court of Justice’s powers. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, establishing a European area of freedom, security and justice is a historic task, and the period currently under review is a historic period, since in 2004 the EU became a union of 25 Member States, and in this new political environment, security and justice must be able to embark on a path of further development.
In this EU of 25 Member States, the terms ‘outside’ and ‘inside’ have a different meaning, and this new world not only needs new regulations; it also needs new institutions, ones that do not just function in formal terms, but that really know those 25 Member States, including the domestic problems and fault lines of the ten new ones.
This is why we are keen to ensure that the new institutions, the European Border Control Agency and the European Human Rights Agency, are really able to work substantively and effectively.
The EU is in fact caught in the middle of conflicting interests and expectations on the part of citizens: as Commissioner Frattini rightly points out, the citizens of Europe want more security and more freedom.
We also understand that there may sometimes be a temptation to override the values of freedom or solidarity, but we must not allow ourselves to do so.
It potentially makes a big difference, both to the degree of privacy infringement and to the degree of openness and democracy in decision-making, whether that proposal is based in EU law or is simply intergovernmental.
This needs a serious public debate, mediated through this Parliament, on the basis of thorough privacy impact assessments accompanying each proposal.
However, what we are getting is a process of salami slicing, where each new proposal removes a little more protection against invasions of privacy.
The former reflects a trend that has been apparent in debates over recent months, whether on counter-terrorism or data collection; one cannot help thinking that the Council has for some time been wandering around the outermost limits of the existing Treaties, and has – ever more glaringly and with ever-increasing frequency – been going against the guarantees of fundamental rights.
It is very evidently high time something was made clear, namely that the Constitution’s improvements in terms of what can be done for internal security, and the improved instruments it contains, are inseparable from the fundamental rights guaranteed in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and from Parliament’s involvement across the board.
The response of the labour and grass-roots movement must be to step up the fight against non-compliance with and disobedience to reactionary laws and the European Union itself. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner and Council, this legal area is still extremely undeveloped, even if, in all honesty, it also has to be said that a very great deal has nonetheless happened in the last ten years.
The Member States are neglecting fundamental human rights.
The spirit of the new Treaty, which speaks of new forms of democracy and of respect for fundamental rights, emphatically cannot in actual fact be neglected.
In this Parliament, we absolutely cannot agree to these matters being pushed through without there being cooperation with Parliament on the issue.
Our policy on these issues needs to be a little wiser, a little more moderate and, in all events, better explained.
So please: fewer words and more gravitas. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there has been a lot of talk about the right balance of security and civil liberties, but let us see how it works in practice.
The United States was therefore clearly breaking the rules and I would like to hear what action the Commission is going to take.
I would like Mr Frattini to inform us of the state of play regarding the creation of the working group on fundamental rights promised to us by Mr Barroso.
The Hague programme to emerge from the conclusions of the European Council in November says security is urgent and is a priority objective, especially in the light of the terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001 in the USA and 11 March in Madrid.
In fact the opposite is true, as the accession of a new group of Member States has meant that we can cooperate more effectively in Europe.
This includes judicial cooperation in civil and penal matters, which is of enormous significance for the legal security of citizens.
The final point relating to enlargement I should like to highlight is an important one, namely that action plans and strategies must be drawn up concerning the EU’s relations with the third countries along its lengthening eastern external border, because this is new territory as regards justice and home affairs. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Robert Schuman concludes his book with the words ‘Europe is in search of itself’.
The position of the Member States on this issue varies, but this should not stand in the way of Parliament being able to bring about real change together with the Commission and the Council.
This code was adopted by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on 19&#160;September 2001 and ought to be considered the starting point for developing professional standards for the police in the European Union.
In terms of the Union’s internal policy, turning the code into a binding legal act would, owing to the provisions it contains regarding training in ethics for police officers, have an important preventive and safeguarding function, so that – Mr&#160;Frattini knows what I am talking about – serious violations of human rights such as those committed by the Italian police in Genoa during the G8 Summit in 2001 will not happen again.
Respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law in third countries is an essential factor for the EU in developing external relations and concluding international treaties. &#160;&#160; – Last week-end, on two separate occasions, two corpses were brought up from the sea in Malta.
I therefore wish to congratulate the European Commission on its proposal which is related in a particular way to the problem which is referred to as 'burden sharing’.
The challenge to public policy posed by issues of essential human dignity can be seen most clearly in the area of freedom, security and justice.
The issues of asylum, immigration, the criminal justice system and the balance between freedom and security require consensus on justice, and, more often than not, the harmonisation of legislation.
We have said many times that we seek the parallel development of these three components.
This is particularly important to us, and I therefore refute the allegation that Parliament needs to curb our ambition to create more security because it would be achieved at the expense of freedom.
This is a concern we have in common, so for goodness’ sake let us forget this fallacy that Parliament houses the defenders of liberty while the Council is out to curtail our fundamental freedoms.
We are simply trying to fight crime more effectively by establishing in a legal instrument, which we are currently discussing and which may be amended, the principle that what can be done nationally can also be done on a European scale, subject to the same conditions.
Retained data have shed light on many drug crimes and terrorist crimes in our Member States.
Naturally, if the legal basis – which we shall be examining, as I said before – is such that we find ourselves partly within the first pillar, in such an eventuality the Council will have no problem in discussing the matter with Parliament, and I shall gladly come before the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs once again to discuss it in detail.
Yes, I want to discuss the legal basis, but I also said that we should not waste our time with interminable discussions, because criminals could not care less about the legal basis and simply want to benefit from the absence of links between national systems and from the lack of a raft of clearly regulated mechanisms.
The Council will therefore analyse the Commission’s legal opinion and the new Commission proposal, if there is one.
I believe that the external dimension of the common justice and home affairs policy is extremely important in the context of both the immigration component and the anti-crime component.
I consider it essential that, in the Mediterranean situation, in the Balkan situation, we take account of the external dimension of the justice and home affairs policy, because it has a direct effect on our Member States’ home affairs policies, and so I plead once more for a truly common policy on asylum and immigration.
As I said to you before, with regret, regarding the progress made in 2004, these are only minimal rules, but it is good that they actually exist.
We need the Constitutional Treaty in order to develop a genuine common policy on asylum and immigration, and the external dimension will certainly have to be given pride of place.
I have often said that there is no longer a boundary between external and internal security, because all their component elements interact; this is the case in respect of both crime and immigration.
These are two separate policy areas which are dealt with by the same configuration of the Council.
If a new treaty enters into force tomorrow, we shall apply its rules.
Nor do we engage in salami-slicing of our objectives, because they are clearly established.
They will be even more clearly established as soon as we have the action plan that makes it possible to transpose the Hague programme.
We asked the Commission to work quickly, because I should like us to adopt the action plan that emerges from the Hague programme under the Luxembourg Presidency in June.
We shall then know exactly what goals to pursue, even though we might have to adapt the action plan once the Constitutional Treaty is in force.
When I say that we should have common values in Europe and that racism must be categorically condemned, some people react by accusing us of stifling freedom of expression.
This is a different type of argument from those in the other areas I spoke about before, but there is still a balance to be struck.
I did not put this draft on the agenda for this week’s meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, because a number of Member States, especially the new Member States, said that they would like to be able to examine in detail the draft that the older members had already examined prior to enlargement.
To be even more explicit, in order to have adequate security we do not just need safeguards for people’s fundamental rights, but also actual development of the European area of justice.
Clearly, on one side there are calls to harmonise or to try to bring some unity to certain basic principles – we shall be dealing with the subject of procedural rights in criminal proceedings in a few minutes – and I am highly in favour of this attempt at harmonisation, but then, of course, others say there is a need to consider the great difference in traditions, history and culture in our legal systems.
We shall certainly always work hard for these three great areas to develop in parallel in a balanced way.
Regarding fundamental rights in particular, it has been asked what the group of Commissioners that President Barroso announced to Parliament is doing.
I do not want the citizens of Europe to be told that after three years of debate we have not succeeded in duly affirming the fundamental principle that racism must not be allowed into Europe.
I have said it several times already and I shall say it again: in a few weeks’ time our proposal will be ready to be examined by the Council.
These authorities have formed a body of undoubted expertise, including technical expertise, and have given appraisals that are often critical of the Commission’s proposals.
Here too our approach should be and will continue to be balanced: minimum procedural rights are essential, and they are a first step.
These approaches are two sides of the same coin, and they will form the guidelines for Europe’s policy as far as the Commission is concerned. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place during the May part-session. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Buitenweg on procedural rights in criminal proceedings throughout the European Union.
Our proposal has two main elements.
The first aims to set common minimal standards as regards certain procedural rights applying to criminal proceedings throughout the European Union.
The areas where common minimal standards are proposed at this first stage are: firstly, access to legal advice both before and during trial; secondly, access to interpretation and translation free of charge; thirdly, ensuring that appropriate attention is given to persons who are not capable of understanding or following the proceedings; and fifthly, the right for foreign suspects to communicate with consular authorities, and a letter of rights notifying the suspected person of their rights in writing.
A decision was taken to draw up proposals relating to these five rights initially, because they are of particular importance in the context of mutual recognition.
Finally, mutual recognition can only operate effectively in a spirit of confidence.
This proposal for a framework decision will strengthen the mutual trust that Member States have in each other’s criminal justice systems.
My group voted against the European Arrest Warrant back in 2001, one of the reasons being that no provision had been made for the rights of suspects who, thanks to this new regulation, could be handed over to other EU Member States so much more easily.
We are now in a position to end the political battle that was waged then, because we are in any event united in our opinion that the procedural rights of suspects are a necessary addition to the European Arrest Warrant.
Many Members have very closely examined this topic and I will have to thank Mr Costa for his proposals from afar.
That is why I think that in order to combat crime effectively, real trust is needed between Member States, and trust requires clear agreements about the rights of suspects.
Needless to say, as the Commissioner has already stated, many rights are already regulated by the ECHR, but they are conceived as principles of justice and have to be fleshed out in the different Member States.
The Commission proposal is much more specific.
This Commission proposal does, as the Commissioner has already stated, confer additional rights; a suspect is entitled to legal assistance during the entire criminal justice procedure, to an interpreter and to a translator.
I hope that the Commissioner will hurry things along in this respect.
There appear to be a few Member States that are keen to retain the option of not applying these fundamental rights of suspects to citizens suspected of committing serious and complex forms of crime, in particular terrorism.
As rapporteur, I should like to see a compromise being struck, but I personally take the view that Member States will be far less inclined to extradite people to other Member States if they fear that the minimum rights, the minimum standards, are not being respected.
As the Commissioner stated a moment ago, with this proposal, the Commission intends to eliminate any potential discrepancies between procedural safeguards that apply to suspects in Member States.
As Mrs Buitenweg, the rapporteur, has already mentioned, there is no denying that this framework decision, thanks to the codification of minimum standards, can, and indeed will, make a useful contribution to the level of judicial protection within the European Union.
Secondly, there is no denying that this framework decision can have a positive bearing on the mutual trust in each other’s criminal justice systems, something that is all the more important in the light of the enlarged European Union.
The EU Treaty contains no explicit legal base for criminal court procedures, although it does provide one for the harmonisation of criminal law itself.
Moreover, this proposal contains basic standards that are already enshrined in the ECHR.
According to calculations done in my own country, the Netherlands, the Commission proposal will cost at least some EUR 40 million per annum to cover the cost of translation, the storage of visual material and the assessment of the new system.
The Commission has made it very clear, though, that this far-reaching proposal should not affect national legislation of the different Member States that is designed to combat terrorism.
That is why I am finishing off with the sound compromise I struck with the rapporteur under Amendment 51, in which reference is made to the rights of the ECHR, and I am happy with that.
I would urge everyone here in this House to support that amendment, rather than Amendment 4, for the sake of wide support for the report, because I am not only considering the need for the report to be widely supported, but also the Socialists, the Socialist Governments in Spain and in Great Britain.
We should, in fact, have undertaken a minimal harmonisation of procedural rights as a parallel move accompanying the creation of the European arrest warrant.
It is therefore imperative to establish common rules which guarantee the assistance of a lawyer and the right to interpretation services as well as protection, particularly of the most vulnerable.
The main key to the establishment of a genuine European area of security and justice lies in the protection and promotion of the fundamental rights of European citizens.
We are demonstrating our will to uphold this political vision of an area of freedom, security and justice by strengthening the Commission’s proposal, which establishes these minimal guarantees of individual rights in criminal proceedings.
We also want to guarantee the right to the assistance of a lawyer within 24 hours and full briefing of suspects, who should be informed of the charges against them and of the rights available to them in a notification written in a language they understand.
Although it may be necessary to create special provisions for suspects in connection with investigations into terrorist acts, the rights of each individual must still be respected.
The establishment of a genuine European area of justice is a priority.
The ALDE Group welcomes Mrs Buitenweg’s report on the proposal for a Council framework decision on criminal judicial cooperation.
Procedural safeguards are an indispensable supplement in an area where cooperation between Member States’ judicial and law enforcement agencies is ever closer.
The ALDE Group had certain ideas in relation to this proposal.
We are very happy that the rapporteur has taken most of these ideas on board.
Mrs Buitenweg, the ALDE Group will support you and your report. &#160;&#160; .
The obligation to extradite contained in the European arrest warrant must, once and for all, be balanced by clearly defined rights for the accused; in the EU, common minimum standards for rights in criminal proceedings must be laid down.
If the concern is to guarantee minimum human rights, then the apparatus already exists under the European Convention on Human Rights at its Court in this city.
The scandalous treatment of Dinesh Sakaria in Sweden, the spectacle made of the British plane-spotters in Greece, and the appalling conviction of Kevin Sweeney in the Netherlands convinces UK citizens that they are best served by maintaining the procedures and bulwarks of their common-law-based system rather than ever being tempted to trade it in for the flawed continental model.
If these things can happen – and they have happened – with these countries supposedly adhering to the European Convention on Human Rights, then moving the coordination from the Council of Europe to the European Commission will contribute nothing to the effective guarantee of individual rights in real terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, of course some minimum standards are desirable.
I am sure that we all believe in justice: justice for suspected criminals and justice for the people we represent; and human rights for suspected criminals but also human rights for all our constituents.
We are experiencing an international crisis and we can allow nothing to undermine our fight against terrorism and those that perpetrate it.
Those on the left of this House offer little help to those who need it, especially to those who need our protection and our support. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has welcomed the Commission’s proposal and believes that the amendments tabled by the rapporteur have been scrupulously drafted.
They are in fact based on a fundamental principle concerning the procedural safeguards that are to be harmonised and offered to all those charged in criminal proceedings throughout the European Union: if criminal proceedings are organised at a European scale, then citizens’ rights should also be guaranteed at that level.
Then comes the rub: the issue of exceptions, or the possibility – called for by some of my fellow Members – for the Member States not to apply these guarantees to particularly serious forms of crime such as terrorism.
The compromise reached in Amendment 4 to recital 8 recognises it, that is, the need for a legal and ethical threshold that the Member States must never cross, not even to combat terrorism: it is a question of human rights, the International Convention on Human Rights and the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I therefore consider the argument put forward by a fellow Member regarding the high costs that this reform would generate to be rather ignoble.
It is a concern too far, in part because it is very difficult to put a financial value on protecting human rights.
At the same time, there is the whole of the great European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
When I listened earlier to Luxembourg’s representative, I was very concerned, as I think it important that the Council’s representative should, in all situations, speak up for full human rights and the right to a fair trial.
The court proceedings should separate the innocent from the guilty, which means ensuring that there is adequate support in that connection.
Instead, further measures will be required. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the framework decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings within the European Union, which we are discussing today, is – according to the Council – to be limited to cases in which the European Arrest Warrant applies.
I can tell the Members of the Socialist Group that it follows that these boundaries are not being transgressed, and that the compromise proposal does all that they have required. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wanted to begin by congratulating Mrs&#160;Buitenweg on her excellent report.
It is absolutely indispensable that we go still further today and ensure that the extradition system applies, without loss of respect for individual rights, to all suspects, including those suspected of crimes relating to terrorism.
This type of measure would serve to give more substance to the right to a fair trial, a principle enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights.
It is an absolutely indispensable step in the direction of greater mutual trust between Member States and towards the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
It is an essential condition for the construction of a European judicial area, to which all of us, I am sure, are firmly committed. &#160;&#160; – With this last speech the debate on this report is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the report by Panayiotis Demetriou on the European Police College.
The Commission is favourable in principle to some of the amendments on the table and will support them in its negotiations with the Council.
In fact, Parliament itself, as part of the budgetary authority, realised that representation is ethically unsound, given that Parliament is responsible for granting discharge in respect of the agency’s budget. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate of the two previous items, especially the statements by Minister Frieden and Commissioner Frattini, has confirmed and substantiated the position that the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is a fundamental policy and core objective of the European Union.
The contribution of the European Police College to the Union's efforts to develop the area of freedom, security and justice during its successful three-year period in operation is beyond doubt.
The application by the College of common police training programmes, based on the experience of all the national police academies in the Member States of the Union, is accepted by everyone as having resulted in the adoption at pan-European level of common training standards and methods.
We do not appear to persist in this opinion; Commissioner Frattini has set out his view, which we respect, but I am sure we can find a middle way.
Both these bodies agree, basically, with the amendments by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and approve the proposal as amended and unanimously approved by our committee, with the exception of the point referred to by Commissioner Frattini in connection with the participation of the European Parliament with observer status, should it so wish, on the College's governing board.
I believe that the amendments proposed by the Committee on Civil Liberties improve the proposal.
If we are to get serious about combating crime in Europe, and if we are to declare war on organised cross-border crime in particular, our police services and law enforcement authorities will need a facility in which they can be trained.
For a start, the EUR&#160;4.5 million per annum to be allocated from 2007 onwards is dependent on the new financial framework, which has yet to be adopted.
Thirdly, its Governing Board can adopt only a provisional establishment plan and draft budget, in any case until such time as Parliament, in December, adopts the overall Budget for the coming year.
With their usual fruitful cooperation the Committee – led by the rapporteur – incorporated our amendments into its report, and for that I warmly thank them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report and thanking him for the fruitful cooperation which enabled us to work out a number of compromises together so as to arrive at this draft, which I hope the House will approve on Wednesday.
Accordingly, I am under few illusions as to the fate that awaits this opinion of the European Parliament at the hands of the Council, since Parliament – alas – still has a purely consultative role.
We shall have to wait for some time before any further progress can be made in this field.
There is no central point in the EU where policemen can go to find their contact in, for example, Lithuania, Portugal, the UK or Italy.
Could you, Commissioner, therefore propose a directive, budget or whatever is necessary to set up a central information point where the names and telephone numbers of the people responsible in the 25 countries can be reached quickly before criminals escape? &#160;&#160; .
The evaluation of December 2003 showed that there is no need to extend the target group to lower-ranked police officers and other law enforcement services.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the joint debate on two recommendations for second reading on road transport by Helmuth Markov: ‘Social legislation relating to road transport activities’ and ‘Harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport’.
That means that these two directives must help to balance road safety, social provision and equality in competition against one another, something about which our various groups have very definitely divergent views, one stressing one thing and another putting the emphasis elsewhere.
The way the Committee voted did, however, show beyond any doubt that there is nevertheless a broad consensus among this House’s transport policy-makers as regards the rest and driving times regulation, which was adopted by two thirds of the votes, while the control directive received almost four fifths.
The driving time we have stipulated – 90 hours in two weeks, but no more than 56 hours in a week – is still a considerable one.
At the same time, though, we have ensured that, when considered over the space of two weeks, it can be regarded as an acceptable amount from the point of view of safety.
If we are to have a regulation on rest and driving times, we must at least say what driving time actually is, and so this House has made a great effort to make up for those things that are lacking in ways that the legislator itself could have done.
Where rest periods are concerned, the majority in this House is of one mind; we want 12&#160;hours.
The Council did come up with a proposal on break times that I thought was a good one; although it was amended by the Committee, I regard the result as a workable variant.
It is cause for gratitude that this House has rightly, and by a substantial majority, endorsed the incorporation of vehicles under 3.5 tonnes within the scope of this directive; rightly, in our view, for this directive is not limited to categories of vehicles by weight, which, to some extent, the Council and the Commission wanted to tell us it was.
We have put forward a compromise proposal stating that we will allow an exemption within a radius of 60 km, which means that these vehicles can operate within this radius without a digital tachograph being fitted.
On the assumption that I have not misunderstood what was said in our debates with the Council, working time appears to be a major problem.
Having failed to get its regulation on the digital tachograph finished in time, the Council had originally incorporated these leftovers – as I like to call them – into the regulation on rest and driving times.
None of that makes any sense if there is no common definition of what serious offences are.
Such a definition is indispensable if we are to be able subsequently to analyse penalties in order eventually to equalise and harmonise them across the European Union, for it is not acceptable that something should be permitted in one Member State while being prohibited in another.
I would therefore like to call on the Council – which is not present, but will perhaps read this later on – to get a move on; we want this regulation and we want this directive, but not at any price.
The second lays down the rules for the implementation of social regulations relating to road transport activities.
I should like to remind you that the aim of these two proposals is to encourage fair competition between transport companies throughout the European Union and to improve road safety and the working conditions of professional drivers.
The European harmonisation of social legislation in the realm of road transport is under way.
This new legislation guarantees that drivers operating in a country other than their own must comply with minimum European standards.
The application of harmonised social rules is imperative, not only for the internal market and road safety but also as a means of guaranteeing minimum social rights for workers in the road transport industries.
In an area where Europe is sometimes criticised for its lack of action in the social field, we must make every effort to resolve an issue of such deep concern to workers in the road transport industries.
In this context, I should like to remind you of the three main aims of the Commission when it formulated its proposal on driving times and rest periods for professional drivers.
This is why we shall not be able why I personally, at the end of the day, am unable to accept any of the amendments that would make this instrument too complex and hence difficult to apply.
Lastly, there is the need to update the rules in the light of developments in the road transport sector.
Secondly, we have to recognise that public services such as postal services and gas- and electricity-supply services have undergone considerable change.
In the view of the Commission, the current deadlines of 5&#160;May&#160;2005 for Member States being able to issue driver cards and 5&#160;August&#160;2005 for the requirement that new vehicles be equipped with a digital tachograph should remain in place.
All of the Member States have committed themselves in the common position of the Council to the scheduled dates and are already establishing training courses for inspectors.
The Commission’s objective is to enhance the quality and intensity of the checking efforts on the part of the Member States.
It has sought to develop a harmonised approach to penalties and a common definition of serious infringements.
The Commission can only support the reintroduction of this element into the draft.
Secondly, there is the common definition of several serious infringements.
This would be an improvement on the Council’s common position, which provides for a national enforcement strategy and a national point of contact with the other Member States.
This is an important matter, and I thank all the Members here today who wish to contribute to this major project. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I, too, would like to thank Mr Markov for his cooperation and also for the willingness to listen that he demonstrated in discussions that were certainly not always straightforward and in dealing with an over-abundance of amendments.
There may be doubt about whether this aim can be achieved by way of more comprehensive legislation, but one thing is clear – and that brings me back to something on which we are all agreed – that monitoring was and remains the most important thing.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism has done a good job.
I do not, of course, want to discuss all the amendments right now, but I would like to stress that our proposed date for the digital tachograph is intended to achieve legal certainty with what we regard as greater stability than what might otherwise come to pass if we were perhaps, in September, October or November, to adopt a directive that ought to have been applied in August of the same year.
It therefore appears to me that the proposed date of 2006/2007 makes the legal basis rather more secure, and so we have to be able to debate this date and send a clear message to the world at large.
It must be possible to check records covering the past 28 days in roadside checks.
The Regulation must also include a new category covering light commercial vehicles under 3.5 tonnes.
Let me add, Commissioner, that we are not talking here about the delivery of pizzas, for a pizza, if it is transported – as the Committee on Transport and Tourism has suggested – for over 60 kilometres, will be cold and inedible!
The only figures I can quote are the German ones: between 1991 and 2001, accidents involving small vans and resulting in personal injury rose by 103%.
If it is accepted, in principle, that over-tiredness kills and injures, then responsible rules are needed.
That is what the Committee wanted, and I hope that the Commission will, sooner or later, be able to come round to its way of thinking. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe attach a lot of importance to obtaining more effective control and enforcement of the rules on driving time and rest periods.
It is complicated because we have to find a suitable balance between, on the one hand, being able effectively to monitor compliance with the rules with a view to road safety and, on the other hand, the needs of the transport sector and of drivers being able to organise their work in a reasonably flexible way.
There are, however, a number of points on which my group disagrees with some of the conclusions contained in the report resulting from the vote in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
It would also be quite difficult for the police to know right away whether an ordinary van was being driven for a firm that needed to have a tachograph installed in it.
The proposal to include vehicles under 3.5 tonnes would therefore make monitoring very difficult.
It is proposed to exclude from the directive vehicles used in connection with a long list of public supply services, such as sewerage, electricity, water, gas etc.
Whether or not this proposal makes sense is questionable, but, if it is to be implemented, the exemption should, it has to be said, apply equally in the case of a private company commissioned by the public sector to carry out a task, for example under licence or following an invitation for tenders.
We have therefore tabled an amendment on this subject.
The results of the votes in the committee were very close in a number of areas, and it is therefore exciting to see the committee here in plenary where we need to have the qualified majority mobilised.
Subsequently, the issue will be one of whether we can reach a conciliation with the Council.
The ALDE Group would like us to arrive at a situation in which an uninterrupted period of rest of 11 hours is obtained, but we do not, however, think that the Council is right in thinking that the interrupted rest period needs only to be three plus nine hours.
The Council adheres, of course, to the view that tachographs should be installed from this year but, as matters now stand regarding adoption of the directive and the ability to install the tachographs at the present time, it seems a bit over the top to insist on this date, and we in the ALDE Group are able to support a postponement.
I very much hope that, in the conciliation procedure, we shall find a solution regarding this directive that both meets the need for more effective monitoring and, at the same time, ensures that drivers have sufficient flexibility. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directives we are debating today are of key importance in three respects, namely with regard to the regulations in force throughout Europe that provide social protection for employees, with regard to road safety and with regard to competition.
I hope that the decision Parliament makes during the vote on Wednesday will be the right one, and that Members vote in favour of humane working conditions, road safety and fair competition – not only between the individual businesses that use the roads, but also between the various modes of transport.
No&#160;one can possibly drive for this long without using caffeine or other substances, some of which may well be illegal.
It is a regrettable fact that the Council is quite clearly on the wrong side of the fence on this matter.
I would ask you to support our position, in so doing acting in the interests of road safety, increasing Europe’s social credibility and making it possible for more frequent checks to be carried out in high-risk areas, where the demands we make of road safety are higher.
We should let the whole world know that the European Parliament is the social conscience of the European Union. &#160;&#160; .
However, a lorry from Birmingham takes much longer to reach the target.
So shout to him and say: ‘This will take my truck off the road!’ or, in short, ‘Truck off!’. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, first of all I would like to thank Mr Markov for the work that has been done and the compromises that have been found in several problematical areas.
Likewise, I would also like to thank you, Commissioner, for your thorough commentary.
The social rights of employees, safe road travel and corporate interests – those are the main aspects which this proposal has dealt with.
I do not think, however, that the Committee on Transport and Tourism’s version is now balanced in all these aspects.
We know that the new European Union Member States are also, unfortunately, peripheral states, and therefore they are already less competitive in objective terms in the business of road haulage, since they are located far from the most concentrated areas of the market.
All these proposals, in my opinion, are designed not to combat so-called ‘wage dumping’, as it is expressed in the justification, or ‘social dumping’, as it is currently known, carried out by businessmen in the new Member States, but in fact in order to preserve the existing division of the market.
Article 11 of the directive currently also lays down a guarantee for participants in a collective agreement between social partners already in force.
In addition, it will create a reason for express companies to enter into agreements with self-employed drivers, which in turn will worsen social protection for these people and will in fact have only adverse consequences for safety on the roads, too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Vice-President of the Commission, I should first like to pick up on a comment you made towards the end of your speech.
I believe the Commissioner’s out-of-hand rejection of some of the proposals contained in the Markov report was somewhat over-hasty.
These proposals should therefore be backed.
I would therefore ask you to go along with our proposals and to set a sensible deadline. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by explaining to the House that in his opening remarks my fellow countryman, Mr Nattrass, was confusing the application of the Working Time Directive to the transport industry with this directive.
I welcome this directive because, as the Commissioner said, the current proposals are 20&#160;years old.
Therefore it is vital for road safety to have a consistent set of rules across the European Union.
However, it is important that the legislation be workable and enforceable, not only simply, but also consistently across the EU.
Therefore, I welcome Parliament’s proposals to require new vehicles to be fitted with digital tachographs at least from 2006.
I also question whether it would be possible to scrutinise the application of the Working Time Directive in this directive, given that most of the records would be held back at base and not in the lorry concerned. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, road transport has become a mess of an industry which genuinely needs tidying up.
Drivers’ crude working conditions have been discussed, as have the consequences for road safety.
We are in favour of fair competition, and road hauliers should of course pay the real price for decent transport and not simply pass all the consequences of their activities onto society.
That is the form of competition we want to see in Europe.
It must be the best form of transport that is able to carry the day, not the most brazen or the most ruthless. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as I said when this regulation first came before this House, the concept of this proposal is in my view impractical, untenable and unenforceable.
I would like to focus my contribution to this debate on the very essence of what the proposal means to people in my constituency, which I am sure is mirrored across the whole of the European Union.
At present bus services in rural areas, where many people are elderly and rely on public transport, are run by small and medium-sized companies, which the EU claims to be the backbone of the economy.
Proposals for rest hours will mean increased cost to the consumer and industry alike, reduced services and, in some cases, no service at all.
This proposal takes no account of the need for flexibility in key areas of the transport sector, pays scant regard to the consumer and is contemptuous of the need for Europe’s industry to remain competitive.
I therefore have no hesitation in urging this House to support our key amendment to reject the proposal in its entirety. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, I too should like to make use of the short time available to me to thank the rapporteur for his professional and competent work.
I agree with the Commissioner when he says that this is an extremely important report.
If the proposals it contains are implemented, it is safe to assume that they will bring about a number of improvements, not only with regard to the situation on Europe’s roads in terms of social policy and labour law, but also, and quite definitely, with regard to road safety.
That does mean, though, that I am dissatisfied with the position adopted by the Committee on Transport and Tourism in respect of the Regulation on driving times and rest periods.
Some Members have already mentioned the compulsory installation of the digital tachograph under the 3.5 tonne mark.
Equally, it is not viable to install digital tachographs in existing vehicles, because this is often technically impossible, and therefore also undesirable.
That is also the Council’s view, and I hope that Parliament adopts the same view by rejecting the first part of Amendment 62.
Road checks up to 28 days do not benefit road safety and also lead to unnecessary bureaucracy.
The Council proposal is better in this respect too, and I therefore hope that Mr Markov will be somewhat more obliging towards the Council in those areas.
In the run-up to the plenary vote, I should like to urge you to reject the proposal on the said points, because those measures unnecessarily push up the costs for what are often small businesses.
Today’s two draft reports, on social legislation relating to road transport and on the monitoring of its implementation, will play a key role in this regard.
If we were to succeed in using European legislation to ensure that practices relating to driving and rest periods, which are often nothing short of scandalous, are conducted in a more orderly fashion, this would inevitably mean that the costs of employing people to work on the roads and on the railways would become more comparable, and that would be quite something.
Compliance with this legislation must be monitored, and such monitoring must be made possible.
The second of these two concerns can be addressed by means of digital tachographs that are less vulnerable to tampering, yet what will then be needed is for the national police forces to monitor these devices by means of systematic road-side checks.
It will also be necessary to ensure compliance with driving and rest periods.
Important as it is to ensure that framework regulations relating to driving times in road and rail transport are brought into line, the two Markov reports pursue a further goal, namely road safety.
The Member States must put in place effective checks to remedy this dangerous situation.
Perhaps the Council would then be present at debates such as the one we are holding today. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Rack.
It is essential that we distinguish between each of these cases in order not to penalise long-distance drivers nor the legitimate interests of the peripheral countries. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the President of the Commission, Mr&#160;Barroso, has assured us on a number of occasions, speaking both before this House and elsewhere, that he aims to reduce the number of EU regulations by as much as 25%, as there are a great many such regulations and a large number of them are unnecessary.
The Members of this House have always applauded such statements, as many of us are aware that we are faced with EU legislation that is developing imperialistic tendencies and attempting to regulate everything under the sun.
The regulation we are currently debating, on the harmonisation of social legislation, is a clear example of this way of thinking and acting, and there are a number of points I should like to make in this regard.
The Members of this House have made it quite clear that it would be enormously difficult to put such a system into practice.
Given all these factors, I believe that this is exactly the kind of regulation the European Union could manage very well without.
First of all, I would like to return to a general idea shared, I think, by many of you: that it is not enough to define rights, but that we must also create the conditions within which these rights can be exercised.
That is very important.
Our discussion has focused in particular on two subjects: vehicles weighing less than 3.5 tonnes.
The Commission is prepared to examine this issue in depth.
If you wish, I will suggest that we include a clause to see how we can respond, if need be, to any needs it may seem necessary to meet.
I believe that, in this field, we need to act intelligently and pragmatically.
If we need to go further, Mr Markov, I am not saying no , but we do need to see the scope of these rules.
It is a problem that may give rise to debate, I realise, but I would like to give you some specific details that may help you to understand better why the Commission remains very keen for this system to be implemented rapidly.
The Council insisted on confirming this date in the legal text on driving time and rest periods.
I think we need, and I am saying this in all sincerity, to send a clear signal to the industry and to the Member States.
Type-approval certificates for digital tachographs were granted to ACTIA in June&#160;2004, to VDO Siemens in October&#160;2004 and to several card manufacturers.
TACHOnet, a system that makes it possible to ensure that each driver has only one driver card, has been in operation since August&#160;2004.
All the main vehicle manufacturers have started to test the digital tachograph in their vehicles and may be ready before the introduction deadline of August&#160;2005.
I would like to thank Parliament and I am reminded again of how advantageous it is to be able to have a dialogue between the Council and Parliament.
Annex - Commission’s position The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 14, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 29, 32, 36, 37 and 40.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 7, 11, 12, 13, 16, 18, 28, 30, 33, 34, 38, 39, 41 and 43.
The Commission can, in principle, accept Amendments 3, 5, 9, 10, 15, 22, 27, 38 and 43.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 2, 4, 6, 8, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74 and 75. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
I think, and the Committee on Transport and Tourism’s report bears this out, that short sea shipping is an issue on which there is broad agreement between Parliament, the Member States and the Commission.
I would like to draw attention to certain key aspects of your report, Mr Navarro.
The intermodal dimension of this new definition could be used to supplement the modal definition set out in 1999 and commonly accepted across Europe.
The efficiency of ports is, of course, crucial for short sea shipping, and the adoption of a new proposal for a directive on access to the market of port services should help us, although I have taken note of Parliament’s concern to pay careful attention to the way in which we finalise this text.
One effective way of promoting the intermodal image of short sea shipping lies in the business-oriented work of short sea promotion centres.
The motorways of the sea are a special form&#160;–&#160;I would call them a brand&#160;–&#160;of short sea shipping.
The Marco Polo programme, and in particular the future Marco Polo II programme, will have a crucial part to play in implementing the motorways of the sea and will be able to provide additional financial resources to eligible projects.
Nevertheless, we will have to redouble our efforts to achieve better results in the future.
I am sure that it will bring a great deal to the whole freight transport policy, which remains an essential part of our great single European market.
I therefore thank you, Mr Navarro, and I am now keen, Mr&#160;President, to hear the comments that will follow the report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am a newly elected Member of this Parliament, and this own-initiative report is therefore my first report as an MEP.
I would particularly like to thank the administrators of the European Parliament, Mr&#160;Darmis and Mr&#160;Préat, and my parliamentary assistants, Mr&#160;Caballé and Mr&#160;Polack.
Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the services of the Commission’s Energy and Transport DG and to the main professional players working in the sectors concerned, in particular the ship-owners, logistics experts and ports that played an active role in our consultations.
As you know, the devil is in the detail and, if the European Parliament is going to be effective in its supervisory role, it will in future need to benefit from increased levels of in-house expertise, in particular so that the independence and impartiality of its Members can be guaranteed.
First of all, let me remind you of the context surrounding the issue of the development of maritime transport in Europe.
In its White Paper on European transport policy for 2010, published in 2001, the European Commission highlighted the important role to be played by short sea shipping in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and stressed the need to simplify the regulatory framework.
The European Parliament supported these proposals for short sea shipping in its report on the White Paper, adopted on 2&#160;January&#160;2003.
The rapporteur for that report was Mr&#160;Izquierdo Collado.
However, there are a number of obstacles to the growth of short sea shipping.
This report was approved unanimously by the members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Our consultation work enabled us to reach compromises on crucial points.
The aim of this amendment is to bring the definition of short sea shipping in recital A, in which we included passenger transport and inland waterways, into line with that in recital C, in which we neglected to do so.
My amendment therefore adds the words ‘and passengers’ and ‘or inland waterway’ to recital C, so that the definition of short sea shipping is the same throughout the report.
Secondly, short sea shipping is one of the solutions that will enable us to reconcile protection of our natural heritage with economic and social development in our regions.
That is why this report proposes, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, that consideration should be given to the option of recognising that high-priority projects in the field of short sea shipping, which plays an important part in improving regional cohesion within the EU, are services of general economic interest.
I hope I will be able to enjoy the widest possible support in Parliament on a subject as important as the growth of short sea shipping and of intermodal transport.
The Vice-President stated that the Commission had already taken a number of steps to promote short sea shipping, and I would ask him to regard the rapporteur’s report as a further invitation to engage in dialogue with a view to implementing further measures to promote this form of shipping.
A good debate on this issue was held in this House last year following a Commission initiative, but I have my doubts as to whether the Member States are doing their bit by proposing projects.
As far as the motorways of the sea are concerned, we only wish to support projects that are useful and workable, and our primary aim must be to ensure that new funding does not have a harmful impact on existing ferry and feeder links.
I would ask you to take action and to take on board the ideas contained in the report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament fully agrees with the approach Mr&#160;Navarro has taken in his own-initiative report.
The growth in short sea shipping needs to be considered, not in competition with the necessary investment in rail freight and road-rail transport, but in synergy with it.
I stress that, in maritime affairs, safety and respect for the environment must be of primary importance, with competition being secondary.
In conclusion, I believe that short sea shipping has a great future ahead of it in Europe, if it is run by seamen and states and not by large concerns that are only interested in pure profit, regardless of the economic, social and human cost. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the continent of Europe and my country, Greece, have something in common.
So we need to find a way to introduce a measure so that every ship which calls at a European port employs a number of European seafarers.
We do not want ships working in Europe with non-European seafarers while European seafarers are out of work.
There was a shipwreck in the Aegean and 82 people drowned, precisely because the crew had not been trained as provided for in the directive, which had not arrived.
That is what justice means and I would like the Commissioner to find a way for the work of European seafarers to be secured and not to disappear. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank Mr Navarro for his fine report and excellent cooperation.
Short sea shipping can play a positive and important role in an intermodal transport system if flanking measures are taken at different levels.
For example, in my view, we should not develop short sea shipping randomly, but we should carefully analyse the routes that need to be developed, in particular the ‘motorways of the sea’, in order to achieve the largest possible, positive impact.
Finally, we must at the same time make progress on the issue of emissions.
Road transport has been subjected to strict standards where pollution is concerned, but marine fuels are lagging behind somewhat, and so I am pleased that, coincidentally, the Hassi report, which aims to significantly reduce the sulphur content in marine fuels, certainly in the most sensitive zones, is also being voted on this week. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the development of short sea shipping has been stressed by the European Commission, culminating in the White Paper in 2001 on European transport policy, while the European Parliament, for its part, has always been an ardent supporter of all these initiatives.
The unanimous approval of the present report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism demonstrates precisely the huge interest of all of us in the development of short sea shipping.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Navarro, for the particular interest which he showed in island areas.
Islands are a very sensitive sector, with acute structural problems which are exacerbated during the winter months in particular, due to the difficulty in accessing them.
At the weekend, the opening of a new motorway between Toulon and Civitavecchia, near Rome, showed the way forward.
That is why I personally believe that short sea shipping has real potential - one of you said a great future&#160;- and should enable us to reduce congestion on our roads and thus to provide Europe with additional means of mobility.
I therefore want to thank Parliament, which has, in this report, contributed a number of elements that I very much hope will be implemented to create an even more ambitious policy regarding short sea shipping. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
