Application of the principle of equal pay for men and women (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Bauer, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, with recommendations to the Commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women.
rapporteur. - (SK) The gender pay gap is nothing new.
Between 1995 and 2006, according to Eurostat, the differences based on hourly earnings fell from 17 to 15%, and this is at a time when the majority of university graduates are now women.
The pay gap also has individual dimensions.
The question today concerns what the European Parliament can do to resolve the situation.
It does not therefore measure just direct discrimination but is an indicator of all of the related factors and all of the disadvantages which women suffer from before they enter the labour market and over the entire course of their professional careers.
The Commission announced that in 2008 it would be evaluating Community laws from the standpoint of their implications in respect of the pay gap and that it would be proposing necessary amendments.
It is significant that one of the participating law creating bodies has expressed a clear opinion that the laws in question must be amended quickly.
The report that we are about to vote on concerns a key issue, a fundamental principle of European law: the principle of equal pay for men and women in the workplace.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SK) I would like to offer my frank congratulations to Mrs Bauer on the proposed text.
In Germany, one of the largest Member States of the European Union, the pay differential in the private sector is 23%.
I would, in any case, call on the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in order to retain this clarity in Mrs Bauer's report, to withdraw its deleting amendments, which would further water down the report.
I must also reiterate that even in 1957, Article 119 of the Treaty of Rome contained the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work.
Today however, in the year 2008, women in the European Union earn on average 15% less than men, and in my home country Estonia they earn as much as 25% less than men.
The wage disparity significantly influences women's position in economic and social life, both during and after their active working lives.
The wage disparity between men and women often leads to differences in men's and women's pensions.
As a result, I welcome the position proposed in the report, that is, that the European Commission should present a legislative proposal concerning the examination of current legislation concerning the principles of equal payment for men and women by 31 December 2009.
As time has shown, this problem cannot be solved with European Union legislation alone.
Wage inequality has also remained stable since 2003, and has only changed by 1% since 2000.
We have also referred to the fact that women are doubly disadvantaged, because this wage inequality is translated into differences in pension rights and social standards, and we also have a tax and social system that continues to penalise women, in that, for example, unmarried couples and double-income families are still disadvantaged in many tax systems, such as in Germany.
Why do we not make use of the fact that we have these gender requirements to encourage the Member States to make efforts to resolve this shameful pay gap.
In some countries, such as Portugal, where unemployment is very high, average pay differences between men and women have increased, exceeding 25% in the private sector and meaning that poverty still has a female face, including among the retired.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the draft report on equal pay for women and men contains some legitimate facts on equal pay for work of equal value.
The problem of unequal remuneration is therefore an element of discrimination against the weak.
Since the Community was established in 1957 - as has already been said several times - the principle has been enshrined in the Treaties of Rome as a directly applicable right.
I congratulate Mrs Bauer on her report. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
It is unacceptable that women earn 15% less than men and that, in the private sector, this difference can be up to 25%.
It also concerns discrimination in terms of retirement age, an issue that the European Commission has already looked at, and which I believe must be acknowledged.
As the radicals, we have, together with Emma Bonino, sought in every way possible to stress to public opinion, to the government, to the opposition and to the parties, that this structure must be removed.
Thanks to the European Commission, on 13 November the Court of Justice at last ruled that this discrimination is illegitimate and violates the Treaties and Community laws.
Italy claimed that it was justified by its objective of eliminating the existing socio-cultural discrimination against women - in other words, discrimination on the labour market does exist.
In my view, this measure in particular also requires intervention, because it could be eliminated at European level. (SV) Mr President, I wish firstly to thank Mrs Bauer for an important and constructive report, which I fully support.
I would like to say that women are not weak.
Despite the fact that women generally have a higher education, they earn on average 15% less than men for the same or similar work.
I appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur, Edit Bauer, to find a balanced approach towards formulating recommendations for the Commission and improving the framework of EU laws, particularly their effective enforcement.
The Member States must implement a consistent information campaign aimed at raising awareness among employers and employees of the existing or potential differences in pay on the labour market in the EU.
Thanks to the European Parliament's recommendation in this report, for which I congratulate the rapporteur Mrs Edit Bauer, I believe that the European Commission, in cooperation with the European Parliament and the Member States, will draw up laws that will indeed ensure equal pay for men and women. (RO) Fellow Members, this report is perhaps the most serious document we have drafted concerning the pay gap.
Work carried out at home and in the black economy will continue to be performed, especially by women, without any pay gap as they do not even receive a salary for this work. - (CS) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I consider the report of Edit Bauer to be a great success.
I am therefore very much in favour of the idea that Article 29 of Directive 2006/54 should be extended to include precise instructions on the application of principles of equality. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the report by Mrs Bauer does not need any additional comment on our part in order to show the path which needs to be followed to abolish a phenomenon of which society should be ashamed and which creates a reproduction cycle of injustice, with children in a family seeing their mother doing the same job as their father and being paid less and female colleagues seeing their male colleagues working like them and being paid less.
Bringing up children, changes of job or less working time puts women in a situation of constant structural delay.
The concept of equal payment for equal work cannot be distorted by a stereotypical approach to gender and social roles, which have previously significantly affected people's choices of profession and education, while maternity leave or family career breaks cannot be grounds for discriminating against women on the employment market.
The aim of reducing the pay gap must be fully implemented in employment regulations, and regular audits on equal pay and the threat of sanctions should put an end to all kinds of discrimination, particularly gender discrimination. (NL) Mr President, I am grateful to Mrs Bauer for her excellent report.
In fact, last Saturday, I read in The Times that the difference in wages between men and women in the United Kingdom has increased to 21.7% in the private sector and to 13.8% in the public sector.
Mrs Bauer makes a large number of recommendations in the resolution that she submitted, which is great, but there are two priorities in my view.
Improving this situation would have a positive impact on improving the economic independence of women.
The average proportion of women in the governments of the Member States and in their parliaments is less than 30%.
Our representation in the European parliament is 31%, which is just a little higher than the critical mass we need to highlight gender-related problems effectively.
It is worrying that, since 2003, we have not managed to reduce this 15% pay gap.
We are therefore also expectant in this regard. (BG) My congratulations to Edit Bauer on the excellent work she has done on the recommendations on equal payment between men and women.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Bauer once again on her skilful presentation of the problems and the solutions she has outlined.
They enjoy different pension rights and security issues and sometimes the inequalities are not just gender-based, although I appreciate that this report is about gender, and certainly my concern is that in the current situation this problem may get worse, rather than better. (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, there is a difference of 15% between salaries received by women and those received by men for carrying out the same work.
Commissioner, while women are on maternity leave, the average annual percentage used to calculate the benefit relating to these periods produces a financial loss, in spite of the importance of this period in terms of social welfare.
Above all, I believe that there must be no discrimination among children right from birth. (LT) I can only repeat that as far back as 1974 documents were adopted obliging Member States to pay men and women equally for the same job.
However, although more than 30 years have passed, the situation has not changed.
In a few years it became clear that in order to receive an equal annuity from these funds women must pay 35% more contributions than men, as they live longer.
I believe this is the way to change the gender stereotypes of employers, especially in the private sector.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for a highly professional report. (PL) Mr President, in discussing this important issue, it is typical that there have been only two male interventions on this issue.
A result of pay inequality is also inequality in social provision, particularly as regards pensions.
The main question is therefore enforcing the law in practice. (PL) There are no grounds for discriminating against women in this respect, and it is not a matter which is open to discussion.
Perhaps this model could be extended to other sectors. (PL) Mr President, I would like to join those male voices, which unfortunately have been so few in the present debate, and which recognise that public debate and putting such an important matter as pay and equal pay for women and men on the political agenda is one of the most important matters guaranteed and rights guaranteed in national and European law.
I should like all the same to emphasise that we have had a solid legislative base since 1975 and especially since 2006, and that the latter enabled me, in the years 1975 to 1980, to encourage women in my country who were being discriminated against to start legal proceedings against their employers, in particular from the public sector.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to state that the debate in Lille, in addition to the action plan, presented the individual Member States with a set of concrete actions in this area, some of which, I must say, were very radical and in my view capable of producing results.
As has already been said, there are many reasons for legislating but it is not possible, of course, to solve some economic problems through legislation.
This means that our task is clearly to help in ensuring that the existing legislation contributes towards solving this long-standing problem in such a way that the labour market becomes a fairer place.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 18 November 2008.
Written statements (Article 142) in writing. - The legal framework within the EU relative to equal pay for men and women is widespread.
The problem of the pay gap between men and women goes beyond the fundamental principle of equal pay for equal work.
It is unacceptable that a good number of Member States should still fail to devote special attention to the pay gap between the sexes, be that in public debates or in political programmes.
in writing. - I would like to congratulate Ms Bauer for her hard work in contributing vital recommendations to the European Commission on the application of the equal pay principle.
The pay gap has a major impact on the status of women in economic and social life and constitutes an obstacle to equal economic independence.
Differences can be seen in the income distribution between men and women: 20 percent of women, compared to 40 percent of men in Europe, receive a similar income distribution in the top-range of salaries.
Another glaring pay inequality lies in sectoral gender segregation, as half of jobs in three sectors are male dominated.
Finally, the over-representation of women - 30 percent - in part-time positions affects labour market contributions.
The report on the gender pay gap outlines many specific ways the EU can tackle this problem.
Another way we can help to solve is problem is to add a specific reference to pay discrimination in Article 26 (Prevention of discrimination) of Directive 2006/54/EC.
It is simply unacceptable that women in the EU earn on average 15% less than men.
