Therefore, I voted differently on Amendment 17 in Article 19, Amendment 22, Amendment 24 and also after citation 4 in point 10.
In my view, we in the European Parliament and the European Union need to ensure that all countries aspiring to membership of the European Union demonstrate compliance with the Copenhagen criteria.
I think that it is very important in this connection to ensure that the rights of women and children are implemented in any country that wants to join the European Union.
In particular, I would like to highlight the border dispute between Cyprus and Turkey, which has still not been settled this year, and the illegal occupation of Cyprus, which has not yet been brought to an end.
During the debate on this subject yesterday, some of the speakers were talking nonsense.
At times, we are tempted to believe that this is a phenomenon that takes place on the fringes of our society when, in reality, violence against women is carried out above all within the home.
I therefore hope that, from this point forward, Parliament will take concrete measures to ensure that all this does not remain just a good intention. (SV) Mr President, violence against women is a widespread problem throughout Europe and, indeed, the world.
The EU cannot continue to ignore these facts.
I therefore welcome the resolution on elimination of violence against women and call on the new Commission and the Council to also assume their share of the responsibility in this matter.
I will definitely work towards there being a priority, in the implementation of the Stockholm Programme, for combating violence against women. (PL) Mr President, I would like to stress that the subject of violence against women is extremely important, and I am very glad that the European Parliament has taken up this problem.
I would like to stress that I could not vote in favour of the final text of the resolution because of its ideological and radical attitude to the question of abortion, an attitude which conflicts with Christian values. (PL) Mr President, I would like to give an explanation of vote on the question of combating tobacco smoking, if possible.
Europe has no army, nor does it have any business being there.
To reiterate then, the piracy in the sea surrounding Somalia must be stopped, but not this way. (SK) The recommendations of the Council on non-smoking environments have the aim of assisting the Member States in their efforts to protect people more effectively from tobacco smoke.
Firstly, I have voted in favour of the Member States being given the authority in this area, on the one hand, because of the concept of subsidiarity and, on the other hand, because we do not have any authority.
The tobacco factory in Strasbourg has closed down, but people are still smoking.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - The UKIP admires volunteering and recognises the contribution to society it can make.
in writing. - The notion of volunteering is crucial in modern day societies.
The European Year of Volunteering is hence an important initiative.
The report tackles basic aspects, such as social support for the volunteer, focusing on issues like health, safety and training, and the distinction between paid work and voluntary activities.
Nevertheless, we believe that it needs to be ensured that volunteering does not come to substitute action by Member States, and that it must not be used as a way of fulfilling needs which are the responsibility of the social services.
Therefore, it requires due recognition and support from the European institutions, the Member States, local and regional authorities and various members of civil society, each according to their individual expertise.
I voted in favour of the draft report on the European Year of Volunteering for a number of reasons.
Bearing in mind the ever-growing interdependence of local communities in a globalised world and, at the same time, the worsening extent of individualistic behaviour, it is becoming vital to encourage social participation by citizens.
in writing. - Despite the request for a budget increase which I opposed and voted against at the committee stages, I nonetheless fully support the Report on the European Year of Volunteering overall.
We must ensure that the European Year of Volunteering is used as a platform for recognition of the contribution volunteers make to our communities, but also use this as an opportunity for us to better understand the barriers to volunteering and what we can do to help remove them and push volunteering forward.
I supported the report on the European Year of Volunteering in 2011, intended to promote dialogue and the exchange of good volunteering practice between authorities and stakeholders in our Member States.
I would like to ask the Government of Poland to follow the example set by the European Parliament and take action to increase financial support for the European Year of Volunteering.
The year 2011 will be the European Year of Volunteering, and will be intended to honour and distinguish volunteers and their contribution to society.
I would like to explain my vote on the report of Marco Scurria on the proposal for a Council Decision on the European Year of Volunteering.
In this regard, it will surely be wholly beneficial to dedicate the year 2011 to this theme.
It cannot remain a club which is closed to other European states, but it cannot open its doors indefinitely either.
In my view, what we therefore need to do is as follows: confirm the Balkans' suitability for EU membership; remember that enlargement and consolidation are inextricably linked; insist, in the case of Turkey, on compliance with the accession criteria; and, in the event of the negotiations' failure, propose a special association agreement.
Consequently, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and today in plenary, we have supported the amendments that were in line with our viewpoint.
Our vote in favour of the resolution is due to the fact that we do not want our position on Kosovo to be understood as a negative attitude to the enlargement process that the countries of the Western Balkans, Turkey and Iceland are now involved in.
The clear majority of EU citizens is against Turkey joining the EU and yet they must help to fund payments of billions of euros to Turkey in its role of official accession candidate.
Turkey is not a European country, either geographically or culturally, or in terms of safeguarding human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the Commission's 2009 enlargement strategy paper concerning the Western Balkan countries, Iceland and Turkey, since 6-15 years ago, Lithuania, together with the Baltic States and other Central and Eastern European countries, was in a similar situation to the candidate countries.
Turkey's rapprochement with the EU is changing this country in a good way and there is evidence of many positive steps to strengthen democracy and human rights.
Although we are not yet discussing EU membership for Ukraine, Moldova or the countries of the South Caucasus in concrete terms, such a prospect in the future can contribute to stability, economic strengthening, reduced corruption and the consolidation of the rule of law in these countries.
The EU enlargement process is taking place at the moment against the background of a harsh, far-reaching recession, which has hit both the EU and the countries involved in the enlargement process.
I welcome the progress made by Turkey in meeting the criteria for joining the European Union, especially the fact that this country signed the Intergovernmental Agreement for the Nabucco pipeline.
The number of crimes of domestic violence recorded by the Portuguese Association for Victim Support (APAV) has increased by 9% on the same period in 2008.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the elimination of violence against women as I believe that the Commission and the Council need to consolidate EU action in this area.
The EU urgently needs a more comprehensive policy on combating violence against women, specifically through the Commission drawing up a draft directive to ensure a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women, including trafficking.
I condemn all kinds of violence, but particularly when it is used against those who are in a more vulnerable position - socially, economically or emotionally - as children and women often are.
According to the Norwegian daily newspaper Aftenposten, 6% of young women in Sweden aged between 15 and 25 have been raped in one year.
There is no denying that violence by men against women is a violation of human rights and must be punished as such.
This Parliament must therefore remind Member States of their obligations to reinforce their legislations and policies to enable them to combat effectively all forms of violence against women.
I welcome the vote in the European Parliament on the resolution for eliminating violence against women on this International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.
The declaration of this day by the UN in 1999 and the adoption of this resolution today are valuable instruments for reminding national governments of their obligations arising from the international treaties concerning the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women.
I voted in favour of this resolution as violence against women is still a problem which is all too prevalent in Romania and worldwide, making it necessary to adopt urgent measures to combat this scourge.
Legislation is no longer the problem, but its application in the situation where many women are reluctant to report to the authorities the acts of violence they are subjected to, preferring to endure the suffering in silence.
in writing. - The ECR Group fully supports and stresses the great need to increase awareness and action to combat violence against women.
However, we do not support calls for an EU legal base and further directives (as in paragraphs 10, 11 and 27) to address the problem.
Furthermore, the ECR Group believes that the issues of sexual and reproductive choice and health rights are an issue of conscience for each individual Member and Member State to decide.
For these reasons, the ECR Group has chosen to abstain.
The coasts of Somalia have been constantly threatened by armed groups which not only fight for control of the coastal areas, but also carry out intolerable acts of piracy against other vessels, especially commercial, cargo, fishing, humanitarian aid and leisure boats.
in writing. - I am deeply proud to see the UK leading the work of the EU's first naval ESDP mission, Operation Atalanta, with a British Commander at its head and its operational HQ in the UK.
Atalanta's work in the protection of vessels delivering food aid to displaced persons in Somalia and in protecting vulnerable vessels off the Somali coast is vitally important.
I think that it is therefore crucial that, pending a political solution to the problem of Somalia, and while there continues to be instability in the area, we should follow a strategy of heightened security for Operation Atalanta, even reinforcing the latter in terms of the means of action open to forces deployed in this operation.
I voted against Resolution because I think that piracy is not a military problem but a development problem.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on a political solution to the problem of piracy off the Somali coast because sea piracy is a real problem and will continue to be a problem in waters off the Somali coast.
The EU must protect maritime vessels passing through this region by means of international negotiations and protection measures.
in writing. - We are in favour of robust international action to deal with piracy and have no doubt that the Royal Navy and allied navies from the US and other European nations will do a good job.
We are also deeply concerned by proposals for an ESDP training mission to Somalia at a time when the EUPOL mission in Afghanistan has been a failure and many European countries have been unwilling to provide troops and police for urgent training missions in Afghanistan.
This is my opinion on item 9 of this resolution.
The protection of human health and the quality of life of employees at their places of work and that of the general public forms the basis of this resolution, and that is why we voted in favour of it.
The policy of prohibition should be implemented in situations where it is shown to be necessary.
I believe that there is still a long way to go for each Member State in creating smoke-free environments, carrying out effective awareness campaigns and applying best practices for the implementation of Article 14 (measures to reduce demand are dependent on levels of addiction and those giving up smoking).
I therefore welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which removes part of item 9 from the original text, deleting the references to the production of tobacco.
The current bans are more than sufficient.
Health policy and, therefore, the protection of non-smokers clearly come under the authority of the Member States and should not be the subject of central regulations.
Passive smoking is a moral problem, because those who suffer have no choice.
Every year, smoking leads to the premature death of almost 100 000 Europeans.
I do support paragraph 13 of the resolution, in which the Commission is urged to put forward a legislative proposal for smoking to be banned in indoor workplaces and also on public transport.
Romania currently has approximately 1 600 hectares of tobacco plantations providing a production of roughly 3 000 tonnes.
However, a small volume of tobacco is grown in Romania, compared to the quantity required for Romanian processors, estimated at approximately 30 000 tonnes.
They believe therefore that Europe does not have its place in this debate and provides no added value in terms of guaranteeing European citizens healthy areas in all public places, at work and on public transport.
The proposal in the resolution dealing with non-smoking areas envisaged a considerable change - the imposition of a smoking ban in pan-European public institutions and public spaces.
in writing. - Given that over 40 million people die of hunger and poverty each year, including one child every six seconds, and that the global food crisis is one of the major threats to peace and security in the world, I have voted to support this timely Resolution.
There is a strange situation in the world today: a billion people are suffering from obesity, yet at the same time, a billion people are starving.
Our agricultural policy has been successful in the past, but it has no place in the future.
We Swedish Social Democrats have today chosen to vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the FAO World Summit on Food Security.
Extreme oscillations in prices and a dramatic increase in the price of food on the world market have also caused a global food crisis, which has made it even harder for the poor people of the world to obtain access to food.
We do not believe that these support measures and payments will help to bring increased security of food supply to developing countries in the long term.
No one can remain indifferent to this global problem when they know that 40 million people die every year of starvation and that a child dies of malnutrition every six seconds.
The European Union should therefore review its aid and development policies as a matter of urgency, and give greater precedence to supporting agriculture in developing countries, a sector which is the source of income for more than 70% of the workforce.
Although we do not agree with all the points made, we chose to give our approval to this resolution, as it underlines the importance of principles that we consider fundamental to a real fight against world hunger, particularly: Emphasising that 'the fight against hunger must be based on recognition of the right to food sovereignty', Recognising 'the right of local people in every country to control farmland and other natural resources vital to their food security'.
We are opposed to paragraph 9 of the resolution, however, which puts question marks against the continued liberalisation of EU agricultural policy.
