Subject: Expansion of the Schengen area Has the Council assessed the political consequences of the recent expansion of the Schengen area and its repercussions on relations between the EU and the neighbouring countries, whether or not EU Member States, which will now border on the expanded Schengen area?
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Four months have passed since the last expansion of the Schengen area on 21 December last year.
It means that the external borders of the Schengen area have moved to incorporate a larger number of European Union Member States.
We also managed to preserve all the elements required by the Schengen standards and regulations for effective border controls. (DE) Madam President, the expansion of the Schengen area in December last year has led to more, not less, security.
In the next stage, Switzerland and Liechtenstein are now to be included in the Schengen area, but I hear that there could be problems because some Member States may wish to enter reservations about the accession of Liechtenstein.
It took 22 minutes.
In answer to Mrs Doyle, I must admit I am not convinced that those are Schengen rules.
In accordance with Article 3 of this Regulation, the aid from these funds was also intended for certain islands and island Member States and for mountainous areas.
However, I would like to reiterate that the European Union cohesion policy provides for the Member States to deal with the problem pointed out by Mrs Panayotopoulos.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Mrs Goudin's question is not covered by the Council's competences.
In addition, as we know, the Lisbon Treaty is not yet in force.
It is a different treaty from the Constitutional Treaty but offers some similar or even identical solutions.
Therefore, the treaty is different from the previous Constitutional Treaty, but offers some similar or even identical solutions.
I am going to take one more supplementary question on this particular question.
We have had a whole spate of indications, but I take into account political balance and who has asked a question already. (SV) The wording cited by Mrs Goudin is good, and it is fantastic that we want to protect and improve the environment, that is good wording in the Lisbon Treaty.
Recently Commissioner Verheugen stated that in the past five years the Commission has taken Member States to the European Court of Justice a whole 19 times in cases where Member States have legislated to protect the environment.
Subject: Lisbon Treaty Is the Council satisfied that questions submitted by the Slovenian Presidency to the Member States, which included thirty-three points on the Lisbon Treaty that needed clarification, have been adequately responded to?
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Mrs Harkin asked about the points raised by the Slovenian Presidency.
This work started in January, in accordance with the mandate which the European Council bestowed on the Slovenian Presidency in December last year.
First of all, in the matter of the introduction of a common consolidated tax base, and indeed the matter of tax harmonisation, could you clarify that each country has a veto on these matters?
Secondly, I want to ask you about the protocol annexed to the Lisbon Treaty on the Euratom Treaty.
President-in-Office of the Council. - I will make an exception and speak English, Ms Harkin, in order to avoid any further controversy and to make myself maximally clear on the issues you raised.
No one has made any decisions, neither the Council nor the Presidency, on a moratorium on bad news or delicate topics.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Like the two MEPs who asked these two questions, the Council is also concerned about the persecution of Chinese human rights activists.
In accordance with the guidelines concerning human rights advocates, the leaders of European Union Member States' missions to China are carefully following the situation of individuals like Yang Chunlin and Hu Jia.
Nevertheless, we should mention some positive cases, for example the speedy release of Chinese journalists, including Yu Huafeng and Ching Cheong.
In the last round of human rights talks between the European Union and China, held in October 2007, the European Union Troika called on China to retain the regulations concerning foreign journalists even when the Olympics had ended.
These talks will take place in Ljubljana on 15 May.
I can assure you that the EU Troika will do its utmost in the discussion on these issues and will unequivocally show its concern to the Chinese government representatives. 'The goal of Olympianism is to place sport at the service of the harmonious development of man, and [...] any form of discrimination with regard to a country or a person on grounds of race, religion, politics, gender or otherwise is incompatible with belonging to the Olympic movement' - two fundamental principles of the Olympic Charter to which the Chinese have signed up.
We cannot have the Olympic Games there without putting this message as forcefully as possible to the Chinese authorities. (SL) In answer to Mrs Doyle: as I said in my first answer, the Olympic Charter is a matter for the International Olympic Committee.
I have already said that human rights talks between the EU and China will take place on 15 May.
Therefore, the answer is simple.
Mr Mitchell, you will probably agree that I cannot comment on information and data appearing in the media or elsewhere. (DE) Mr President-in-Office, you rightly said that in practice, dialogue can contribute to resolving conflicts.
The Council is determined to continue the dialogue and to address the human rights issue.
On 19 March, only a few days after the events, the Council made a statement in the name of the European Union, in which it appealed for restraint.
The Slovenian Presidency sent a similar statement on behalf of the European Union during the session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva on 25 March.
The human rights talks between the European Union and China, which have been mentioned several times today and will take place in the Slovenian capital, Ljubljana, on 15 May, will be another occasion to discuss the situation in Tibet and other pressing issues, such as the position of human rights proponents.
It is important to assess the human rights dialogue in the context of a broader dialogue between the EU and China on human rights, reforms and political and social advances.
If that were the case, the Slovenian Presidency would not have spoken on behalf of the European Union at the session of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva on 25 March on the subject you mentioned.
Two opposition politicians, whom the Chadian Government says it is not holding, were in fact seized by state security forces on 3 February in Chad.
An agreement with nearly all political opposition parties was reached on 13 August last year.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Following attacks on the capital city, N'Djamena, which Chadian rebels carried out from Sudan in January, the commanding officer, General Nash, decided on 31 January to interrupt the deployment temporarily.
The initial operational capacity was reached on 15 March, and, according to the plan, the full capacity should be reached by the end of June.
Sadly these predictions came true, which gave extra urgency to the deployment of the EUFOR mission and the United Nations mission in Chad and the Central African Republic.
At this moment there are 1 800 EUFOR soldiers in Chad and the Central African Republic.
