It is difficult to have a European policy on human rights when Member States impose their national interests to this degree.
We have human rights clauses in all of our cooperation agreements, and yet we do not have effective monitoring and temporary suspension mechanisms, because those clauses would really allow us to ensure respect for democracy in third countries.
Therefore, the weapon we have identified and which is explicitly mentioned in this report - I am genuinely sorry that there is actually a Socialist Group amendment seeking to delete this part - is the weapon of non-violence: Ghandian non-violence, to be precise, as a political instrument rather than a folkloric reference; non-violence founded on knowledge, founded on rights - creating rights, ensuring the survival of rights, protecting the right to life.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, fifteen years after the first election observation mission to Russia, and eight years after the first communication by the Commission on this subject, what assessment can we make of election observations?
It is also unthinkable - and disastrous - that when representatives are elected on a democratic basis, they do not have the right to the respect and legitimacy that their election confers.
The European Union and the European Union missions need to work with other missions and also with local organisations.
In summary, Mr President, I would like to express my support and satisfaction with what has been done and also my support for the future.
As regards the call, contained in the report, to enhance cooperation between the Council of Europe and the European Union, I must say that we agree that there is a great deal of scope in this area and the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Council of Europe and the European Union is of course important.
The European Union respects the Council of Europe's efforts to promote and protect human rights.
The recent seventh session of the Human Rights Council, which was held in Geneva, was a success for the European Union.
The European Union regards it as a key mechanism for protecting and promoting human rights.
At the same time, the Member States supported the inclusion of a reference to this matter in the new Common Code on Visas.
Election observation missions are a very important element of European Union policy for fostering democracy.
This year elections have been, and will be, held in many countries.
As part of our efforts to strengthen links between the European Parliament and the Council as regards election observation missions, we have already carried out an exchange of views with MEPs who have led observation missions.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, it is of course a great pleasure that I can again participate today in the joint discussion in plenary about two key reports in the field of human rights and democracy: the Cappato report on the EU annual report on human rights and the Salafranca/De Keyser report on election observation missions (EOMs).
Human rights are the foundation of democracy, and democracy is indispensable to protect and promote human rights.
As in 2007, these missions will be financed in full respect of the agreed budgetary framework.
I would therefore again like to congratulate all chief observers so far for their outstanding work.
In fact, the professionalism of the European Union EOMs has been a top priority for me since the beginning of my term of office, during which there have been chief observers in some 36 countries.
I agree that EU election observation cannot be a stand-alone policy but must be part of a broader human-rights and democracy-support strategy.
There is a need for enhancing political and technical follow-up to EU EOMs.
We all have to play a role and the Commission will use the forthcoming review of the country strategy papers to devise more coherent policy approaches at country level, as suggested in the report, to ensure that our actions in the fields of protection and promotion of human rights, democracy promotion, electoral support and development assistance aiming at improving democratic governance and the rule of law are mutually reinforcing.
In these areas we have already taken important steps: EU EOMs are now systematically thought into the electoral cycle and there is an increasing awareness for integrating recommendations of EU EOMs into dialogue with partner countries.
Now the first round of Universal Periodic Reviews (UPRs) has come to a close and the second round started on 5 May.
With both some EU Member States and third countries under scrutiny, I think it will be very useful to analyse in a detailed manner whether this key innovation will contribute positively to enhancing the Human Rights Council's effectiveness.
The relevant EU Council group (COHOM) - this is in Geneva - has started to improve coordination in view of a more coherent EU position in the Human Rights Council and will discuss in detail conclusions to be drawn from the first two rounds.
I think the rest will come up in the debate, and I will then be ready to answer all the questions.
The Member States themselves must also stand by.
We should also mention the country which currently holds the EU Presidency, Slovenia, where citizens without records and therefore without citizenship are sent to countries such as Kosovo or Serbia, with no guarantees for their safety.
I would like to begin by thanking my fellow Members whose joint efforts have facilitated the preparation of the Annual Report on Human Rights in the World 2007 and the EU policy.
The EPP-ED Group has always given a great deal of attention to human rights in such countries as China, Russia and Iran, and not without reason, as the human rights situation in these countries gives cause for great concern.
It is widely known that the EU has developed and implemented many measures relating to the protection of human rights and the spread of democracy.
These include political dialogue, démarches and financial instruments - European instruments for protecting democracy and human rights, the framework, the work of multinational forums.
In dealing with such controversial issues the most accurate standard is that of human rights, particularly the rights of children and women.
Defenders of human rights, regardless of the country they are from - Oswaldo Payá and the Ladies in White from Cuba, Yuri Bandazhevsky from Belarus, Salih Mahmoud Osman from Sudan and hundreds of others - deserve our respect and increased support.
These things, I believe, are a fundamental human right and much more attention should be given to this issue in future.
We are very proud that your report calls for enhanced cooperation between the European Union and the Council of Europe in the field of minority rights.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) I would like to concentrate for a moment on the link between human rights and democracy.
We should therefore maintain the practice of observing elections, but we must not limit ourselves to such actions in the fight to establish an authentic liberal democracy.
This means that more attention needs to be devoted to establishing a democratic culture and the institutions of a civil society.
It has been confirmed in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in Article 16 of the OSCE Final Document and Article 9 of the European Convention.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, the reports put forward are very precise and well documented.
Specific demands are also addressed to the Member States.
Ratifying them would honour the Member States and the EU as a whole.
There are also some even more difficult, and recurrent, issues that the international situation unfailingly places at the forefront of our concerns: issues concerning a comprehensive, integrated approach to human rights in all EU policies.
The EU should be moving towards a legislative framework that fosters compatibility in its activities and respect for human rights.
The European External Action Service should, for example, include a centre focusing on the cross-cutting nature of human rights.
The European Parliament itself should take the plunge.
The Commission is increasingly undermined by the Council and the Member States in its strategies for promoting human rights throughout the world.
For this reason, it is important that the European Parliament continues to play a galvanising role in this area, for example with reports like the one by Mr Cappato.
I think that, whilst a number of aspects of the voluminous Cappato report are open to criticism, the report, to its credit, places discrimination against minority religions in a number of third countries expressly on the agenda - something that was much needed.
It is time we had the courage to see the plank in our own eye. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the fact that elections are observed by recognised institutions improves the election atmosphere and sometimes even helps to crystallise significant changes, as happened, for example, during the Orange Revolution in Kiev.
It seems to me that the two reports make a very good attempt to balance these two challenges facing the European Union.
Mongolia may be an example of a country in which we really are dealing with a positive trend in the field of human rights.
Often the observation mission takes place within a framework of development support under the Cotonou Agreement.
For the elections in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2006, for instance, there was substantial technical support for the election registration process, and election observation missions should also come in a framework of support after the election, as Mrs De Keyser's report emphasises.
I would like to thank the Commission, and particularly Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, for the commitment and determination shown in developing the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights to help promote human rights through election observation, in the knowledge that democracy and human rights need not only free and fair elections, but development and a strategy for combating poverty.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner's proposal for a second joint seminar on election observation is also important, particularly if we succeed in involving civil society and local election observers, who would be a vital channel of communication for us. - (SV) Mr President, the EU is a union of values which has its basis in a common agreement to respect human rights.
Yes, the EU protests, but is our action measured in inverse proportion to the trading importance of those we target?
And then I discover that all we have is an ad hoc dialogue with India and the absence of meaningful engagement on human rights issues.
The EU still has to be much stronger.
To explain two of our Socialist amendments: firstly, I do respect his and your position about Gandhi and non-violence and I think it is a very important tradition that you draw our attention to in Parliament.
Finally, in recital P and paragraph 4 we ask the Commission, together with the Council, to endorse the proposal of a consensus on democracy promotion in the neighbourhood policy, in the Copenhagen Criteria, in our regional strategies in the world.
This year the figures are 216 and 10 accordingly.
The world's biggest human rights problem - the discrimination against 260 million casteless Dalits - is mentioned only briefly, and even then only in connection with a list of things that could give rise to discrimination.
The problem exists in many South Asian countries, but I mention India because it is democratic, a fact that was underlined as the most important factor in connection with human rights.
Ladies and gentlemen, on 13 April Ennaama Asfari, a human rights defender in the Western Sahara, was arrested in Marrakech.
We are responsible, and therefore any human rights report must say that the European Union should be exacting and vigilant and must comply with UN Security Council resolutions.
Free elections and the right to democracy are fundamental human rights enshrined, inter alia, in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and also by the UN Millennium Declaration.
For these reasons the promotion of democracy is one of the main objectives of EU foreign policy.
For that support to be effective, we need to strengthen our common foreign and security policy and make the EU election observation missions more efficient.
I also believe, for example, that the election process, including the pre-election and post-election phases, should be included in the political dialogue with the third countries concerned.
I am also convinced, based on personal experience of the observation missions, that the European Parliament should and can play a much more effective and significant role in this process.
The death penalty, torture and hunger are barbaric phenomena that persist in this world that we in part govern.
Europe needs a proactive human rights policy.
It is important to mobilise civil society, but we must not forget that the fight for rights falls in the first place to the States and their diplomacy.
The European Union cannot sell its soul. - (PL) Commissioner, in congratulating the three rapporteurs, I would like to place particular emphasis on absolute and unquestioned consideration for the rights of women in all spheres of public life, in social relations and in purely human private relations - not just in theory, but in practice.
This requires above all the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls.
Human rights must be our guiding light in every policy choice we make.
These two colonies, namely Akrotiri and Dhekelia are inhabited by approximately 10 000 Cypriot civilians who are EU citizens although their homes are on land which Britain, for obvious reasons, has excluded from the EU.
Maybe other Member States have their own dirty linen that they do not want exposed or maybe these institutions do not really believe in the principles of democracy and justice they claim they stand for, or maybe the EU cares for human rights only when it does not concern its own members.
As the recent Freedom House reports also show, the year 2007 was the worst year for world freedom, since the end of the cold war.
Under these circumstances, I agree that before, during and after the elections, the most important task of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Union's Member States is to draft a joint and global strategy for promoting democracy.
I agree that the European Union must make a big effort to pursue a genuinely consistent, robust policy to promote human rights in the world.
The involvement of MEPs in election observation is extremely important.
The European Union is dealing with human rights more and more.
And the world can see that solidarity and protection of fundamental rights is one of our basic principles, without which no country can achieve prosperity. (FR) Mr President, thank you for upholding gender equality.
Can I also just pay tribute to all the observers, because at the end of the day, although as chief observers we are present on the ground, although we also go on observation missions, we do have hundreds of experts - young and not-so-young - throughout the world, who generously go and support democracy in other countries.
It would be a real shame if a lack of resources prevented us from responding to these requests from countries. (ET) I asked to take the floor to call for a greater focus on human rights in Afghanistan, a country in which the Member States and the European Union as a whole have made a substantial contribution.
His fate is now in the hands of President Karzai.
Today we are not dealing solely with the fact that she was unable to assert her rights or her mandate in court but also that her life is in danger.
Allow me just to congratulate all the rapporteurs for their extremely high-quality and useful reports.
I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate for their views.
Human rights dialogues have become an increasingly important component of the EU's activities to promote human rights worldwide.
In line with the December 2001 Guidelines on Human Rights Dialogues, the European Union has established some 30 dialogues, and others - like, for instance, with Central Asia, Southern Caucasus, South Africa and possibly also some important Latin American partners - are also under consideration.
We have also had very good, constructive results from some of our neighbourhood partners, and, we have to say, some more mixed results, like the recent dialogue with Russia.
The new European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights is now also being implemented at full speed, with two calls for proposals for Objective 1 - the difficult countries - and one for human rights defenders under our evaluation by the Commission services.
Human rights within the European Union have been mentioned by several speakers.
I should also like to say a few words about the election observation missions.
Many have taken the floor who have already been excellent chief observers.
In this context, I would just like to say that in general the Commission promotes a healthy and reproductive life.
This is important for women's and children's lives.
We give EUR 4 million in the EIDHR 2008 Framework.
The ICC clause is in our agreements.
The Commission is recognised as the key institution in democracy promotion through our EOMs and other election support measures and through substantial support for democracy efforts of third countries and for international organisations like the UN, OSCE and the Council of Europe.
The right to democracy is now a fundamental human right, and this is an important instrument to be used.
In this sense, we propose that the EU should promote the technologies and techniques of non-violence in human rights and democracy promotion.
I would like to respond to two of my fellow Members in particular.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Cappato, Talking about an annual report on human rights in the world, let us pay attention also to the following fact: at the end of April, the authorities in Skopje decided to arrest the journalist Victor Kanzurov in the middle of the night and without any charges against him.
Having been arrested for 24 hours, Kanzurov was allowed to return home but his passport was seized.
in writing. - (RO) In 2009, legislative elections will take place in the Republic of Moldova, during which the Parliament will elect the State President.
in writing. - (PL) In the recently signed Treaty of Lisbon, the EU Member States took on a duty to strengthen human rights and freedoms and democratic order in the world.
in writing. - (FI) Human rights are an important component in the Union's common foreign and security policy.
Human rights questions are also security policy questions.
The human rights report mentions Gandhi and the policy of non-violent resistance he represented.
Human rights are universal values.
The Union still has a long way to go in developing a clear, coherent and more widely influential policy in this area.
We should not merely support but absolutely insist on respect for human rights both within the EU and in its external relations.
The report deals very satisfactorily with Parliament's crucial role in the EU's human rights policy, for example in the regularly held emergency debates.
The situation of children living with a disability is particularly alarming in this regard.
The European Union is still a long way off pursuing a uniform and effective policy to protect and promote human rights around the world.
The EU uses human rights selectively as a pretext for pressurising and blackmailing countries that, for various reasons, resist its imperialist aspirations, such as Cuba, Vietnam, North Korea, Belarus and Iran.
The Communist Party of Greece (KKE) is voting against the report.
in writing. - I congratulate my colleague Marco Cappato on a comprehensive report, pointing out the most burning issues in the field of human rights last year.
