author. - (CS) Madam President, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all I would like to mention something that has nothing to do with my question, to express a complaint.
I want to ask whether the European Union and the European institutions understand their leading role in this area, in the fight against the loss of biodiversity.
The committee would like to hear whether special attention will be paid to marine and coastal biodiversity and whether the Commission and the Council understand the importance of involving regional and local governments as well as businesses in this matter, in the fight against the loss of biodiversity.
Together with climate change, biodiversity is the Presidency's main priority among environmental tasks.
The ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 9), which will take place in Bonn in May, is therefore an important event for the European Union in general, as well as for the Slovenian Presidency.
Therefore my answer to your question is: yes, the European Union wants to and must preserve its role as world leader in this field.
The Council keeps pointing out the necessity for cohesion at all levels in the implementation of international agreements on the environment.
The Council underlines the importance of forests in the adaptation to and mitigation of climate change and in the preservation of biodiversity.
Well, I believe that Europe made some progress in this area by implementing the activities covered by the communication of 2006 from the Commission 'Halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 - and beyond'.
Effective international cooperation is also essential and we are firmly committed to working through the Convention on Biological Diversity to protect global diversity worldwide.
The decisions to be taken in Bonn should contribute to the post-Bali debate on reduced emissions from deforestation and forest degradation.
I welcome the participation of Members of the European Parliament at COP 9 and MOP 4, as they are called in the language we use in this context.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, this afternoon I am speaking on behalf of Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines.
In this respect, a number of conservation programmes ought to be taken into consideration, particularly the models already applied in the EU.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, the ninth COP meeting on biological diversity could hardly have come at a better time.
In 2002 the parties made a commitment to significantly reduce the loss of biodiversity by 2010 at global, regional and national level.
The EU must also do better with regard to the protection of biodiversity.
COP 9 will help to ensure this.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the preservation of biological diversity represents a challenge for the contemporary world.
We must therefore take an unambiguous decision as to whether we are in favour of biological diversity or in favour of GMOs.
That we have managed to make climate change an EU priority is a positive step, but we must realise, however, that the Conventions on biodiversity and desertification are somewhat eclipsed by this climate change.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) There are an estimated 14 million different species of animals and plants on the earth.
Over 30 000 species are currently threatened with extinction.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, two weeks ago I represented the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Temporary Committee on Climate Change at the informal Environment Council in Slovenia.
It is therefore vital to call a halt to deforestation as far as possible in order to protect biodiversity.
However, studies published in the last few years, in Nature and Science for instance, show that if forest land is increased the result is higher emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas that is 23 times stronger than CO2.
Whilst most of us now have at least some understanding of the extent of the problem of climate change, many have not made the connection between climate change and biodiversity loss.
Indeed, in this area, I think we need to link up the work of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Conference of the Parties on Climate Change.
The link between food and agriculture must be clearly established.
This Parliament has reiterated its concern on biodiversity loss through its relevant resolution of 22 May 2007, but one of the main obstacles to halting biodiversity loss is, I am afraid to say, the lack of effective action by both the Commission and the Council, both of which give the impression that they care about the matter largely only in theory and that, in practice, they suffer from lack of will and determination in making sure that, in real terms, there is full implementation of relevant directives and that both international and internal commitments are fulfilled.
We know that the nature conservation Directives and the network of nature conservation areas created by Natura 2000 are a success story for the European Union.
Mr Stoiber's attack on nature conservation in Europe was conducted in exactly the same way, under the guise of 'simplification'.
In the Carpathians or, for example, in Sajólád, 30-40% of the forests have already been stolen.
The Hungarian Government's position on neglect of the Natura 2000 sites is such that this week, when we are celebrating the Day of the Land, the Central Europe Rally, part of the Dakar Series, was organised, unimpeded, through areas of enhanced environmental protection, and even through Natura 2000 sites.
PECH expressed its position regarding the significant impact of deforestation on the climate, the long-term economic advantages and the importance of preserving forests intact, in the Resolution of November 2007 on trade and climate change.
Moreover, I encourage the start of discussions regarding the launch of a global mechanism supervising wood cutting and trading. (DE) Mr President, the European Union's motto is 'unity in diversity' but, as we know, in the natural world this diversity has decreased alarmingly over the last 150 years.
Loss rates currently amount to between 1 000 and 10 000 times higher than the average during the earth's history.
The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) estimates that the main producer countries of wheat and maize have lost more than 80% of their original varieties, and these figures are just the tip of the iceberg, for we know that to date, only around 1.7 million of the world's estimated 13 million living species have been identified and described.
We also know that climate change is exacerbating the situation.
However, we are equally aware that this loss of biological diversity reduces our ability to respond to climate change in particular, so we really face a difficult dilemma.
Every year, 14 to 15 million hectares are gone.
The problem is that you provide no alternative, and we all know that there are very limited financial resources in the Biodiversity Convention - and there are not likely to be any in the future either.
This is a challenge for us all. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would be interested to hear whether the Commission, in respect of the CAP Health Check, has already given some thought to how we can go forward here, especially in the next financial perspective.
After the initial euphoria surrounding the production of agro-diesel, we now know that it has counterproductive effects, not only because it takes 9 000 litres of water to produce one litre of agro-diesel and that it causes nitrous oxide emissions, which are far more damaging than CO2.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) I would first like to thank you for you very involved debate.
Your debates were wide and touched on numerous issues covering the narrower content of the meeting in Bonn.
I would like to start with the issue of biofuels, because this is also a very lively debate right now in all the media and a big problem and challenge for all of us.
But we will also have to act internationally on these issues and make sure that there are sustainability criteria and that this does not add to the food crisis.
I would also say to Ms Doyle that maybe the main thing is not to try to merge the negotiations between the different Conferences of Parties but rather to make sure that we maximise the co-benefits when we implement both the measures on fighting climate change and making sure that we can keep up our biodiversity targets.
This goes for the whole debate on legislation and regulation and ambitious targets.
So I think from this point of view, again, it is about making sure that we convince both Member States and all our institutions to do everything to implement our targets.
The Ninth Conference of the Parties to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity is to be held in Bonn in May 2008.
