Press freedom in Kenya The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on press freedom in Kenya.
author. - Mr President, freedom of the press is synonymous with freedom of expression and democracy.
On 2 January 2009, he violated the provisions of the Declaration of Human Rights and the African Charter of Human Rights by sanctioning amendments to what is known as the Kenya Communications Bill of 1998, giving the national authorities new rights, including the right to dismantle broadcasting and communications equipment, as well as to control and alter the content of mass media publications.
This exacerbated the crisis in Kenya, which had already lasted for over a year and which had claimed around 1 000 victims and left 350 000 people homeless.
We should welcome the Kenyan President's assurances that the amendments will be revised and that all political powers will be consulted on this matter, in order to give these amendments a new, democratic quality and ensure the broad support of Kenyan society.
This act disregards the rights to freedom of expression and press freedom as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and echoed by other international conventions, including the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights.
Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right, as stated in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
This food shortage is partly attributable to the fact that the President, in exchange for the construction of the port, has leased out 40 000 hectares of farm land to the oil state Qatar for food supplies.
A year ago, like many others, I was dismayed and disappointed that, after flawed presidential elections in Kenya, street demonstrations led to riots and ethnic clashes that spread across the country, killing more than a thousand people and leaving another 350 000 people homeless.
Section 88 gives the Information Minister considerable powers to raid and dismantle broadcasting equipment from a media house that is deemed to be a threat to national security.
Section 46 gives the state the power to regulate contents to be aired and published by both electronic and print media.
The Kenyan Government signed and ratified the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international conventions, including the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights.
A year ago, over a thousand people died during protests linked to the elections and 350 000 people fled their homes.
Firstly because freedom of speech is a fundamental human right, as laid down in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to which Kenya is a signatory.
The demonstrations which took place almost a year ago after the Presidential elections in Kenya and grew into riots and ethnic conflict, in which more than 1 000 people were killed and tens of thousands were left homeless, is the strongest argument for not allowing similar events to be repeated.
I think that President Kibaki and Prime Minister Odinga will take appropriate action.
We therefore noticed with satisfaction the recent decision of President Kibaki on 7 January to revise some disputed sections of this Act.
Written statements (Rule 142) At the start of 2009, democracy in Kenya suffered in the form of a blow against the freedom of the press.
Ladies and gentlemen, Kenya is acting in contravention of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights.
Through the ill-considered action of President Kibaki, these have now become law.
