2001 discharge procedure The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: A5-0072/2003 by Mr Ole B.
Section II - Council (SEC(2002) 405 - C5-0243/2002 - 2002/2103(DEC)) 2.
Section IV - Court of Justice (SEC(2002) 405 - C5-0244/2002 - 2002/2104(DEC)) 3.
Section V - Court of Auditors (SEC(2002) 405 - C5-0245/2002 - 2002/2105(DEC)) 4.
Section VI - Economic and Social Committee (SEC(2002) 405 - C5-0246/2002 - 2002/2106(DEC)) 5.
Section VII - Committee of the Regions (SEC(2002) 405 - C5-0247/2002 - 2002/2107(DEC)) 6.
on the discharge to the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year 2001 (C5-0601/2002 - 2002/2186(DEC)) 2.
on the discharge to the European Foundation for the improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 2001 (C5-0597/2002 - 2002/2187(DEC)) 3.
In my report, I have focused on certain key basic concepts in current development policy and attempted to investigate whether these basic concepts place special requirements on, or raise particular issues in connection with, checks on the use of the funds.
Decentralisation: the much discussed decentralisation that the Commission has implemented is based on more decisions being made on the spot rather than here and in Brussels.
Moreover, I find it alarming that the three funds effective for the 2001 financial year have been in the process of implementation for 16, 11 and 4 years respectively.
Mr President, Commissioner, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Helmut, fellow Socialist Members and Members from the other political groups who have worked with us: I believe we can be satisfied with the work we have done to date on the discharge of the budget of 2001, which enjoyed broad consensus in Cocobu and which failed to win the support only of those who, out of ideological prejudice against the European institutions, consider this exercise to be more a means of checking their growing strength than an instrument for correcting their mistakes.
Then we have the problem which runs deeper and is more difficult to correct; that of systematic budgetary under-implementation, which in 2001 stood at more than EUR 15 billion, a colossal sum, which on its own exceeds the entire budget of several of the current Member States.
It is up to the Commission to propose the regulatory framework in which to develop programmes for budgetary implementation; it is up to the Commission to make budgetary proposals both on an annual basis and in accordance with the financial perspective; it is therefore up to the Commission to ensure that budgetary programmes are feasible and realistic.
If, however, there are problems of implementation on the part of the management partners, the Commission must make these known in a transparent way and in good time, enabling the due corrective measures to be taken.
We have paid particular attention in this field to the programme of structural aid for agriculture in the countries applying for EU membership (the Sapard Programme).
It is deeply regrettable that the Commission is not even able to detail the number of contracts with third parties through which it implements an extremely substantial part of its own budget and is therefore even less in a position to establish an appropriate ex-post mechanism to monitor not only the legality and regularity, but also the transparency and efficiency of these contracts.
Approving this report will consequently be less a point of arrival and more a point of departure.
With regard to the Council, for the first time this Parliament is granting discharge.
Therefore, the Committee on Budgetary Control has considered it appropriate that this year the discharge of the Council be included, with the clarifications which I will summarise next.
The committee is pleased to note that cooperation in terms of responses and improvement during the next financial year are one of the Council's objectives, as well as overcoming the discrepancies between the physical inventory and the accounting inventory.
As I said before, until now the Council has been treated differently, and we believe it should be managed more effectively and more transparently.
With regard to the Court of Justice, discharge is granted, also with some observations which I will point out in a moment.
There were many gaps in relation to information on these processes, but they have now been resolved and we are very pleased about this.
We are also pleased with the efforts it has made to make the declaration of reliability an instrument which provides information on improvements in management and control.
We believe this effort should be maintained, because it is one of the best ways of gathering information on the situation the institutions are in.
We also welcome the improvements relating to information on the work carried out by the Court of Auditors.
All the past problems have been resolved, which we are very pleased about.
This committee has presented its accounts and all its management in a clear manner, and, in contrast with the past, we have no difficulty in granting it discharge this year.
With the time limit for reports to be carried out expired, after a series of items of information had been requested by means of a questionnaire - as for the other institutions - we have received an audit report relating to 2001 in which there are many serious deficiencies in all aspects relating to the payment and presentation of receipts, travelling, daily allowances and other types of emoluments.
Therefore, despite the fact that the Committee of the Regions has delivered its modified Regulation with a later date, we believe it is more appropriate to postpone discharge until October and, meanwhile, to produce a report which gives us better and clearer knowledge of the accounts of the Committee of the Regions.
Naturally, he will also receive our discharge.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to express my sincere thanks for the excellent cooperation I have received, not only from my fellow Members, but especially from the Secretary-General and his services.
I have regarded my report as a kind of annual report on the functioning of the European Parliament in 2001.
My report has 120 sections.
As I say in my report, together with the Committee on Budgetary Control, this objective has not in fact been achieved.
A second important chapter of my report concerns buildings policy.
In the previous discharge report, the Bureau and the Secretary-General were asked to publish a study on this.
Hence the recommendation to those MEPs who are active in the Convention to raise this there and ensure that the possibility of amending Article 289 of the EC Treaty is considered during the preparation of the draft Constitution.
I know that this is still a significant problem, as a proposal of this kind still has to go to the Intergovernmental Conference, and indeed a number of Member States still have a veto.
The Belgian Government has a number of obligations in this regard and should in fact bear the costs.
The Belgian First Minister has been sent two letters, but has not replied.
I therefore urge the Belgian Government to comply with its obligation forthwith and pay us that EUR 4.74 million.
Mr President, you are the Vice-President responsible for buildings policy, and I say here in all frankness that I believe that you and the Administration have steered an excellent course.
I think that you have done everything possible to execute this building project in accordance with the proper rules.
The fact that the Belgian Government at one stage agreed that the land was free of charge, but that this nevertheless ended up in the hands of a private developer, has added to the difficulty of our task, and that is something I regret.
As recently as Friday of last week, the Commission presented a study stating that, if all the government buildings in the European Union used renewable energy, this would already mean 18% compliance with the Kyoto standard that Europe has to achieve.
Mr President, firstly I would like to say a few words concerning the discharge of the Commission.
I would like to recommend that discharge be granted on time this year.
The Eurostat case would never have seen the light of day had it not been for a Eurostat employee.
There are some problems that are general to all the agencies.
Basically, I believe that the Commission should apply the brakes and carry out a cost/benefit analysis of all types of agencies and the interaction between them.
The agencies must now also implement the new Financial Regulation, and that has already happened at the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia in Vienna.
Among other things, this means that the agencies are now to be responsible for their own financial control.
We are therefore very dependent on the internal control system in the agency functioning properly.
The Agency for Reconstruction has generally acquitted itself well, but unfortunately there has been a very serious case of fraud within the energy sector.
These rules were not observed in several of the contracts signed in 2001, and I would say to the Commissioner that this must not happen again or there will be problems.
As the honourable Members know - particularly those in the Committee on Budgetary Control - each second of plenary session costs almost EUR 10.
We have here - and I almost regret that, in accordance with the Treaty, the ECSC expired last July after 50 years - an example of how it is perfectly possible to present a balanced and correct budget.
Following my in-depth research, let me put it like this: without the ECSC success story, we can be sure that some things in Europe would have gone differently and far less well.
The ECSC - I am repeating myself - was a model for peace and progress in Europe.
I am glad that, even after the ECSC has been wound up, there will be a research fund making an important contribution in the coal and steel sector, in which the candidate countries will also take part, and willingly so.
I promise you, however, that we on the Committee on Budgetary Control will still be keeping our eyes open in this area in the future.
Parliament exercises control over this on behalf of the citizens of the Union.
In addition to the several hundred pages of financial statements, the rapporteurs and the committee also had to work through the annual report of the Court of Auditors and hundreds of pages of replies to the 267 questions that were put to the Commission, and the committee held hearings with eight members of the Commission.
I must concentrate here, however, on a few points that proved the most important in the discharge process, namely the accounting rules and the book-keeping system, the contracts with the Statistical Office and the question of the rate of implementation of the budget.
So far as the accounts are concerned, the Court of Auditors has found that the 2001 revenue and expenditure account gives a true and fair view of the income and expenditure, and this is confirmed in Mr Casaca's report.
Compared with the Member States, when we look at some aspects of the balance sheet, too, we have nothing to be ashamed of.
The accounting system must have an entry on both the assets and the liabilities sides as soon as a commitment is entered into, for example, and not wait until the payment has actually been made.
The Commission will of course gladly comply with the Committee on Budgetary Control's request for a quarterly progress report on reform.
We do, of course, also have the great advantage of having an independent public authority, the European Court of Auditors, as our external auditor.
In response to the questions from your general rapporteur about contracts with Eurogramme, the Commission has agreed to suspend all payments to Eurogramme for the time being and to review all contracts concluded with it.
The Commission will present the Committee on Budgetary Control with a list of these contacts at a forthcoming meeting and suggest how we may take scrutiny further.
The events surrounding Eurogramme or Eurostat have also shown that cooperation with OLAF in information matters needs to be placed on a less ambiguous footing.
You now have the report you reminded us about concerning lending activity, but it will probably not be possible to produce the publication you suggest about the ECSC's activities since its formation in 1952 in all official languages by the end of this year because some of the posts have already gone to other services.
But I fully agree with you that this experience and information about this important part of the history of the common European path should be available in all countries and people should be able to see how the idea of economic cooperation led to a genuine project for peace.
Mr Blak, scrutiny of the agencies now covers a very broad spectrum of different activities, and your work, for which the Commission thanks you, was therefore very wide ranging.
The new Financial Regulation has been in force since 1 January 2003.
This far-reaching reform is the fruit of the intensive work undertaken jointly by Commission and Parliament in 2001 and 2002, and I would also like to mention the Council at this point.
Reform of the accounting system is in full swing and must be completed by the end of 2004.
This Commission will leave behind a service that is comprehensively and radically reformed and ready for the new challenges of enlargement.
The Committee on Budgetary Control and this House have always supported and encouraged the Commission in this and with this discharge process Parliament has given renewed, and greater, impetus for reform.
Mr President, Commissioner, we can also vote for discharge from the external policy point of view.
You are right, Commissioner, that deconcentration or decentralisation and the strengthening of delegations have set in train a great process of reform in external policy expenditure.
This decentralisation has been a complete success, as I have seen for myself in various places.
I would, however, like to raise three problems and, in a way as a kind of peaceful preventive strategy, point out that we shall be paying quite particular attention to them.
The new Finance Minister and the new Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority are a good sign, but we will be watching things very closely.
The second is the KEDO programme.
We have received a reply from the Commission for 2001, which we have noted, but with which we are of course not satisfied, and this means that we will be looking in particular at 2002 and subsequent years more closely to see whether it is ensured that our money really is being used for peaceful purposes.
The third programme is pre-accession aid.
In view of the fact that Bulgaria and Romania will still remain even after the other countries have acceded, and that there will in all probability also be Turkey and a few Balkan countries, Croatia for example, we cannot be satisfied with amending Sapard alone.
Nevertheless, we consent to the discharge for 2001, giving notice, however, that we will be following these three matters in particular very closely in the months ahead.
It shows, with no ifs and buts, that the main objectives of the 1999 Structural Funds reform were not achieved.
The situation is indeed alarming.
Let me please make it absolutely clear that we on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs are very concerned about the sometimes very serious cases of mismanagement in the use of money from the Social Fund by the Member States and that we fully support the Commission here, Commissioner, in all its investigations and controls.
Sometimes we really do get the feeling that some Member States really do not want to make the effort to improve things.
As rapporteur for the last Social Fund reform, I was really very deeply concerned to read what the Court of Auditors has now written in its special report on the use of 'social risk capital', an instrument that this House pushed through especially in order to oblige the Member States to make a suitable amount of funding available as 'grants' to non-governmental organisations and local partnerships.
The fact is that some Member States are clearly in breach of the Social Fund Regulation.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Member States to find, without delay, a solution acceptable to all sides.
On the one hand, we are pleased with the efforts made by the Commission during 2001 to integrate the aspect of equal opportunities between men and women into the Union's policies and particularly into new fields such as international trade, public contracts, asylum policy and the environment.
I have been responsible for an initiative report on compliance with the objective of equality in the Structural Funds, since it is a very important programme which is unfortunately not being implemented adequately and which leaves out such important criteria as this equal opportunities criterion.
We hope that in the future more initiatives will be adopted and the procedures will be simplified, so that these Funds are used appropriately in order to achieve this objective.
We also believe it unacceptable that, although the European Social Fund has the established objective of 15% of total costs for the promotion of the employment of women, only 6% has been used for this purpose.
We are also pleased with the implementation of the Daphne programme, which ended at the end of 2002 and whose new phase is now underway.
We have expressed a series of considerations on the extension of the Daphne programme, which will be taken into account in the Commission's report and in the new phase of this programme, which is so important in the fight against violence against women and which has brought such good results, on which I congratulate the Commission.
It is also proposed postponing discharge for five agencies that receive money from the EU Budget until their constituent acts are brought into line with the new Financial Regulation.
Let me begin, however, by thanking all the rapporteurs for their conscientious and responsible work and the members of the committees for their constructive cooperation and in particular the committee secretariat for its excellent support.
We have broken new ground with the discharge procedure for 2001 because rules have come into force that are not always clear and may lead to difficulties.
The first question concerns the vote during the April meeting.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has two options: first, to propose the discharge be granted or, second, to propose the discharge be postponed.
Yesterday evening the Committee on Budgetary Control had to comply with another new rule.
We therefore proceeded pragmatically and noted the Committee's previous vote in the case of motions that were retabled, taking a vote on new motions, of which there were only a few.
Our committee can make proposals but not set parameters.
I think this new rule complicates the discharge procedure.
Without the innovations referred to, I might have voted for a postponement in the Casaca report, because the rapporteur has listed the Commission's failings clearly and in detail and the other rapporteurs have also commented on them.
Mr President, now that the rapporteurs have driven a few things home to the Commission, I would like to concentrate on the political aspects of the discharge procedure.
People in this House clearly have different yardsticks for the discharge procedure and different political uses for it.
No evidence was ever produced for such a link and in the end there was only the staff dispute.
On the contrary, the more hysterical the attempt to make more of the staff dispute became, the clearer it became even to some journalists that there was nothing more to the story.
What is remarkable about this debate is that, on the eve of next year's European elections, we once more have a Commission which has not received a positive Statement of Assurance from the European Court of Auditors.
Our third argument for granting discharge is that, if we do not do so at the present juncture, on the eve of enlargement, it will make an extremely bad impression on the new Member States: that is to say, that we are in effect packing the Commission off home.
Our final argument for giving discharge is that we have found the attitude of the Commission towards this Parliament very positive in recent years.
The crucial question for us remains: what does the Commission need to do in order to obtain a positive Statement of Assurance?
The most striking feature of current agricultural policy is that it is no longer based on price support, but rather on income support - the integrated administration and control system.
I would therefore draw the attention of the Commission once more to an own-initiative report - which it so happens was drawn up by me, but was approved by plenary session - in which we point out that, if the administration of agricultural expenditure in the new and existing Member States concerned is not in order, the Commission must suspend advance payments much more often until the system is in order, instead of carrying out controls after the event and imposing penal charges.
As a former member of the Committee on Budgetary Control I myself am also guilty.
I did not draw the right conclusions from the reports produced by the Court of Auditors regarding the flaws in the accounting system.
The problems are not individual cases of malpractice, but are themselves inherent in the accounting system.
As Members of the European Parliament we should feel ashamed of the role we have played.
The report by the Committee on Budgetary Control lists numerous flaws, which give a gloomy picture of both the Commission's accounting system and ourselves.
For that reason, our group will also be supporting the discharge recommendation.
Unlike some of the EU's opponents, we do not believe that this discharge recommendation is a whitewash; it is based on a thorough examination and a critical assessment of the situation.
The tremendous cash flow difficulties with the Sapard programme are no accident.
The programme was supposed to prepare agriculture and rural areas for accession, both through measures to modernise farms and rural industries and by creating the necessary infrastructure and providing adequate information about rural development.
It was also supposed to bring about the rural population's active involvement in the design and planning of that development, which we in the Member States are already financing through the 'second pillar' and the Leader programme.
In the case of Slovenia, for example, building the administration for Sapard has cost more money than is ever made available for the country itself.
The Commission has now announced that it will hold a conference about the future of Sapard and Leader in the new Member States this spring and possibly amend the Sapard Regulations.
These reports focus time and time again on the major problems that exist with the financial management of the considerable funds that tax-payers in the fifteen States pay to the EU.
It is stressed that, in connection with the closure of the accounts for 2001, the Commission infringed the Financial Regulation, and, on page after page, we read the very weighty observations that ought to make us adopt a very different position which goes much further than we are currently doing.
Far too much regular fraud and deception is still taking place, and, when it is revealed by an honest public servant - whether it be Dorte Schmidt-Brown or Marta Andreasen - the person in question is dismissed and often has their name dragged through the mud.
Parliament is doing the EU a disservice by, year after year, turning a blind eye to the fact that the reforms requested by the group of wise men in 1999 have still not been implemented.
It is on this basis that some of us wish to vote against the reports concerning the Commission, the development funds and the agencies, but we will vote for the reports that recommend postponement of discharge.
If they do not pay, citizens can lose their possessions, their livelihoods, be made bankrupt and even go to jail.
All of this imposes a special responsibility on us, a special trust, and we must ask ourselves whether we could look our constituents in the eye and say yes: all of this money has been spent and properly accounted for.
On this basis I do not see how anyone could consent to the discharge of these accounts.
We have not discharged our responsibility of trust to the citizens of our Member States in ensuring that the money has been properly spent.
It has caused rivers of ink to flow and, as happens every year - this year, I regret to say, with more marked ill will - it has brought discredit and even disgrace on a directorate-general and one man in particular, Jean-Paul Mingasson, whom everyone here knows and holds in high esteem.
I am particularly keen to pay tribute to Paulo Casaca, María Antonia Avilés Perea, Bart Staes and the other rapporteurs for the significant work that they have carried out, which has, today, given us a balanced, comprehensive discharge, where we call, of course, on the Commission to settle a certain number of issues, in particular the delays.
We can clearly see this with the reform of the Staff Regulations, and the reform of the accounting system, in particular.
The reform of the accounting system, which has been criticised many times - sometimes rightly so, of course - is significant because this system is, in particular, the source of a very serious problem, that of the RALs, the outstanding commitments, which cause us major difficulties as an institution but also as a Union in relations with the outside world.
In any event, the Italian Radicals will be voting in favour of granting discharge.
Mr President, like my fellow Members, I am going to insist on what has been said in relation to the work carried out on the reports this year.
I have personally been able to observe how we rapporteurs, who are obliged to carry out the discharge of the various fields, are subject to external pressure, are put under pressure from the political groups to work in a particular direction.
We have to see past this pressure in order to do rigorous and objective work, and I believe the various rapporteurs have achieved this this year.
During this year we have been subjected to pressure from the press with articles, sometimes true and sometimes manipulated, which have attempted to influence our work.
In the various reports we have followed the same criterion because this work requires a high degree of responsibility from Parliament and must include a very rigorous analysis.
We defend the interests of the European citizens but, above all, we must bear in mind the consequences of what is decided in this Parliament.
Responsibility and rigour when it comes to carrying out the work must therefore be imposed.
Commissioner, you raised the issue of Eurostat.
I would really like to call on Luxembourg from here to take the protection of European taxpayers' interests more seriously than it has done in the past.
We cannot have a situation where they benefit from having thousands of European Union officials based in Luxembourg but evade responsibility when it comes to safeguarding European taxpayers' interests.
Officials who gain knowledge of these shortcomings and wish to contribute to a quick solution are not rewarded, but instead punished.
For years now, solutions have been put off until a later date, and only after 2005 will we know whether anything has really been solved.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission's implementation of the Budget has been extremely shaky for years now.
Today, however, four years on, a positive Statement of Assurance from the European Court of Auditors is nowhere to be seen.
The Commission's poor management tarnishes the reputation of all the European institutions.
I have been able to observe their efforts closely, as well as their coordination with all the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Firstly, because of the Commission's generally positive attitude in cooperating in the drawing up of this report and in responding to the questions addressed to it.
But furthermore, because this approval, or this report, was preceded by an analysis, not only of the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, but also of the questions put in the questionnaire, the answers given by the Commission, and the working documents produced by certain members of this committee.
But the Commission must also be aware - as I am sure it is - of the profound concern of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the whole of this House, I am sure, given the deficiencies of the accounting system and the essential need to choose the right accounting model.
Furthermore, I would also like to point out the caution in relation to the creation of executive agencies, the need to impose limits on the under-use of appropriations, particularly in relation to the Structural Funds, and compliance with the objectives of the Sapard Programme, above all in terms of its positive aspect of creating administrative support structures in the countries which are about to join us.
I also congratulate the Commission and all the Commission staff who have worked so hard to obtain a positive decision from Parliament in very difficult circumstances.
The alarmist and often factually incorrect reporting by some newspapers does not do justice to the efforts being undertaken to put things right.
Two weeks ago the internal auditor of the CoR was invited to attend a meeting of our committee to explain the discrepancies between his views and those of the Director of Finance of that institution on the financial management situation.
However, perhaps most worrying - more worrying even than all of this - is the fact that the internal audit service appears to be subject to huge pressure and even intimidation, designed to discourage them from pursuing their activities in a free and impartial manner.
I hope the Convention will take good note of it and that the Bureau of this Parliament will now overturn its ludicrous decision to build two new meeting rooms in Strasbourg.
Mr President, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which we all prize very highly - and rightly so - Article 41 enshrines a right to good administration.
The fact is, however, that, for the eighth time in succession, the European Court of Auditors has refused to issue a statement of assurance to the Commission attesting that the latter has managed European taxpayers' money prudently and thriftily.
The accounting deficiencies that a courageous woman, a senior official in the Commission, brought to light in the spring of 2002 are hair-raising, even to those with little knowledge of accountancy.
On the contrary, officials who expose deficiencies rather than being prepared to conceal them are sidelined and hit with disciplinary proceedings.
It just leaves a bit of a bad taste in the mouth when we in this House always discharge ourselves or our own Secretary-General.
The conclusion of consultancy contracts by private treaty by the body known as the Kosovo Agency, involving in one case a monthly fee in excess of EUR 25 000, was evidently the result of pressure from the Commission - a pernicious influence, in my opinion, which casts an alarming light on the Commission's dealings with agencies in general.
Mr President, at last the Committee on Budgetary Control has decided to recommend granting discharge to the Commission.
Throughout this procedure we have all been aware of the well-documented flaws in the accountancy system, which were first highlighted back in 1994.
The reform of the accountancy system is essential.
As shown by the committee last week, nearly all the MEPs on the Committee on Budgetary Control have been responsive to the clear efforts made by the Commission to deliver our demands.
I would like to congratulate the Secretary-General and the President of the European Parliament on the way they have run the administration over the past three years.
But we cannot admonish the Commission for wasting taxpayers' money when we spend willy-nilly on things that are, frankly, a total waste of money.
Every month thousands of parliamentary assistants and administrators leave Brussels to travel 400 miles to work here in Strasbourg.
It is wholly unnecessary to use EUR 173 million each year in order to respect historical treaties.
They are voting against all of these points about transparency within Parliament, and frankly they are a bunch of hypocrites!
Mr President, it is always a great pleasure to follow one of the Commission's chief apologists.
About the promises we received of how things were going to get better for 2005 - but of course some Members forget that we are actually dealing with the accounts for 2001 and exactly how they were reflected.
Mrs Morgan said that she and her group are facing problems head-on.
Mr President, on 1 April we celebrated the entry into force of the Cotonou Agreement, and the fact that this gives the go-ahead for the ninth European Development Fund.
The Council does not concentrate on strategic issues, but instead is involved with 50 management committees intended to enable the micro-management of individual projects.
I would therefore add my voice to that of the Committee on Budgetary Control in its wish for the incorporation of the European Development Fund into the budget.
Direct budgetary support already amounts to EUR 2 604 million, although we know that it involves great risks, which the rapporteur has explained very well.
The question of the extent to which support is granted under Article 24 of the Staff Regulations is currently under consideration.
On the accounting system, let me reiterate that, in the year 2000, we commissioned a study to review the accounting system.
That was in 2001.
And then, still in the year 2001, the Commission published a working paper on the reform of the accounting system.
The Court of Auditors has once again informed the Committee on Budgetary Control of its annual audit.
I should like to thank Parliament, and particularly the Committee on Budgetary Control, for its critical but unstinting support.
It is the ambition of the Prodi Commission to ensure that the entire process of reforming the Commission is properly concluded by the end of 2004.
Firstly, I wish to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy for their cooperation in producing this report.
It is important that the European Parliament continue to monitor developments in Hong Kong and this report provides an important update on many issues, not least on Article 23, the proposed anti-sedition legislation, on which we passed a resolution in December 2002.
Given the fact that there have been over twenty deaths and almost one thousand recorded cases of the disease in Hong Kong, it is appropriate that the report should refer to this problem.
The final sentence of Amendment No 53 has not been superseded.
The aim is the establishment of a European network of national contact points, designed to permit a permanent exchange of information on restorative justice and on one of its most commonly applied methods of resolving disputes, namely mediation.
Mr President, the shadow rapporteurs and I should like to propose that Amendment No 15 be taken as an addition.
Amendment No 15 therefore concerns Paragraph 65 b.
We propose a split vote into two parts, and we recommend rejecting the first part of Paragraph 66 and accepting the second part, which begins with 'also regrets that after the assurances etc.' - (FR) We are very pleased to join in the protest against the harassment which Yannick Bigah is undergoing in Togo.
The European Parliament's call for a kind of safe-conduct to protect certain associations from the dictatorship is better than nothing, but it would be preferable for it to protest against the dictatorship itself.
It is an important element of regional statistics and provides the basis for determining regional eligibility for obtaining structural funds.
I welcome in particular the broad degree of consensus between the three Institutions on the text after first reading in Council, which fully accepted Parliament's position, which was adopted at first reading.
Lastly, I believe the proposal to create a level 4 is important because there is a clear need to create territorial subdivisions, otherwise, we will see inflated levels of wealth in zones made up of one centre with powerful growth and of others with very low rates of growth, far below the average levels attained by the zone ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 37(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) I have voted in favour of this report because I agree with the rapporteur's assessment, which received the broad support of the committee.
I also supported, in particular, the rapporteur's suggestion to involve the candidate countries more closely before they join the Union.
The main aim of the text which we have just voted on is to guarantee the safety of bovine artificial insemination; but there is another aspect of this activity which has not been sufficiently taken into account thus far, that is the biodiversity or genetic diversity of bovine breeds.
I am pleased that my report has been adopted almost unanimously by the House. - (FR) This agreement, like so many others of its kind, illustrates the way that the European Union wraps up its policy of pillaging the resources of developing-world countries in hypocritical observations.
What this report reveals of the conditions of what must be called pure and simple pillaging can only provoke disgust.
While we were talking about the report on the European Development Fund, he advised me not only to vote for it but also to ask Parliament what happens to the funding for development, for we know that the money invested in the development of the regions of southern Italy, for example, has left Brussels and Strasbourg but has never reached the European citizens of Sicily, Calabria or the regions of southern Italy, or the European citizens of many other regions whose development is lagging behind, for that matter.
I wish to highlight the need to promote and diversify cooperation between the EU and Macao, and I hope that this report and its approval will make a vital contribution to all EU bodies' involvement in promoting this cooperation.
One such amendment emphasises the particular importance the Chinese authorities attach to Portuguese language speaking and the enormous recognition given by the European Parliament to Portuguese which is, in terms of the number of speakers, Europe's third most important world language. - (FR) The 2000 and 2001 Commission reports on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are distressing.
The reduction of the number of Community texts which the Commission has planned since 1990 is just the mechanical consequence of the final stages of the implementation of the Single European Act.
The Convention on the Future of Europe currently sitting would like to strengthen this role.
I think that this is the justification for this report, because simply listing the Commission's actions does not constitute a report on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
Under the principle of subsidiarity, I welcome giving national parliaments a monitoring role through an early-warning system, the obligation on the Commission and the European Union to give reasons justifying every proposal and, in general, all measures that favour greater transparency in invoking and applying the principle.
Portugal has always stood out from other Member States where road fatality statistics are concerned.
I therefore welcome this report, which contributes to improving road safety on the one hand through new technologies such as driving simulators and, on the other, through ongoing training courses for professional drivers.
My only regret is that this directive applies only to new drivers starting in the profession five or six years after the directive's entry into force.
This is an issue which has a great impact on most Member States, both current and future, given that this training is currently only compulsory in France and the Netherlands.
It is extremely important that the entry into force of this directive should not be retroactive and, consequently, that no provision derived from this act can be applied to drivers already working in the profession.
These aspects have been crucial in ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) The adoption of any measure intended to improve road traffic safety is greatly to be welcomed.
I therefore believe that the compulsory periodic training of drivers of heavy goods vehicles in all Member States is entirely appropriate.
For this reason, and in addition to the proposal before us, I support all the measures to encourage this re-balance between means of transport and a better use of transport networks at European level.
The phrase 'Erasmus World' reminds me of Fantasy World, Adventure World and Future World, in other words of Disney World.
The Erasmus World programme will enable us to respond to these challenges by stimulating the quality of higher education and by promoting cultural exchanges in cooperation with third countries.
Hence the importance of this report, which I support.
The success of this programme will only be assured by a budget increase that will provide the various projects with appropriate funding, and also by the rigorous selection of the candidates, establishments and teaching staff.
Scholarships that are awarded must enable all categories of candidates to participate in these exchanges.
It is particularly important to publicise this programme through communication and information projects and by drafting common working instruments that do not constitute barriers to the movement of candidates.
We must prepare the citizens of Europe and partner third countries to live and work in a society where knowledge is an imperative, strengthen the attraction of Europe as a centre of excellence for higher education and, lastly, increase mutual understanding between peoples and cultures through exchanges and structural cooperation.
Therefore, given that Article 149 of the EC Treaty stresses the 'responsibility of the Member States for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity', the integrity of the guiding academic principles, starting with the academic neutrality of teaching and the independence of teachers, must absolutely be guaranteed.
We must avoid negative trends, rightly condemned by a group of many French university professors at the Jean Bodin University Monitoring Centre, in certain Community education programmes, particularly the Jean Monnet Chairs; in spite of their obvious educational value, the latter sometimes fulfil an ideological propaganda function that is no less obvious, a function naturally incompatible with the normal performance of teachers' tasks.
It is, therefore, also with us in mind that I have used my vote to subscribe to this Erasmus World programme.
We must also develop measures to encourage the positive effects of this type of programme, without allowing their increase in number to lead to a fall in quality. - (FR) 'Erasmus Mundus', which seeks to strengthen ties between the universities of every continent by creating an exchange system for students, lecturers and researchers, is also creating centres of excellence for university teaching and research on our continent and seeks to make our universities, if we dare say it, competitive in the global market of higher education, by finally giving our students the means to obtain degrees with a European dimension.
The provision of genuinely European studies, unprecedented in terms of the number of students concerned, and by their visibility in Europe itself and also in other continents, will in the future allow every young European to choose their path: either national or European.
This will be an advantage both for students' personal development and for their integration into the labour market, also considering the prospects for innovation in Europe.
The implementation of the 'Erasmus Mundus' programme must lead European companies to build lasting partnerships with universities, an essential means to give European courses the means for their excellence, to put European universities at the forefront of the international scene, to slow the brain drain from Europe to the United States, and to ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Mr Mauro, you have proposed and succeeded in obtaining from the European Parliament the appropriation of EUR 54 million for education and training, which will make it possible to train teachers in how to teach students new information and communication technologies.
As a representative of the Pensioners' Party and of the elderly of Europe, I therefore request EUR 54 million to train teachers in how to teach pensioners and the elderly.
The amendments that have been tabled improve the Commission's proposal and this report gives a considerable boost to achieving the goal of a knowledge-based society.
In budgetary terms, the percentage earmarked for preparatory actions must be increased and the percentage for fighting the digital divide must be reduced, because there are other Community instruments that could address these more appropriately.
A large majority of schools in the Member States are connected to the Internet, but few teachers use this as a teaching tool.
The only thing is that, to those who have focused so much on this entire area, it must be stated that the sums involved are too low, especially given the desire to encourage the integration of the new information and communication technologies into the various European education and training systems, thereby improving their quality and accessibility.
One only has to look at the data supplied on schools' connections and the use of the Internet by teachers to understand the enormous discrepancies and major inequalities that remain in the European Union.
I would further draw particular attention to the role that the new technologies can play in the Outermost Regions which, due to all the constraints they face and to their current situation, need support in preparing for the digital age.
What is of particular significance is that the report underlines the fact that the programme is not designed to replace the Member States' actions in this sector, but to support and complement them.
With the eLearning (electronic education) programme, integrated into the e-Europe initiative (speeding up the acceptance of digital technologies throughout Europe and ensuring that all Europeans have the necessary skills to use them), the Commission has proposed a framework that will be productive for the growing use of the new technologies in education and training.
European educational services and programmes, speeding up the networking of schools and teachers, through European platforms and virtual classrooms - these are some of the necessary responses, in the exchange of good practice ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 37(1) of the Rules of Procedure - (FR) NICTs, new information and communication technologies, inevitably result in a new model, a new paradigm based on new relations between students, knowledge and teachers, and they are producing and proposing an educational reorganisation in the world of teaching.
The principle aim of using and integrating NICTs in the field of education must be to improve the conditions of student learning and their relations with the world.
These new technologies today offer education an unprecedented opportunity to satisfy an increasingly large and diversified demand for teaching.
In casting our vote, we have voted to retain the basis of the Belgian initiative concerning funding via the Member States' voluntary contributions and concerning coordination, and have thus voted against the amendment of the report that seeks to establish a secretariat controlled by the Commission and funded via the EU's general budget. - (FR) The European area of security and justice must be integrated into the Treaty on European Union and thus bind the new candidate countries.
International cooperation in the field of justice and the fight against all forms of crime, including terrorism, must be intensified.
Citizens are free within the Union, but they may also become a victim of an offence in one of the Member States.
If a European network of national contact points is set up that takes into consideration the Member States' various internal criminal justice solutions, which have arisen out of their legal systems and traditions, it will enhance the exchange of information and the adoption of good practice without destroying the individuality of the national legal systems or creating artificial structures that clash with them.
The real problem, however, is the Schengen cooperation's closure of the external borders.
For the eighth time in succession, the European Court of Auditors has refused to issue the Commission with a statement of assurance as to the reliability of its accounts.
The glaring accounting deficiencies in the Commission which first came to light in the spring of 2002 encourage fraud and carelessness.
A European Union with this sort of administration cannot fulfil the exacting requirements arising from enlargement and from the continuing process of integration.
Mr President, in the final vote, our group voted against the Casaca report.
He stopped me and said, 'Listen, Carlo, you who are now a Member of the European Parliament, ask Parliament - when you debate the Avilés Perea report, which concerns the Committee of the Regions, amongst other things - to give the regions more importance, to give them legislative power, even if it is only partial legislative power, and to allow the elected representatives of the regions throughout Europe to sit in the European Parliament too'.
Indeed, I believe it would be better for us Members to arrive in good time rather than having to run, as I have had to in this dream'.
Mr President, I strongly support the report by Mr Staes.
As the rapporteur points out, Parliament's moving between Brussels and Strasbourg entails additional costs for taxpayers amounting to approximately EUR 169 million per year.
The solution is for Parliament's activities to be concentrated in one place of work.
The European Convention can make an important contribution by giving impetus to the debate on Parliament's seat so that change really can come about.
I had to devote all my speaking time for the discharge procedure to the Casaca report concerning the European Commission's annual accounts for 2001.
Consequently, I did not have the chance to express my approval for the Staes report concerning discharge for section I, Parliament itself.
He rightly points out the EUR 169 million annual expense of having building complexes in three cities, EUR 40 million of which is for additional staff.
He also draws attention to the additional costs of EUR 3.9 million for travelling to and fro between Brussels and Strasbourg and the loss of 25 855 working days per year.
This is better than laying down a division of the job between Strasbourg and Brussels, as stated in the 1997 Treaty or in a future constitution of a superstate which it will be scarcely possible to amend.
Even the rapporteur's criticism of the constant necessity of dealing with land speculators when extending buildings in Brussels is spot on.
This vote does not express any reservations on the management of the 2001 budget by the European Parliament.
On the contrary, it expresses my opposition to the rapporteur's attempts, supported by 13 members of his committee, to assume powers which fall under the competence of either the Member States (such as deciding the seat of the institutions), or bodies other than Parliament (property policy, and so on).
I have to say that, just now, when I was walking in front of the hemicycle, I met a crowd of pensioners and elderly people who were visiting the European Parliament.
Well then, please will you tell the European Parliament that Europe must be a Europe of steel, because in this situation of the war in Iraq it has seemed to me to be a Europe of butter.
It is really very strange, therefore, that the efforts of governments have not been the subject of intense debate in the national parliaments.
The conventions date from 1961, 1971 and 1988.
In 2003, however, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is making known that virtually all of the Member States of the EU have developed alternative strategies.
Different drugs have different groups of users.
I have opted, as a rapporteur, to put down on paper a recommendation that will help that political debate, in particular, on its way.
Instead, I opted - and this has the support of a majority in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs - to argue in favour of a careful evaluation of the effectiveness of the UN Conventions on drugs.
It is an evaluation followed by a conference of the United Nations in 2004 to discuss the conclusions resulting from it.
The evaluation will of course be important in the long-term, and in the short-term it is important that we now agree on a reclassification of drugs.
After all, cannabis and heroin are currently in the same category, and I really think that we can agree that the use of heroin does more harm than smoking a joint.
The Commission is delighted at the presence of four European Parliament representatives at the meeting of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs as well as in the ministerial segment.
You all know that the Community is not party to the 1961 and 1971 Conventions and is party only to the 1988 Convention but, in this case, with its mandate restricted to the question of chemical precursors.
For my part, I should like to reiterate to the House that not just the Commission but the Union as a whole upholds the importance of evaluating the strategies that have been followed in relation to drugs.
Last November the Commission carried out an interim evaluation of the European Union's 2000-2004 drugs action plan, the results of which we intend to present at the Vienna meeting.
We are therefore pleased that the United Nations has commenced a similar evaluation process and we hope that the conclusions on the evaluation of the European Union's action plan and the United Nations' own conclusions can reinforce each other and provide a clearer clarification of the issues at stake in the implementation of the relevant conventions.
In other words, she is calling from the outset for an amendment of the Single Convention of 1961 and for the deletion of cannabis from the list of prohibited products.
And you will ultimately be guaranteeing the proliferation of drugs instead of waging all-out war against them, which ought to be our aim.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats - and I say this here as their spokesman - are resolutely opposed to the free availability of cannabis.
Almost 8% of 15- to 19-year-olds smoke pot daily, and 75% of young people think that cannabis is harmless, even though several studies produced by the medical profession indicate conclusively that the use of cannabis poses physical and, more especially, psychological risks and that it leads to addiction.
In short, there is absolutely no reason to liberalise the sale and use of any narcotic drugs, including cannabis, or to remove cannabis from the list of prohibited substances.
That is what we are demanding as an alternative to the proposals contained in this report, and we hope that a majority of the House will support us in tomorrow's vote, because we want to protect our young people, and for their sake we are resolutely opposed to any amendment of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
This is why we hope that common sense will prevail in the European Parliament and that we can take this common sense majority view to the Vienna conference in order to reinforce the United Nations in its efforts to combat narcotic drugs and to make it clear to the UN that we support the preservation of the Single Convention and that we shall do our utmost to oppose any liberalisation and legalisation of narcotic drugs.
I have witnessed the fact that this was not easy, given the particularly animated debates which the issue aroused when it was considered by our committee.
It must also be said that the Buitenweg report in no way seeks to make short work of the issue of decriminalising drugs, even soft drugs, but addresses solely and exclusively two issues: the effectiveness and relevance of the current system and the need to reclassify substances.
Nevertheless, reclassification of substances on no account means proposing the non-prescription sale of cannabis or its further legalisation.
I therefore hope that we can achieve the broadest support possible for this report, in order to make real headway in our common desire to repair the damage caused by drug addiction.
I have had an absence of approximately three years from this Parliament, and I am extremely surprised at the stormy, heated debates on this report - even within my own group, I have to say in fairness.
It is about us all wanting to curb the production, traffic in and abuse of drugs, in particular the abuse of extremely harmful drugs.
I am of the opinion that one should only venture to propose changes to the policy on the basis of correct, clear data.
The three United Nations Conventions that are the backcloth to the resolution we are debating today and will vote on tomorrow take centre stage in this.
The 1998 action plan of the United Nations General Assembly is another step in that direction, and we have now reached mid-term in the ten-year evaluation period defined at that time.
It is not difficult to recognise, then, that the main reason why we cannot yet claim a 100% success rate in the fight against drugs, along the lines set by these three conventions, is that this fight is still not really being conducted in a truly international framework.
This report, or rather its explanatory statement, is a good example of just that.
There are still countries even in the European Union, such as the Netherlands, for instance, which are trying out policies in a different direction, and one might even wonder whether this calls into question the common security framework in the Schengen area.
These are the weaknesses on which we must focus our attention in the run-up to the Vienna meeting on 16 and 17 April.
As an informed, responsible Parliament, we must not send the Union's representatives at this meeting a single wrong sign, a single sign of weakness, a single sign of giving up.
This resolution got off to a bad start.
Afterwards, during the debates in committee, there were efforts to reconcile different viewpoints and limit areas of disagreement but, despite these efforts, the matter is so sensitive that, as representative of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I decided to propose an alternative resolution that could give us absolute political certainty.
The United Nations Ministerial Conference on drugs is approaching rapidly; or rather, it is starting today, and goes on until 17 April.
The conference on drugs organised by the Greek Presidency turned out to be a fiasco for the anti-prohibitionists.
The Member States refused to make a declaration pushing, among other things, for an amendment of the UN conventions.
As a fellow citizen of the Netherlands, I am familiar with the pros and cons of our policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are some Members who have decided to speak not on the Buitenweg report but on motives or on the recommendation on which it is based.
These Members like to try and divide the House into those who are against drugs, meaning themselves, those who are for our children and young people, meaning themselves, and those who are for drugs and have got it in for all our children.
I am glad to say that, today, the European Parliament is called upon to debate that which falls within its remit: not the issue of free, legal, prohibited drugs, therefore, but the evaluation and possible reform of the current policies.
All sorts of things were tried, even financial agreements with the Taliban - European funding was given to the Taliban regime before September 11 to pay for the eradication of the opium plantations.
Now, five years later, we are debating the situation as it stands, not expressing ideological points of view.
I would like to see you accept this equation of cannabis with heroin if it was your son or your daughter who was smoking cannabis or using heroin.
I hope that the Members of all the political parties will, at least, take up the challenge to debate and evaluate the situation rather than hold forth on ideological views.
In actual fact, for many years, the UN has been maintaining a position against drug producers and pushers, clearly indicating the degree to which the different substances are dangerous and vehemently upholding the need to combat illegal trafficking and the spread of crime at all levels.
After the 1961 UN Convention, there were further declarations: in 1971, 1988 and 1998.
Although it takes these broad premises as a starting point and appears to be well balanced, the report then comes more or less directly to the usual conclusions which regularly divide Parliament and public opinion too - that soft drugs, particularly cannabis, should be liberalised and legalised and that a distinction should be made between soft and hard drugs.
Some of the Members asked just now how the report could be interpreted in that way, but the points are there if one reads the report carefully.
The report also appears to be deficient in that it does not combine the proposals for measures in the current situation with pre-emptive initiatives to limit the phenomenon in the future.
These different opinions have already emerged, during the course of the debate in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and it is no coincidence that this report was adopted by 24 votes to 20.
She has had a very difficult task; getting a consensus on this issue is impossible.
That majority will largely reflect the views of the people across the European Union.
There is nothing in the report that is contrary to that.
We have heard some amazing things from Mr Pirker, Mr Santini, Mr Blokland and others which make one wonder how they chose to interpret the remarks in this report.
Mr Pirker, you said a few minutes ago that if you voted in favour of this report, you would be against the health of our young people.
Furthermore you said that if you voted in favour of this report you would be helping drug dealers.
Really, if you read that into this report, I suggest that you go back and have another read of it.
There is absolutely no evidence that zero tolerance is a serious, effective, or even practical policy to follow when we are trying to address this issue.
Yes, Mr Pirker, I am looking at the same report as you.
Mr President, in the vast majority of cases I am prepared to support a compromise for the common good of the EU and to listen and form impressions, but definitely not today.
Ladies and gentlemen, you need to know that there are two clear policies in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
To those fellow MEPs - and there are some even in my own group - who say that I am inflexible and do not appreciate the importance of changes, I would say that, inflexible I may be, but I am also aware of what is behind this resolution.
You should reject the resolution.
Attempts by governments to suppress the use of certain drugs are as old as their failure.
A policy on narcotic drugs needs to be a humanist policy, which means for example that drugs should be assessed on the basis of their actual effects on the human body; in other words, impact should take precedence over legality.
Drugs are, indeed, a problem threatening citizens' health, security and quality of life, and that is why the European Parliament has committed itself to finding an effective solution to the drugs problem, which is a problem common to all countries and all social groups.
The three conventions governing the narcotics issue have already been mentioned here: the 1961 one on narcotics, the 1971 one on psychotropic substances and the 1988 Vienna Convention against the illicit traffic in these substances.
These three conventions prohibit the production, traffic, sale and consumption of a wide range of substances for other than medical or scientific purposes.
What the rapporteur wants - and she does not hide this - is to change the list of prohibited substances so that cannabis can be removed from this list, which, whether you like it or not, will lead to the legalisation of trade in this drug.
I do not believe that supporting a movement to liberalise drugs can or should be the solution for an effective fight against the growing drug problem.
We have to observe the existing conventions and strengthen the means for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts; we have to observe the principle of subsidiarity, given that there are different drugs policies in the various Member States.
The major international meeting this April will decide to launch an evaluation of these conventions.
This could be an opportunity to open a broad debate on the matter.
The report we have here has considerable impact.
It is time to remember that the Member States are the ones which organise, ratify and write these conventions and that they may have now decided to reach a political position which is certainly more logical, coordinated and above all, more responsible in this field.
Mr President, I should like first to congratulate the United States of America, the puppet masters at this convention.
So it should simply be common sense to evaluate current policies, assess their effectiveness and consider alternative options.
My view - and my hope - is that prohibition will one day be replaced by government regulation; but I do not say that this is a policy which should be imposed on every nation.
I say to my Swedish colleagues and to the United States that they should be free to develop the drugs policies they think appropriate for their own nations, but that others should be free to develop their own strategies to explore more effective solutions to deal with this terribly difficult problem.
Mr Cappato even goes so far as to maintain that it is not drugs but the illicit nature of their use which is to blame for the marginalisation of drug addicts.
The European Parliament has a chance to protect young people from drug dealers and their friends by voting against the report or radically reformulating it.
I have a totally different belief in that regard, in that I do not believe that every individual has the right to choose his own addiction - as I have heard proclaimed on Dutch television once or twice.
Furthermore, the Netherlands has had a rude awakening.
Mr President, the Swedish Social Democrats, including myself, believe that the UN conventions on drugs should form the basis of the EU's drugs policy, and we wish this basis to remain in place.
The second part, relating to control, is also important, but it is only one of three parts.
Treatment and rehabilitation are obvious elements of any humane and effective drugs policy aimed at ending the demand for drugs, halting their proliferation and preventing drug-related crime.
I myself come from a society in which all young people have opportunities of receiving an education, bettering their social position and improving their lot.
Mrs Buitenweg's report urges a review of the UN conventions and the reclassification of drugs.
The long-term aim seems to be a free market for certain drugs and then for all drugs and, subsequently, the decriminalisation of drug misuse.
The pressure is increasing upon young people and families.
The conference for the mid-term review of the UN action plan to be held in Vienna gives us a chance to hold a scientifically documented debate on the effectiveness of the measures applied to date.
The UN conventions on drugs are an important framework for successful policy.
Nor should we forget that these conventions were drawn up in 1961, 1971 and 1988.
Today's recommendation by the European Parliament basically moves in this direction and I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur.
This recommendation does not come down for or against the legalisation of addictive substances.
On the contrary, it calls for our policies on this very difficult issue to be up-to-date, adequate, effective and, most importantly, to prevent the problems, not punish the users.
A restrictive drugs policy, in other words zero tolerance, is the only way to adopt a position on drugs.
In the Nordic countries we have managed to control the drugs problem to a greater extent than elsewhere in Europe.
The question of attitude to drugs is one of principle.
Europe's society cannot continue to tolerate that and to pursue policies that are clearly failing.
I have visited housing estates where grandmothers are rearing grandchildren because the parents have died, not from an overdose of cannabis or even of heroin, but because they used dirty needles to inject themselves with heroin or took impure heroin.
Not only do Swedish Christian Democrats reject this view; but so also, tomorrow, will a majority of Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, like other colleagues, I too welcome the opportunity for this debate even though I would vehemently disagree with some of those who propose support for this resolution.
Some of those individual rights and common good goals mean that individual freedom of action and movement is diminished, but the purpose is not to restrict a person from doing something they want to do, but because it is for the greater good to ensure that person cannot do it.
As someone who has worked with young drug addicts and young alcoholics in the past, I know that nothing is more calculated to send out the wrong message than proposals calling for the legalisation of illegal substances.
It is ironic that at a time when the European Union and this Parliament are striving to diminish smoking because of its serious health consequences, in another area we are trying to allow people to freely damage their own health with drugs that have been proved to damage health and create other problems.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, in the European Union there are 12 million legal immigrants from third countries.
Entry and residence for reasons of family reunification is, in almost all the Member States of the Union, the main route for legal immigration by nationals of third countries.
This family immigration consists of both family reunification in the strict sense - the reunification of family members with a third-country national who is already resident - and the reunification of a family when the family ties are established after the entry of the third-country national.
Persons authorised to enter as family members, as a percentage of all immigrants, varies from 40 to 50%, and this figure is even higher in certain Member States of the Union such as France or the United Kingdom.
While recognising the importance of this aspect of legal immigration in quantitative terms, it is also important to stress the fundamental role played by family reunification as a necessary means for achieving the integration of third-country nationals legally residing in the European Union.
The presence of family members provides these people with greater stability and greater integration, by allowing them to lead a normalised family life.
The majority of family members admitted on the basis of the right to family reunification have a great advantage, compared to other types of immigrant, since they already maintain very close links with a person - the person who is being reunified with their family - who is already established in the receiving country, which makes it far easier for them to integrate.
Legislation on family reunification must be governed by two principles, which must also be applied in all legislation on immigration.
I will not go back over the whole history of this proposed directive we are discussing today, since I assume you are aware of it, but I must refer to the first political agreement on legal immigration which was reached at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 28 February, on the Council Directive on the right to family reunification.
I am aware of the difficulties involved in reaching agreements on such sensitive issues as immigration issues, which are approached and regulating in very different specific ways in the various Member States.
With regard to the conditions for exercising the right to family reunification, we maintain the reasons of public order, security and public health when it comes to granting that right.
I have withdrawn all the amendments relating to subsidiary protection in exchange for a commitment from the Commission to present a directive to harmonise this issue in the European Union as soon as possible.
In the event of widowhood, divorce, separation or death an autonomous residence permit may be obtained if the person in question has been resident for at least one year.
In general, there are certain aspects which I believe to be positive, such as: the exemption of refugees from the requirement that they must demonstrate that they are in a position to maintain their families, the adoption of flexible criteria with regard to refugees in relation to proof of kinship and authorisation of alternative proof in the event that documentary proof is not a possibility; furthermore, family members are generally granted the same residence rights as the head of the family, family members are granted the same rights in terms of access to education, self-employed and salaried work and to family guidance and the special needs of unaccompanied minors are recognised.
I must say, however, that the political agreement reached on 28 February is far from what this Parliament proposed in certain areas, because it reduces its scope and it is required that there is a reasonable prospect of obtaining the right to long-term residence.
Finally, I would repeat that I have decided to withdraw all the amendments which included people receiving subsidiary protection in the scope in exchange for a commitment from the Council to approve the directive presented by the Commission on 12 September 2001, on the minimum rules on the requirements and status available to third-country citizens and stateless persons in order to be refugees or beneficiaries or other types of international protection, which would include the right to family reunification.
For these reasons and for the reasons that have been fully explained previously in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home affairs, I would ask this House to support this report.
The new amended proposal for a directive on the right to family reunification, on which the European Parliament is to make a decision today, was adopted by the Commission in response to the mandate given by the Heads of State and Government meeting in Laeken on 15 December 2001.
The European Council confirmed at that time that a common asylum and immigration policy presupposed the establishment of common rules on the subject of family reunification.
The European Council recognised, however, that progress on this was slower and less substantial than expected and that new impetus and new guidelines were needed in order to make up for the delay.
To this end, the European Council called on the Council of Ministers to speed up its work and asked it to approve the provisions on family reunification by July 2003.
The Commission considers that family reunification is an essential element in the successful integration of third country nationals into European societies.
This proposal is thus just the first stage towards such harmonisation.
To this end, we have enshrined a certain amount of flexibility in several of the instruments, especially in relation to the points that caused differences between the Member States.
This flexibility is incorporated in two ways: first, as regards the background, through the use of a standstill clause, the idea of which is to prevent Member States from misusing derogations introduced subsequently in relation to the legislation in force at the time this directive is adopted; there is a kind of freeze on the level of protection for family reunification as it exists today in the legislation of the Member States.
Secondly, the Commission is introducing a rendezvous clause, which lays down a period of two years after the transposition of the directive and specifies exactly which provisions must be subjected to priority review so as to open up the second phase, the second stage in the process of harmonising national legislation.
It is obviously a question of those provisions that are considered more sensitive, such as the definition of family members and the possibility of also covering family members of Community citizens who have not made use of their right to freedom of movement.
The admission of unmarried partners, relatives in the ascending line and adult children, on the other hand, becomes optional for the Member States, which must decide on this through legislation or regulation.
A derogation will also allow Member States to retain national laws relating to their reception capacity when examining applications for family reunification.
In such cases, depending on the reception capacity, applications may be dealt with in stages, provided that the family members' waiting period is not longer than three years.
Lastly, the provisions dealing with the family reunification of refugees were put together in the same chapter to reflect better the specific nature of their situation.
I thank the rapporteur and Parliament for supporting this debate throughout the three long years that our journey together has taken.
We in the European Parliament are asked today to deliver our opinion on a solution to the problem of reunifying the families of non-EU citizens, a solution that is both humane and realistic.
It gives people from non-EU countries the chance to live in and with their families in the European Union while also avoiding a drastic increase in the level of immigration into our Member States.
The Council has already reached a political agreement to accept the Commission draft.
The Council, at its meeting on 8 May, can therefore be expected to base its decision on the Commission's draft, which is a more realistic document.
For this reason, my wish for today and for the future is that our decisions should not be coloured by ideological party manifestos but that, in the parliamentary processes which are still pending, we should agree on constructive, practical and coherent policies that the people of our countries can endorse.
Mr President, before beginning my speech, I would propose the following exercise, both to the people who are present and to those who are absent, because there is nobody here from the Council, although there should be.
Despite this, and without much success, we in the PSE are prepared to reach an agreement and continue talking.
It is a fact that family reunifications among third country citizens contribute between 40 and 50% of the total number of immigrants into the EU.
On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I have supported the proposed amendment that creates a wider definition of family and also brings third country citizens with subsidiary protection within the rules on family reunification.
But we might ask ourselves whether it is not a question of a fool's bargain, as asserted by certain fellow Members, since the Council already reached an agreement in February, with which Commissioner Vitorino was satisfied.
Therefore allow me, in turn, to express doubts over the desire to take the opinion of the European Parliament into account.
While harmonisation of national laws is necessary, is this taking place based on compliance with the rights and protection of third-country nationals, in the very spirit of the Tampere agreements, or will the transposal of this directive on the contrary be the pretext, for some, for a reduction in the level of protection already guaranteed by the Member States?
By increasing the conditions of entry, for example, for children and choosing between qualified and non-qualified job-seekers, Europe is becoming a fortress.
This policy plays no part in creating a European citizenship which upholds the values of tolerance, democracy and solidarity in accordance with, in particular, the Geneva Convention and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
In France, whether the Minister of the Interior likes it or not, the total number of permanent entries totalled 119 000 people in 2002, that is, less than the figure for 1998, and the principal reason for this migration remains, in 77% of cases, family reunification.
Mr President, today, the European Parliament is again taking a position over the Council's proposal on family reunification.
In this connection, we should remember that the Council has already laid down a general approach, on 27 February this year.
If we take into consideration the Tampere Summit, which sought to establish a common approach in order to guarantee, in accordance with human rights instruments, the integration of third-country nationals legally resident in the Union, this new approach is a genuine downward adjustment.
As certain Members are saying, it is true that this directive is better than nothing when we know of the difficulties encountered to reach this point.
The definition of a third-country national child should be the same as that of another European child.
A waiting time of three years of marriage is much too long.
Yet the principle of the right to live as a family is simple.
The stipulated period of five years before an autonomous residence permit is granted to the spouse is much too long.
The lack of legal autonomy often makes women totally dependent on their husbands, which is unacceptable in a Europe that upholds women's rights.
This proposal for a directive is the result of a philosophy which conflicts with that adopted last year.
The idea is always the same: to promote ever more immigration in Europe and to make the right to family reunification the driving force behind this Community policy.
One month ago, the European Union's Justice and Home Affairs Council reached a difficult consensus on the directive on family reunification.
Even a homosexual partnership, for instance, is seen here as equivalent to a family relationship.
But if you want to avoid their being uprooted as a result, why do you never consider, in these times of unemployment, the possibility of organising family reunification in the countries of origin?
It is our duty to put an end to this suicidal policy that is being pursued by Europe.
I consider it especially encouraging, for the sake of the labour market in the European Union, the social safety net and the interests of the Union with regard to the integration of non-EU nationals, that the concept of the family introduced in this draft is that of the nuclear family, in other words that the family as defined in the draft is restricted to parents and minor children.
We utterly reject, however, the proposals tabled by the rapporteur, which would extend the concept of family far beyond the limits that the European Union can accept as a tolerable basis for its immigration policy.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
As others have said, we should recognise the importance of this agreement because it is the first legislative instrument to be passed at European level on legal immigration.
Mr President, the report contains proposals which, if they were binding, might go some way towards reducing the difficulties that we are experiencing with family reunification.
However, it does not go far enough and some of the amendments proposed are a step backwards and we will reject them.
The national States and the European institutions can put up all the barbed wire they like, both literally and in legal terms, to prevent this happening, but they will not succeed.
When I was researching for the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on issues relating to the migration of workers, I was told by employers' organisations that family reunification was a crucial factor in people's decisions on whether or not they were going to come and work in the European Union.
They wanted to know whether their spouses or their partners would be able to work; they wanted to know what access to education their children would have; and they also wanted to know which of their children were not going to be allowed in and were maybe going to have to stay with other relatives while they did exams at the ages of fifteen, sixteen and so forth.
All families want to stay together and they have a right under international law and agreements to stay together.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive on family reunification has been rearing its ugly head in the European Parliament periodically since 1999.
It keeps a low profile on most of the provisions contested by the Council as if it were giving in, but introduces a new Article 19 at the end of the text explaining that all of these matters will be re-examined no more than two years later.
Subsequently, the Commission will use these points in its favour to return to the attack, all the more so given that Article 19 already states which provisions will have to be amended.
The Commission and the European Parliament dream of imposing an a priori extension of this right on the Member States, but it is out of the question that they would let this happen.
We therefore think that this directive would serve no purpose and would be dangerous for the Member States, particularly since the Convention on the Future of Europe is showing a willingness to have all of these issues decided by qualified majority.
Mr President, I should like to intervene very briefly pursuant to Rule 122 to make a personal statement, because aspersions have been cast on me by Mr Evans.
You are right, Mr Evans, that my wife's family is from the Far East and that as a result they do live more than 10 000 kilometres away.
But neither they nor my brothers-in-law nor my wife's cousins have ever considered that the fact that she had become my wife gave them an automatic right to remain and be resident for life in the territory of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by pointing out that establishing common standards on the question of family reunification is for us an important element in a real common immigration policy.
I consider this solution of a multi-stage process a judicious one, as it provides for great flexibility on the points where there is still stalemate, while at the same time granting national legislations some room for manoeuvre.
I also congratulate him on the provision he has termed a rendezvous, which establishes that this flexibility and derogation will be subject to priority review after two years.
I should also like to recall that we have here a directive that is attempting to impose minimum standards, whereby the Member States, according to their traditions and national legislation, have every right to adopt more favourable rules on family reunification.
The Commissioner, Mr Pedro Solbes Mira, has the floor.
This afternoon, the Commission has just decided to adopt its recommendation for the employment guidelines for 2003-2005.
It focuses on the contribution economic policies can make to the Union's strategic objective established in Lisbon.
Within the context of rationalisation, and in response to the request from the Spring European Council in Brussels, the economic policy guidelines have experienced a series of changes.
They are more concise and they focus on the key questions of economic policy; their general section has been drastically reduced, as well as the number of guidelines they contain, but, nevertheless, they are still exhaustive and they still deal with all the economic problems, though in a more condensed manner.
With regard to the guidelines by country, these are now clearly structured in accordance with the great specific economic policy challenges of each country.
This also allows greater attention to be paid to the essential issues of economic policy.
This approach, however, does not represent a radical break with the past, since the basic strategy implemented over recent years, particularly since Lisbon, is still valid.
While confirming these strategies, the economic policy guidelines insist on the need for macroeconomic policies to maintain stability and support growth in order to decisively achieve economic reforms and in order to guarantee that growth is sustainable in the face of economic, environmental and social changes.
These guiding principles respond to the agreement on the strengthening of the coordination of budgetary policies laid down in the Commission's Communication last November.
If one thing demonstrates the Union's weakness in the face of a global slowdown, it is undoubtedly the need to further strengthen our economy's capacity for growth and its resistance to shocks.
Naturally, these measures must be supplemented with active labour market measures in order to assist in job-finding.
In order to improve the funding conditions and, in particular, access to funding for small and medium-sized businesses, the capital risk action plan must be fully applied before the end of the year.
Pension reform must be aimed at improving financial sustainability, promoting longer working lives and removing the incentives for early retirements, in order to make more flexible models for professional and employment development possible.
In relation to environmental sustainability, the guidelines maintain that economic growth must not be at the expense of the environment.
To this end, the Member States will have to reduce subsidies, tax exemptions and other incentives which have a negative impact on the environment.
Finally, it also deals with economic policies' contribution to social sustainability.
Employment is the best means of protection against poverty and exclusion, and job creation depends on there being favourable conditions for activity and investment in the private sector.
The Member States must take the necessary measures to improve the functioning of the labour market and to allow salaries to reflect differences in productivity.
I think that today, with the joint presentation of the two packages, we are taking an important step and making an important contribution to improved and faster implementation of the Lisbon objectives, while at the same time taking account of the needs and problems of an enlarged Europe.
It is therefore very important for us to coordinate and step up our efforts so that we can fire growth and help create jobs.
This is the result of broad consultations with Parliament, the social partners and the Member States; it is the result of a thorough analysis and evaluation of the previous five years and, when it was presented for the first time in January, it really did have broad support from the Council.
There are fewer guidelines and they are simpler and, of course, they are very clear as regards the results they must achieve.
The guidelines are not particularly analytical, because employment policies have a strong national dimension and there are questions of subsidiarity, so that every country must, to some degree, select the means it will use.
These three objectives underpin ten priorities which basically cover a broad range of reforms.
They do, of course, follow on from the previous guidelines, but the new factors mainly refer to the question of the ageing population, the need for policies which will keep older workers in the labour market and the question of mobility.
One interesting new factor is undeclared work, which is also a priority of the Italian Presidency.
The Employment Strategy is based on the method of open cooperation.
We have taken account of the analysis of the labour market in each Member State and we have looked at the recommendations in the light and from the point of view of the new guidelines.
There are 57 recommendations to the Member States this year and, of course, I must reiterate the compatibility and cohesion which exists with the timing guidelines to which Mr Solbes referred.
Mr President, what the Commissioners have presented here basically reaffirms the continuation of the Stability Pact policy, the policy that has just been set forth at the Brussels Summit of speeding up liberalisation and making the labour market more flexible.
In other words, it is an insistence on more of the same.
Mr President, quite obviously the European Union is currently experiencing a mild recession and the future is not very bright either.
But economic policy cannot be restricted solely to combating public deficits.
At present, the United States, paradoxically, has a much more pragmatic economic and fiscal policy than Europe.
You could almost say that it is undemocratic that the rapporteur from our committee has to provide a report as early as next week - this coming Friday, to be precise.
The problem is serious enough as it is, but what is even worse is that it will be repeated next year, no doubt in a more serious form.
The Commission does not believe that the problems arising in Europe relate to an expansive fiscal policy.
On the other hand, it has not so far been demonstrated that the countries with expansive fiscal policies achieve better results in terms of growth.
In fact, I would say that the correlation is the opposite: countries with more healthy tax policies are those with the highest growth levels.
I believe that the current problems do not - as I have said many times - relate to the Stability Pact, but that they are problems relating to the reforms necessary to increase our growth potential in Europe.
And this is closely related to the proposals we are making in our broad guidelines.
In my opinion, the modification introduced by the Commission in November on the Stability Pact gives us sufficient room for manoeuvre to confront the current circumstances.
I would like to insist on the need for there to genuinely be effective coordination and effective compliance with the commitments established in the Stability Pacts on the part of the Member States and I believe, on the basis of the proposals that have been made here, that if the Commission does not have greater capacity to influence this compliance in an area such as the use of tax policy, for example, the certainty that the objectives will be achieved is really very limited.
My second question concerns what Commissioner Diamantopoulou mentioned regarding older workers.
Growth, employment and social welfare belong together.
We very often talk about human capital and lifelong learning.
Mr President, I did not understand Mr Andersson's last question.
Of course, no one believes that it is just a question of structural changes, rather than of the overall development of a country, but we cannot ignore these important policies.
Today, the economic situation is such, especially in the pension systems in both the public and private sectors, that it would find it very hard to tolerate this sort of solution.
Therefore, first of all, early retirement cannot be seen as a solution either for companies or for workers, who retire at an active age and find it hard not to be involved in economic life, given that there has been a considerable rise in life expectancy.
Of course, we cannot talk about abolishing early retirement schemes, unless this is accompanied by a decision with policies to keep these people in the labour market.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulos.
Mr President, I want to begin by commenting very briefly on the time frame.
These are unacceptable conditions, but I must not waste any more time talking about this right now.
That, I believe, is above all what basically distinguishes our own labour market from those in the United States, Japan and elsewhere.
The Commissioner has spoken about setting objectives in an area in which those objectives should be of a national nature.
I put it to the Commissioners that one of the things they can do from a practical point of view, to generate pressure on national governments to act, would be to ensure that these guidelines are sent to each individual member of each national parliament in the European Union, rather than going to the secretariats of the national parliaments.
That would result in a significant amount of pressure on national governments.
We all currently have the problem of difficulties with times, but we already knew this during the process of achieving streamlining.
There is a system for reviewing figures and behaviour and, with regard to the need raised by the honourable Members to be provided with the figures, many of them are already available in the spring report which we presented.
The figures which appear in it are not the absolute figures; in many cases, there are no aggregated Community figures, but there are figures for each of the Member States in relation to R+D and other types of education, which provide a degree of homogeneity enabling us to compare what is happening in each of them.
As you know, it is the Commission that informs Parliament and informs the President of Parliament.
I simply organise the debate during this sitting, but I take very good note of what you say and I will communicate it to the relevant bodies, both to the Commission and to the President of Parliament.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0088/2003).
The following questions are addressed to the Commission.
It is indeed correct that Member States may exempt from VAT small-value commercial consignments from third countries, but these de minimis thresholds, which may be set at either EUR 10 or EUR 22, are not determined by the Commission but rather have been laid down in Article 22 of Council Directive 83/181/EEC.
Moreover, these relief thresholds are optional.
Member States may therefore choose to apply VAT on the importation of goods which have been purchased by mail order.
Some Member States, such as Belgium, do so.
This problem was brought to my attention by a constituent in the city of Leeds who has a small company selling DVDs - the kind of materials you mentioned - and employs 31 people.
This system seeks to encourage the economic development of the countries benefiting from these preferences by enabling them to increase their exports to the Community and by targeting these tariff preferences at the countries that need them most.
This graduation is determined by objective and neutral criteria, which are included in our legislation and are directly linked to the export specialisation in the countries concerned.
Nevertheless, we feel that, overall, fears about the impact of this graduation are exaggerated, even if we are prepared to show a little flexibility in this case.
In the case of Colombia, which is the subject of the first part of your question, most of the exports concerned are cut flowers and the exports mainly go to the American market.
In the case of Costa Rica, where it is both plants and cut flowers that are affected, we do not share the concerns that have been expressed in various quarters either.
Costa Rica is a country that is developing relatively well.
Its overall economic situation has improved and in terms of specialisation, which defines as it were the competitiveness of a sector in the country compared with this same sector in other countries, it is clear that Costa Rica remains competitive.
Turning now to your question about the impact of the graduation mechanism on countries that benefit from the specific system of preferences fighting against the cultivation of drugs, it is true that when it was first set up the graduation mechanism did not apply to the 'Drugs' GSP.
The situation was changed in 2001 with a Council regulation applying the new scheme of preferences up to 2005 and bringing the 'Drugs' GSP into line as it were with the standard scheme.
Finally, let us take a look at the results of applying the graduation mechanism in the past.
Colombia and Costa Rica therefore meet the objective conditions in our legislation for having the graduation mechanism applied and we do not agree with the analysis according to which this would be a considerable blow to their economies.
It means that the exports of the country concerned have reached a level that is self-sustaining without the support of the preferences system and that the objectives of economic competitiveness and maturity that we wanted to foster have been reached.
That being said, and to respond to the concerns that have been expressed both by several Members of Parliament and by some of our Member States, as well as by some traders and, obviously, by the countries in question, the Commission has agreed to show a degree of flexibility.
The graduation mechanism, which was supposed to enter into force at the end of 2002 as provided for in the regulation, has not yet entered into force and the countries have therefore been able to continue to benefit from the GSP.
The final date is still under discussion and should be decided on shortly by the Council of Ministers.
Nevertheless, as political as it may be, its objective is to apply the treaties, rules and legislation that the European Union has adopted for itself.
The scheme expires at the end of 2004 and we will decide next year between two options which currently seem to be possibilities: either to modify the scheme as from 1 January 2005 or to extend it for a certain period of time.
Question No 34 by Myrsini Zorba (H-0214/03): Subject: ECHO in Iraq In 2002, ECHO provided aid to Iraq worth ?15 million.
This office has recently expanded and now has seven expatriate technical assistants and 10 local staff positions.
It covers Iraq and the rest of the Middle East.
The Technical Assistant's role is to assess the situation on the ground, analyse the needs and make recommendations to ECHO.
The main aim of these visits was to prepare for the consequences of what was then a potential crisis.
ECHO will restart needs assessment and monitoring missions as soon as security conditions allow.
ECHO will then reassess the need to further strengthen its presence on the ground.
For the time being, however, ECHO sees its presence as adequate.
As for the viability of a permanent structure in Iraq and in the region, I can already say that, as was done with Afghanistan, ECHO intends to open an office in Baghdad as soon as the security situation improves.
This office will be answerable to the regional office in Amman.
First of all, ECHO has introduced the logical framework approach and promoted the use of standardised performance indicators, to better measure the results and evaluate the impact of its activities wherever possible.
This will also stimulate an improvement of the project proposals we get from our implementing partners and we can already see clearly this effect.
ECHO has in parallel increased the supervision and the technical coordination of all the financed activities, notably at field level, by increasing the technical assistance capacity and creating regional support offices, as I just explained regarding the situation in Amman, and also working towards a more standardised basic approach in each sector of intervention, especially in the area of health support.
If we look at East Timor, Kosovo and even Afghanistan, this gradual handing over has been better than in the case of previous conflicts.
In parallel with the introduction of these key elements for improving performance, every year ECHO now presents an evaluation plan by the start of the new budgetary year.
Of particular relevance are the recent evaluations of the UNHCR and the World Food Programme, major international partners which also play a major role in the present crisis in Iraq.
Lastly, it should be mentioned that ECHO has also undertaken the implementation of the Commission reform programme.
Coming to the last part of the question, as regards the existence of an agreement with the United Nations for tackling 'the day after' in Iraq, I recall what the European Council stated on 21 March, that the UN should play a central role during and after the current crisis.
Thank you very much, Mr Nielson.
They deal with these reports in accordance with established procedures and pass them on as appropriate to police, Internet service providers and other hotlines.
The Commission considers this to be the most cost-effective approach.
This task will therefore continue for awareness notes under the new European Awareness Network which will be set up in the second phase of the Safer Internet Action Plan 2003-2004 where the honourable Member acted as rapporteur.
The Safer Internet Action Plan currently funds hotlines in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Spain, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, the United Kingdom and Iceland, as well as the European Association of Hotlines.
Expenditure from the Community budget in the period 1999 to 2002 totalled EUR 3.9 million.
The average annual contribution per hotline is EUR 76 500.
For instance, in Spain, the national hotline has a hyperlink on the homepage of Terra, the main Spanish portal.
The Commission does not currently have figures on the visibility of hotlines in terms of recognition by the general public, but a question about hotline visibility will be included in a Europe-wide Eurobarometer survey planned for later this year.
Statistics show a steadily increasing number of reports to all hotlines.
Over a six-month period, hotlines funded under the Safer Internet Action Plan processed more than 35 000 reports, of which almost 19 000 were reports on child pornography.
The Commission considers this to be a significant number and that the hotlines give good value for money.
The Commission has been an active participant in further action to deal with it, including proposing a framework decision on child pornography.
Commissioner, thank you very much, that is very promising.
When the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs debated this Commission proposal on which I was a rapporteur, we found that none of us in the Committee were aware at all; and I wonder if the public listening to Question Time in the gallery are aware either.
So there is still a great deal to do.
I accept your offer and since we 626 MEPs are the contact between the EU and the public, would you like to write each of us a simple little letter making all of us in the Parliament aware of it?
You could just print these off in the eleven languages and every Member will become conscious of it and we could all help to publicise this European Union facility in our Member States!
Also related is whether action can be taken on sites that are fed in from other Internet service providers from outside the European Union.
The hotline links to Internet service providers, but of course we are also in contact with the European Association for instance, to ask them to circulate this information.
This communication set out the actions that would be undertaken to address the potential environmental and health impacts of endocrine disruption, in line with the Commission's obligation to protect the human health and the environment within the European Union.
In this context, the availability of agreed test strategies and methods to identify and assess endocrine-disrupting chemicals is a basic requirement for comprehensive legislative action.
The Commission participates in the OECD Endocrine Disrupters Testing and Assessment Task Force (EDTA) which was set up in 1998.
The task force has reached a consensus on the development of a conceptual framework.
This framework generates information on mechanistic data in vitro, in vivo, and/or on other adverse effects from endocrine and other mechanisms.
It is important to recognise that endocrine disruption is not a toxicological end point per se, as is cancer or allergy, but that it is a mechanism of action that may lead to adverse toxic effects.
Such chemicals will have to undergo authorisation under the REACH system foreseen in the White Paper on the Future Chemicals Policy.
Furthermore, adverse affects on the endocrine system of wildlife species have been causally linked to certain persistent biocumulative and toxic substances which will also be subject to authorisation.
The Commission is currently considering whether to include in the draft proposal for the REACH regulation a provision to the effect that substances characterised as persistent biocumulative and toxic, or very persistent and very biocumulative - and, on a case-by-case basis, those substances of equivalent level of concern, such as endocrine disrupters not already caught by the CMR criteria - should be subject to authorisation.
Mr President, Mr Lund, what we have here is an extremely complicated procedure.
At the same time, it is important for the EU to participate in an international context.
It is important for us to remain within the framework of the OECD's activities and to try to develop these methods.
On the contrary, we all feel a need to press on and ensure that we as quickly as possible obtain test methods and systems for working with these hormone-disturbing substances.
Question No 38 by Jan Dhaene (H-0197/03): Subject: Setting up a European civil defence corps There is an urgent need to set up a European civil defence corps.
We must be aware that, according to the Treaties, civil protection measures fall under the competence of the Member States.
Furthermore, many different sectors are involved in civil protection.
The ways in which they cooperate are organised differently in different Member States.
However, the idea of creating such a corps is certainly interesting and I shall follow with interest the discussions on this issue in the European Convention.
Once activated by a request from one of the participating countries, the centre can immediately call upon Member States' civil protection resources, as already pre-identified for all types of major emergencies.
If you wish, I can also mention when this response centre has been used and where we have intervened.
The Commission considers that the EU Response Centre, which builds on all available national capacities, represents an effective tool that responds to the concerns expressed by the honourable Member.
I was in Galicia ten days after the disaster.
Immediately after the accident on 13 November 2002, the Centre was first activated by the Spanish authorities and subsequently by the Portuguese and French authorities as well.
Altogether, eight requests for assistance were registered and their immediate treatment through the Response Centre made it possible to organise and channel the offers made by all the other European countries.
Thus, following the accident, an impressive range and quantity of resources - including 15 oil-combating vessels, more than 20 kilometres of booms and several specialised surveillance aircraft - were put at the disposal of the national competent authorities affected.
Of course the Response Centre will be used in the same way and we will offer assistance from all Member States.
All the new Member States know about our Response Centre and we offer the support of all Member States in cases like this.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your extensive and very well-informed reply.
Four Members have requested the floor, but according to the Rules of Procedure, only two supplementary questions can be put.
There cannot be more than two questions.
We can say that it is very well known in all Member States, as well as the candidate countries, and, as I said, we work regularly with them in order to improve our preparedness and also to do more on the prevention side.
If Parliament and Member States so wish, I am willing to take it further, but this is an excellent opportunity for us to inform Parliament of what we have been doing, how we can intervene and how we can use our mechanism for civil protection.
Commissioner, since the Erika accident on 19 December 1999, several initiatives have been taken by the European Parliament and the other European institutions to increase maritime safety.
You have said that there is a European Union response centre, and I would like to know whether in it you have established emergency plans, above all for sensitive coastal areas, such as those of Galicia and Brittany, where year after year there are successive oil tanker accidents which cause damage to the environment.
Mr Ortuondo Larrea, you are absolutely right.
As you know, after the Prestige accident we followed up to ensure that a time plan was enforced and that we could move more quickly than we previously planned.
This is the work of civil protection authorities in each and every Member State.
One of the ideas that came out of my discussion with the Minister was to organise a small meeting bringing together some of the key experts - Spanish Government experts, academics and NGOs - in order to address some of these outstanding issues.
We have such different views on this.
I would ask you to repeat the first part of the question which was supplementary, if that is convenient.
Mr President, Commissioner, the first part of my question is crucial; it is absolutely fundamental.
The Commission's attitude to this financing is decisive for Spain's national hydrological plan to be taken forward or not.
That is the general guideline for the use of structural funds and other funds.
But we will bring them together and, I hope, we will be able to clarify how they have come to these positions, how they have been counting, how they have been calculating and what kind of information they bring.
We will begin the final part of Question Time.
Between 1997 and 2002, the candidate countries received an allocation of more than EUR 300 million from the PHARE programme for external border management.
Romania and Bulgaria continue to benefit from PHARE assistance and will see their national budget under the programme increase between 2004 and 2006.
For its part, Turkey will also receive more European funds for the same objective.
As you know, Article 35 of the draft treaty of accession provides for the creation of a temporary financial instrument comprising EUR 858 million for seven new Member States.
All of this is necessary to guarantee compliance with Schengen standards for protecting the future external borders and thus to ensure an appropriate level of security within the European Union.
The natural development of these centres for border control and the joint operations should raise the question of the formal creation of a border police.
But the Council has not set a date.
Unfortunately, we do not yet have a response from the Council.
That is precisely why accession to Schengen will take place in stages and in accordance with a method based on assessing each country's actual ability to guarantee the security of the European Union's external borders after enlargement.
Such an approach has been not only a balanced but also a realistic approach.
Question No 41 by Sarah Ludford (H-0141/03): Subject: Crime: EU-wide measures to prevent mobile phone theft The number of mobile phones stolen in the EU, often by international gangs, is probably in the millions every year, and a recent Eurobarometer survey showed that one-fifth to one-third of people in most Member States fear being the victim of such a theft.
I would say to the honourable Member that the Commission has been in contact with the United Kingdom authorities on this subject since July 2002.
Since then, the Commission has also drawn the attention of the European Crime Prevention Network to the possible usefulness of EU-wide measures to prevent mobile phone theft.
Nevertheless, the Commission does not foresee tabling a proposal on this subject under Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union, as it has not been identified, for now, as being one of the priority areas for approximation of substantive criminal law.
I thank the Commissioner for his reply but have to say, nonetheless, that I find it a little disappointing.
I can confirm that some Member States are in favour of creating such a database, but others are reluctant and doubt the usefulness of such a database.
I would like to ask the Commissioner to expand on a genuine cross-border problem in the theft of mobile phones: their extensive use in a form of carousel fraud on the VAT authorities in different Member States.
The issue of using the IMEI numbers is clearly a first step, in that bulk transactions of mobile phones should only be authorised if the IMEI numbers are checked to make sure those phones have not already been subject to a previous fraudulent transaction.
I am very much aware of the fact that last year approximately 700 000 phones were stolen in the UK, 150 000 in France and 130 000 in Spain.
Therefore we will go on discussing a European network of crime prevention and what concrete operational activities should be developed to fight this kind of crime.
We can only decide by unanimity and the Member States are split on this issue.
Mr President, as has already been pointed out, in the debate we will have to have on cooperation at an operational level between Member States regarding the repatriation of illegal residents, joint charter flights are one of the measures for strengthening operational cooperation laid down in the repatriation action plan approved by the Council in November 2002, on the basis of a Commission communication.
Legally speaking, these joint charter flights currently mean two or more national removal operations carried out at the same time in one and the same aircraft.
These joint charter flights have nothing to do with collective expulsions, which are prohibited by the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Joint repatriation flights, with a certain number of people on board, are organised for logistical reasons, but the underlying expulsion decisions are always made individually.
It seems to me that this is a very serious problem, because since I asked this question five joint flights - as you call them - have departed from France.
They were carrying groups of people of the same nationality leaving under the same conditions, often handcuffed, sometimes gagged, so effectively that two immigrants even died of suffocation.
My question then is as follows: what is the difference between a joint flight and a group flight?
So my question is as follows: who determines the difference in meaning between a joint flight and a group flight?
These two countries assembled a certain number of people in one place who were to be deported and they left on the same flight.
On the other hand, if you have ten individual deportation orders and if you see these ten people together, there is no doubt that they form a group, but, whether they go on a joint flight or not, it is not a collective expulsion.
The crisis in 2001 was one which, with active assistance from the international community - including, I am proud to say, a very hands-on and determined approach by the European Union - managed to avoid slipping into a costly civil war.
It has instead resulted in steady progress in terms of democracy and in your commitment, and the commitment of your country, to developing good neighbourly relations, respecting the rule of law, boosting the economy through trade and cooperation and working through the Ohrid Framework Agreement over time.
We in this House strongly support the policy of the Union seeking to develop a European perspective for the Western Balkans.
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, like all the former Yugoslav states, already belongs to the European family.
This was explicitly recognised at the European Council in Feira in June 2002.
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, like the other countries of the Western Balkans, has a European perspective.
Indeed, at a moment when we are living through a sense of Europe having failed to find its voice in an adequate way on the Iraqi crisis and in the UN, we look to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as one of the successes of the embryonic and emerging common foreign and security policy in Europe. (Applause) You are now on the path to this European vision which we share.
The following paragraph is a translation) Mr President, distinguished Members of the European Parliament, it is with great appreciation and pleasure that I speak to you today.
The European Parliament embodies a vision of Europe that is shared today by millions of people, not only inside but also outside of the current European Union, including by the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia.
It is vision of a continent of diversity, where different traditions, cultures and languages meet on the basis of mutual respect and common interests.
It is the vision of an integrated space for people, of freedom of movement, of a common market and European policies to address common concerns. (The speaker continued in English) This vision of the European founding fathers has today become a reality for the citizens of the European Union, for millions of students studying at universities outside their country, for businessmen linked through trade and investment, and for politicians and civil servants who meet on a daily basis to develop joint responses to the challenges of our age.
Soon the European Union will embrace 10 new countries, with their citizens partaking in the European dream of common peace and prosperity.
I want to use this opportunity today to share with you my thoughts on what this vision of a united Europe means to the people of my country, the Republic of Macedonia.
The citizens of the Republic of Macedonia share the same values and have the same interests as the citizens of those other countries that will soon join the Union.
There is a strong commitment to do what is necessary to meet criteria for accession and to undertake the required efforts.
Two years ago some - in the European Union and in the Republic of Macedonia - might have had doubts about whether European accession would actually become a reality in our lifetime.
I want to express the appreciation of the citizens of my country to all those, in this Chamber and in other European and transatlantic institutions, who stood by the Republic of Macedonia in these difficult moments and supported our efforts to move from armed conflict to peaceful, political conflict resolution.
In this difficult period, Macedonia discovered that it had many friends - including in this Chamber, where parliamentarians from all political groups, have supported the cause of stabilising our state and reassuring our citizens.
The role of the special representatives has also been very important and much appreciated.
The Republic of Macedonia was, of course, the first country in the region to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union.
It is my conviction that the momentum created in the last two years, and which has allowed my country to move from armed conflict to renewed progress on the road to European integration must not be lost.
The Republic of Macedonia is taking part in the development of a common European security and defence policy.
I have stressed how much progress has been made recently - bringing hostilities to an end, strengthening the rule of law, implementing the Framework Agreement - and how important the role of the European Union was in this effort.
Let me now turn to the challenges of the present and of the near future.
Let me stress what efforts we - the elected representatives of Macedonia - will undertake to meet those challenges, as well as express concrete ideas about what contribution the European Union and its institutions can make to help us in these efforts.
Macedonian citizens are looking forward to the historic enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and then in 2007.
And we need to work on realising the vision of a Europe not just for states but also for citizens, enabling free movement of the citizens of the Western Balkans across the borders of the European Union.
There is today a clear consensus on the importance of strengthening the rule of law across the region.
This is, above all, the responsibility of our governments.
We need to strengthen our institutions, improve our legislation and work on our border management.
Recent months have seen substantial progress across the region.
Our states are not so weak that they cannot take on organised crime, and our citizens support our institutions when we do.
The Republic of Macedonia is in the final stage of preparations to organise a Regional Conference on Border Security and Management in Ohrid to take this agenda further.
The most important thing is our determination and the support of our citizens in meeting them.
As the point is shifting from post-conflict reconstruction to development, our citizens are increasingly focused on issues related to economic and social cohesion: high unemployment, decaying or absent infrastructure and the need to adapt skills to new economic realities.
There is an obvious link between success in implementing the Framework Agreement, the success of the first EU Military mission and a concrete prospect for economic development.
This makes the development of a vibrant private sector all the more important, not just for economic reasons, but also for social and security reasons.
In the next few years the European Commission will make a major effort to help the new candidate countries to catch up with the rest of the European Union.
This is why we support so strongly the idea of the Greek Presidency to make pre-accession assistance available also to the countries of the Western Balkans.
We are very much hoping that, at the Thessaloniki Summit, a European commitment to the Western Balkans might lead to the creation of a complement to CARDS, with instruments of structural policies offered for pre-accession, as has been discussed by some EU Member States.
We are aware that such assistance will impose many conditions on us, including the need to co-finance projects with our resources.
However, such conditionality will help us to strengthen our administrations and prepare for a future in Europe.
We do not want to be treated as a humanitarian case but want to take ownership of processes of development in genuine partnership with the European Union institutions.
The successful continuation of the reform process depends on a new generation of responsible citizens with international experience and knowledge.
Until the break-up of Yugoslavia our citizens travelled to all EU countries without restrictions and the Republic of Macedonia is not a country of transit.
I have been following very carefully the debates in your Parliament on the issue that has been imposed on us, related to the usage of the constitutional name, the Republic of Macedonia.
It will take much more effort and more time until the Macedonian State will be able to become a full member of the Union, although I am looking forward to the day when Macedonian Members will sit in this Chamber. (Applause) In this I am hoping also for your support.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted first of all to congratulate my colleague, Carmen Cerdeira, on the excellent work that she has done on this very important issue.
Indeed this text constitutes the first directive on legal immigration since competence for this area moved to European level.
I should like to say straight away, however, that I regret two things: firstly, that we have had to wait so long; secondly, that the end result is such a cautious position, the unfortunate consequence of a policy that is based exclusively on controlling migratory flows, despite the objectives set in Tampere.
After more than three years of fierce negotiations, after two markedly different proposals, despite a European Parliament opinion expressing support for the first proposal and despite the excellent work done by our rapporteur, the text that we have today contains minimal provisions on family reunification and, moreover, the Council will take absolutely no account at all of the European Parliament's opinion, which will nevertheless - at least, I hope so - confirm our previous position.
Tampere had, it is true, given us a glimpse of something entirely different, but at this stage it is unfortunately a certainty that the process that was begun in 1999 is turning out contrary to expectations.
That is why we will be voting against - and we are against - the provision that allows the Member States, in certain cases, to refuse entry to a child aged over 12 years.
We also reject the proposal that authorises a waiting period of three years and we are unfortunately obliged to note that this episode constitutes yet more proof of the lack of political will on the part of the Member States to share competence for immigration.
In short, with the various steps backward in the second directive and the various ? (The President invited the speaker to conclude) ...
Similarly, one particularly positive point of the directive is that the rights of the members of the reunited family are defined, rights relating to education and employment, in order both to ensure that they are smoothly integrated into the society of the Member State and to safeguard their employment rights, so that they do not turn into cheap labour on the job market.
I am also sure, however, that this is not the last time that we will discuss family reunification.
I do in fact think that it is a fundamental right, that it is key to the success of our integration policy and that, as the Member States develop their own integration policies, family reunification will become an increasingly important lever to help to integrate migrant workers successfully into the host European societies.
I should like to add, however, that this political agreement must not be any weaker than what is already on the table.
That is why, for example, although I agreed in the past not to include subsidiary protection and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection in this proposal - at the request, incidentally, of the European Parliament amongst others - I do not think that it is acceptable to exclude refugees from this directive.
You see, we have to recognise that refugees have to have a right to family reunification, that this right needs to be included somewhere in a legal standard and that this instrument is the appropriate place to enshrine such a right to family reunification.
I think that it sends out a strong political message: a European Union policy on immigration cannot only be a repressive policy, it also has to be a policy of legal immigration.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
With these reports, we are calling once again today for greater European Parliament involvement in the Europol budget procedure and for Europol to be funded through the Community budget.
We are calling for European Parliament involvement in the appointment and dismissal of Europol's Director and Deputy Directors, and for two European Parliament elected representatives to take part in the Management Board meetings.
The European Commission has already expressed itself on the issue of democratic control, proposing to establish a joint committee, consisting of members of both the Member States' and European Parliament committees responsible for police matters.
The issue of democratic control of Europol has also been recently debated in the Convention Working Group 'Freedom, security and justice'.
The same Convention Working Group has drafted a final report which states: 'Europol activities will need in the future to be subject to democratic accountability to the European Parliament and to the Council, as well as to judicial control by the ECJ in accordance with the normal Treaty rules'.
Notwithstanding all these repeated appeals and specific proposals, here we are today discussing a Protocol to the Europol Convention on which the European Parliament is being consulted.
In the face of all this, we in the committee - and, I hope, tomorrow, the House - noting that repeated requests and proposals for real, improved democratic control and powers on Europol have been ignored, can only condemn the fact that the proposed changes are mainly aesthetic and make a mockery of the European Parliament and the European citizens which elected it.
The Council has not followed Parliament's repeated requests for increased powers over the Europol budget and in the appointment and dismissal procedures or for European Parliament representatives' participation in the Management Board.
Under these conditions, the European Parliament will keep its current role with regard to Europol: discussing without anybody listening and making reports without anybody implementing.
Inevitably, one day, the Council will have to realise that increased democratic control and powers with regard to Europol are the only guarantee for its correct functioning and administration in everybody's interest.
Our rejection of the initiatives and the resolution we have tabled confirm this: as I said, it was a difficult decision; we discussed the matter at least four times in committee, but, in the end, all the political groups agreed on this document.
It is the case that, in the past, we in the European Parliament made matters easy for ourselves by rejecting every proposal for amending the Europol Convention.
There were a number of extensions of Europol's competences that we in the European Parliament were unwilling to agree to without increased powers of control.
Even the proposed facility whereby national authorities should in future be able to communicate directly with Europol would be a real step forward.
Whilst, when I consider the amendments tabled by members of the Convention, I do find a few asking for the Council to reach unanimous decisions in this area, I can find not one single amendment intended to curtail the role envisaged for the European Parliament.
Fourthly, the legislative procedure must make it possible for Europol to conduct its own investigations, in collaboration with the appropriate officials in the Member States.
Such a transfer of competences could, in the first instance, also be subject to unanimity, although Parliament's rights must under no circumstances be curtailed.
The seventh point is that Europol must be given access to the various computer systems - among which I will mention only the Schengen Information System, the Customs Information System, and Eurodac - which are to be united in one single uniform computer system with different entitlements to access it.
We now urge the Council not to go on blocking the use of EU Budget resources to fund Europol in its counter-terrorist activities until such time as the Intergovernmental Conference has adopted such a constitutional treaty.
Mr Turco refers in his report to Council Regulation No 1049/2001.
I should like to call this House's attention to the fact that this regulation addresses the question of public access to documents.
It is not, however, a regulation that sets the levels of classification of Council or Commission documents.
With regard to the rules on public access to documents held by Europol, Members are certainly aware that the Danish initiative provides that Europol's Management Board should adopt rules on access to Europol documents taking into consideration the principles and limits laid down in Regulation No 1049/2001.
But it must be remembered that the questions raised by these initiatives are at the same time being examined by the Convention on the Future of Europe.
Rejection of these initiatives would probably be a bad sign for change in the right direction.
I believe Parliament agrees with the Commission that the Europol Convention needs to be replaced with an instrument that is more easily adapted and allows for adequate legal and democratic control at a European level.
The Europol Convention should be replaced right now, today, through a Council decision, just as Eurojust was set up on the basis of a Council decision.
Europol's budget should be financed from the Community budget, and the information given to the European Parliament should likewise be looked at from a different viewpoint.
In fact, in the communication that the Commission presented to Parliament on the democratic control of Europol, we recommended that a joint supervisory body should be set up composed of representatives of the European Parliament and of the national parliaments.
Lastly, as regards the field of data protection, the rules that exist in the current Europol Convention must be extended.
These objectives are only very partially achieved by the Member States' initiatives.
We only have to recall that the Convention on the Protection of the European Communities' Financial Interests was ratified by all the European Union Member States only last month, yet it dates back to 1995.
We should not forget, however, that the outcome of the Convention on the Future of Europe, that is, the Constitutional Treaty, will also be subject to a process of ratification by the parliaments of all the Member States, all twenty-five Member States, and will therefore be a similarly slow and cumbersome process.
The immediate triggering of the ratification process for these amendments to the Europol Convention does not conflict with the Constitutional Treaty, since the rules of the Constitutional Treaty will prevail over the rules that are now the subject of this initiative by the Member States.
Finally, I should like to express my support for Parliament's position when, in the recommendation to the Council, it refers to Article 22 presented by the Convention Praesidium.
I should like to point out that the objective with which the Commission has approached the debate on the Convention is to make Europol an agency of the European Union with a normal statute within a single institutional framework.
This means Community financing, a legal basis that can be changed more easily, a European Union law and the use of the normal legislative procedure, that is, the qualified majority and codecision rule.
All these elements are welcome; they are in line with the Commission communication of December 2002 on the institutional architecture of the European Union and I believe they fit in with the objectives of more effective police cooperation in the European area.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has been consistent in giving its support to various initiatives aimed at broadening Europol's mandate.
We want to help Europol become an effective instrument in the fight against organised crime and to take on a primary role in cooperation between the Member States' authorities on investigations into cross-border criminal activities.
This rejection must be used as an opportunity to restate our position.
First, that Europol cannot continue to be maintained within the framework of simple intergovernmental cooperation.
Secondly, the role of the Court of Justice must be aligned with the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam, so that there can be effective judicial control.
Thirdly, Europol clearly needs to be subject to an adequate level of democratic control, putting an end to the current situation in which the European Parliament has been playing a purely marginal role.
We are all in agreement.
My colleagues can use my speaking time if they really want to.
Mr President, I want to speak on the linked issues of data protection and parliamentary accountability.
The joint supervisory authority responsible for data protection is composed of a Member from each Member State.
It is supposed to ensure that Europol respects the Convention's provisions on data protection.
The Convention itself, in several Council acts, lays down rules on the use of data and the communication of that data to third states and bodies.
But to judge from the evidence given by the UK Member of the joint supervisory body to the House of Lords European Select Committee, we have reason to ask if we can have total confidence in the thoroughness with which the joint supervisory authority is doing its job.
I therefore fully support the recommendation in the reports we are debating that this authority should report to both the Council and Parliament and should be available for questioning before the relevant committee, which would be the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
He discussed the difficulty of evaluating the adequacy of data protection in the United States - because they have no federal law or data protection authority, but rely largely on case-law, judicial supervision and audit.
But then, abdicating any responsibility for being vigilant and active, he concluded: 'I think we ought to take the view, particularly as between Western European countries and the United States, that here is a set of countries which take a pride in abiding by the rule of law and will honour their agreements.
I do not believe it is responsible for him to abdicate responsibility like this, and he is the UK Member on the joint supervisory body.
I therefore want to thank both rapporteurs for having again put this message in unambiguous terms.
A number of reports by Parliament have, over and over again, demanded real Parliamentary control of Europol, but to date nothing has happened.
In view of what is going on in the background at the European Convention's discussions, the various initiatives by individual governments seem positively Kafkaesque, for they go beyond the proposals before the Convention on the reform of internal affairs and judicial matters.
Being a member of the Convention, I therefore support the idea of this House again putting its main demand before the Council and the governments and confronting them with it.
As a member of the Convention, I can only ask you to continue to observe carefully the negotiations in progress in the Convention on this issue, for, in my view - if I may give an example - the basic thrust of the proposals on Europol from the Convention's Praesidium is that it should be, to a large degree, left to its own devices when it comes to laying down precisely what its role is.
Mr President, the atmosphere is a lot more pleasant this evening.
Parliament is as united now in rejecting the Council initiatives with regard to Europol as it was divided this afternoon in the debate on the UN Conventions on drugs.
We are not joining in the game, therefore; we are not dutifully delivering our opinion.
That does not mean, of course, that there is not sometimes good reason to keep something confidential, to not put it in the public domain, but objective criteria must be applied, and those are worded excellently in Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
Finally, I wish to try to win you over to the amendments that my group has re-tabled.
This is important, because in some countries certain data may and other data may not be used as evidence in criminal cases.
My amendment to Recommendation No 5 argues in favour of clarity as regards the origin of evidence, due to the importance of this clarity for legal cases.
Mr President, I also wish to join my colleagues in thanking the rapporteurs for their initiative and tact in dealing with this situation.
There is a necessity for their data-protection systems to be put in place and to be clear for all to see in operation and to understand.
However, where I would differ from my colleagues is in trying to use strong-arm tactics against the Member State governments by telling them what they can and cannot do.
Whilst we all await with great uncertainty and excitement the outcome of the Convention, it plays no role whatsoever in forming the basis of our work today.
We must, however, seek to adapt Europol's position to its present tasks, and to give it the best working conditions possible.
So it is the debates currently in progress that once again call on us to emphatically demand what the two rapporteurs have demanded in their joint report - the necessity of securing for the future Europol's existence and that of the European Union's security policy.
What other speakers have already mentioned must of course be added to this - namely, more intensive coordination between the computer data systems that we have, in order to conduct investigations into organised crime and criminality in an even more efficient manner.
We have no more need of systems that work in parallel or that hinder each other; what we need instead is one system, to be used in the same way by all, combined with a single system of data protection.
Here is a wealth of options, of which we may well be aware, but of which we must now make use if they are to be implemented with the help of the Convention documents and with full backing and support from all parties in the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Police Office having functioned for ten years as an intergovernmental institution of control, European policing is now to be put on a Community-wide basis.
Some may object that Europol is thereby being transferred from the third pillar to the first and thus being removed still further from the European nation states' control.
In any case, it is the police who, by upholding public order, enforce all the constraints of employment and citizenship.
More and more citizens will find themselves targeted by the Persecution Authority, for communitisation will enable the Euro-police to be deployed more flexibly, and Europol's competences will be capable of being extended by a simple Council resolution.
In any case, communitisation makes the police force even more important.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the first two reports that we debated will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The next item is the report (A5-0104/2003) by Mr Kirkhope, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative by the Federal Republic of Germany with a view to adopting a Council Directive (14848/2002 - C5-0011/2003 - 2003/0801(CNS)) on assistance in cases of transit for the purposes of removal by air.
Mr President, although what I have to say is not quite as exciting as what we have just discussed - at first sight, that is - I must say as a former UK immigration minister, that one of the most difficult processes in the immigration system arises when you have to remove a person who has gone through all the legal processes and no longer has a legal right to remain, or has not provided a legal reason to remain in a Member State and has to be returned to the place from whence they came.
Because of a lack of coordination or cooperation, it has often meant much more suffering for the people concerned; it has also meant that this operation has not always been carried out in a successful manner.
Officials have experienced frustration and difficulty over this not only in Britain, but indeed in most of the EU Member States.
This does not in any way affect the individual Member States' procedures, nor is it a measure which tries to be ambitious and look again at the whole issue of asylum procedures as such, or indeed asylum criteria.
It is purely a simple and very practical measure which will bring about the result which has to occur from time to time once the proper legal processes have been exhausted.
In conclusion, I am proud to be the rapporteur of this report because it is a clear demonstration that regardless of our political views on Europe and its future role, there are many areas like this where we can work together in a way which makes a practical difference to many people - both those who are dependent on our care and those who have to implement our rules and regulations.
Mr President, concerning the German initiative, the Commission stated in its communication, of 14 October 2002, on a common written policy on illegal residents, that there is a clear need for improvement of operational cooperation among Member States.
The Return Action Programme of the Council adopted on 28 November 2002, which is based on our communication, also calls for a comprehensive Community return policy, which should be gradually developed, starting with some practical steps for operational cooperation as the matter in hand.
In that framework, reference was also made to the German initiative for a Council directive on assistance in cases of transit for the purpose of return by air, which I support, as you do.
But often it is necessary to use airports of other Member States, due to a lack of direct connections to the country of return.
In such cases it is important that we establish a clear legal framework for the transit procedures, especially as far as the use and competences of escorts in transit is concerned.
Nevertheless a fully-fledged common return policy must additionally strive for medium-term legislative measures which will not only smoothen cooperation among Member States, such as the binding mutual recognition of return decisions, but will also set certain common minimum standards on expulsion, detention and removal, to guarantee that all Member States - not only the 15 but all 25 - abide by and respect human and fundamental rights standards.
Consequently the Commission envisages presenting a proposal for a Council directive on minimum standards for return procedures and mutual recognition of return decisions by the end of this year.
We will of course be voting against this report which, in the guise of technical neutrality, seeks to organise deportations of so-called illegal immigrants.
The fact that the only elected European Union institution is justifying these expulsions and helping to organise them shows that it is worth no more from a human or social point of view than the national institutions, that is not very much.
I therefore protest against these expulsions and call for all those without papers to be given a proper legal status and the same civil and political rights as all workers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative that has been proposed seeks to set out the measures that may be taken by the authorities to provide assistance for the purposes of the removal, with or without escorts, of third-country nationals.
This proposal is one of numerous initiatives seeking to combat unorthodox immigration.
If the European Union has to have a common immigration and asylum policy and has to provide itself with the means to manage migratory flows, this policy should respect the human rights and fundamental freedoms that are universally recognised and acknowledged by the Member States.
Everyone remembers Semira Adamou, who suffocated in a plane in Belgium while being deported.
Recently, on 3 March, France and Germany expelled a group of 54 Senegalese and Ivorians who had not been admitted to these countries, had had their asylum applications dismissed and had been kept in a waiting zone.
In rejecting a Community policy so as to meet the national demands of the Member States, in putting the rights of migrants and their families at risk, thus handing them over to the violence of deportation, and in refusing to recognise the wealth that these citizens, whether legal or not, bring to the project of European integration, this proposal is based on a philosophy that runs counter to our conviction that Europe should be a place of openness and solidarity, and that is why the Group of the Greens rejects it.
We call on the Council to establish a genuine Community asylum and immigration policy that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms.
After the minimalist proposal for a directive on family reunification that we examined just now in this House, we can only imagine the kind of discrimination that the European Union intends to reserve for the most marginalised and weak in the future.
Whatever their nationality or their administrative situation, these people should be treated with the dignity that all human beings deserve.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The report presented for debate is intended to be the European Parliament's response to the Commission's Communication of 2 July 2002 on an information and communication strategy for the European Union.
My hope is that, in the future, following the recognition of the legal personality of the European Union, this citizens' right will combine with the European Union's right to express itself, in what we could call the European Union's right to an image, the European Union's right to explain what it is and what it does, and the combination of these two rights provides a firm legal basis on which to create a genuine information and communication policy.
The report opts decisively for the consolidation of interinstitutionality in the three phases of the process, that is to say, in the production of messages within the Interinstitutional Information Group, in application, using for this purpose the representations of the Commission and the offices of the European Parliament, as well national, regional and local authorities and interinstitutionality, and also in the assessment both within the Interinstitutional Information Group and by means of an annual debate on the information and communication policy.
With regard to the content, I will focus on just two points.
On the one hand, the content should indicate the European Union's influence on the daily actions of the citizens, rejecting the European Union's frequent image as an arena for confrontation, with opposing interests on the part of the different Member States.
With regard to the current priorities, those already included in the Prince programme are taken up, that is to say, enlargement, the future of Europe, the area of freedom, security and justice, the establishment of the euro and the role of the European Union in the world.
And attention is drawn to the imminence of the 2004 elections, which are of symbolic significance because this will be the first time that 25 countries will elect their direct representatives to this House.
The analysis of the report raises certain critical questions.
The time has not yet come to create a legal basis for the drawing up of the programmes, but the Convention and the future Intergovernmental Conference provide the opportunity to support the idea that the future Constitution should include - within the democratic life of the European Union - a reference to the citizens' right to information, so that they may be genuine citizens.
The truth is, however, that the European Union's image is either promoted or harmed directly as a result of the actions resulting from the various sectoral policies.
Coordination of the various sectoral policies, orienting sectoral policies towards a common objective - the development of the European Union - should be subject not to decision, of course, but at least to consideration, within the interinstitutional information body.
The citizens perceive Europe by means of their national authorities, for whom a success is something they have won from the rest of the Europeans and for whom harm is anything that they perceive as negative.
Partnership and integration amongst the Member States and the regional and local authorities is fundamental for this purpose.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following our communication of 2 July on an information and communication strategy for the European Union, the Commission is very pleased to note Parliament's support for this initiative, which is expressed in the report by Mr Bayona, whom I should like to congratulate.
We clearly cannot define and implement an information and communication strategy for the European Union without the support and active participation of the Council, but also and in particular the Member States.
For the Commission, the main objective of a proactive information and communication strategy has to be to improve the perception that the public has of the European Union: in essence, it should improve the public's awareness of the European dimension of their citizenship.
The visible expression of this citizenship should be active participation in the next European elections.
There is no doubt that this decisive milestone in the democratic life of the Union should be our shared objective.
That is why we have agreed on four major information themes for 2003 to 2004 after the big campaign on the euro: enlargement, the future of the Union, the area of freedom, security and justice and the role of Europe in the world.
Alongside other issues, in particular the social and economic agenda, these themes, especially enlargement and the future of the Union, are a priority concern today, particularly given that they are running on parallel timetables.
The Commission will scrupulously respect the priorities adopted by the European Parliament at the vote on the budget and has no intention of modifying the balance - in terms of either the detail or the broader picture - of the Prince programme as adopted by the budgetary authority.
Nevertheless, allow me to point out - and I do so entirely objectively - as I have done several times previously, that the doubling of the appropriations allocated to the Prince programme that was approved by this House for the 2003 Budget, is obviously going to raise some serious practical problems when it comes to implementation.
The Commission would have appreciated being given advance warning of this state of affairs at a prior meeting with the competent authorities in Parliament, as befits the spirit of interinstitutional cooperation that should prevail in the running of the Prince programme.
As far as the practicalities of implementation are concerned, in response to the rapporteur's invitation requesting, with a view to the 2004 elections, an information campaign making particular use of television - it being understood that this campaign should be promoted and coordinated by the Commission - we have decided to launch a huge call for audiovisual proposals, which will cover both the theme of enlargement and that of the future of Europe.
This integrated approach, which befits the complementary nature of these two subjects, will have a significant and renewed leverage effect for the audiovisual sector in Europe.
As you know, the role of the European Union is viewed much more favourably by third countries than from within the Member States themselves.
At our last meeting of the interinstitutional group, we thought it was essential to start working this year on information actions, targeted initially at opinion formers and the appropriate intermediary information providers, on the role of the Union in the world.
As the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy rightly stresses, rapid progress needs to be made on this dimension of our information and communication strategy.
And finally, the common foreign and security policy and its initial work on defence policy.
Only a structured partnership with the competent national authorities will enable us to exploit this strategy to its full potential, a strategy which is now co-owned by the institutions, and to ensure that it has maximum impact at regional and even at local level, in the general interests of the Union and for the benefit of all of its people.
The information given to the citizens of the European Union should therefore be objective and free from the influence of political or other authorities.
Citizens must be told about European stands and policies, especially as regards important issues such as foreign affairs and issues relating to the security and defence of the European Union.
Special attention must be paid to issues such as political legitimacy, democratic control and transparency in decision making.
Top priority issues, such as enlargement, the links between European policies and daily life and the problems of European citizens, especially following the accession of new countries to the European Union, which is expected to bring about considerable changes in European agricultural, budgetary and financial policy, need to be the subject of full, substantiated information.
There is a serious problem in the regions, where information is either limited or totally lacking.
In these areas, closer and more fundamental cooperation is needed with local agencies in each Member State, so that information is accessible to everyone.
More immediate and more objective information could be achieved with live coverage of important events, such as decision making in plenary sittings and at committee meetings, for example in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on television channels or, in order to avoid high costs, on the Internet.
When we talk about Europe, it reminds me a bit of school, where we always said 'I have passed' or 'they have failed me'.
When they say, 'it is Europe's fault', the citizens do not even know which institution they are referring to, because in reality they do not know them, and they cannot distinguish between them.
We know that they are completely different things, but the public in general does not know, and we must acknowledge that these coincidences or similarities are very unfortunate.
Furthermore, if we bear in mind that the essential thing is to educate and inform young people, who will be the real protagonists of the European Union within a few years and who will be its future, and that it is they who sporting information can mostly reach, we would truly be completing a circle which would be of the greatest interest and benefit in terms of the image of all the institutions of the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to protest at the absurd nocturnal and almost clandestine hour allocated to a debate which should be one of the most important debates of the year.
The priority tasks for the Commission, for the European media and for opinion-formers in general - including us in this Parliament - must be empowering the European political area, the development of a European image and identity, strengthening - as the Commissioner has said - a core of common values, the debate on the future of Europe and the European approach in all types of information.
Mr President, the approval of this report and the fact that Commissioner Vitorino has been charged with implementing these policies, are, in my view, significant reasons for us to be hopeful.
It is a comprehensive report, and I know from experience that the work involved in such a report is fairly demanding.
The report takes us a good step closer to our goal of a comprehensive coordinated and decentralised information and communication policy, or in Commissioner Vitorino's words in the 'Friends of Europe' debate: 'the fight against apathy and ignorance regarding the EU'.
I would also express my regret at the form of debate that we are having here in Parliament, since it excludes you from being able to answer questions here and now.
Allow me finally to ask the Presidency of Parliament: would it not be an idea, Mr President, for us to hold a debate in plenary on Parliament's role in the information strategy up until the 2004 elections?
It is clearly evident from this, and also from many other examples, that the EU's existing information and communication policy is not working.
Such measures would be a step in the right direction, so that negative preconceptions about the EU could be eroded and public support for the Community ideal would be restored.
Tomorrow, we will be deciding on the enlargement of the European Union by the addition of ten new Member States.
Despite this success for the European Union, the Eurobarometer published in March 2002 clearly shows that fewer than one-third of the members of the public questioned regarded themselves as well informed about the European Union.
Voter turnout has fallen from 63% in 1979 to 49% in 1999.
I believe one of our main problems to be the fact that we speak of the European Union as a distant structure.
The European Union is made up of all of us!
The political will to reduce the distance between Europe's citizens and its institutions is absent - not from the European institutions, but from the Member States.
The best public information campaign is of no use if the public are not aware that they, through their governments, have a part in every decision.
Euronews is a good objective.
Another point which I believe to be extremely important, and which I believe must also be revised, and in relation to which this document introduces a very clear request, is the issue of languages.
I therefore support an improvement in terms of the issue of interpreting.
And in view of the new technologies and the current capacity for communication, the citizens will not feel connected with these institutions unless they can participate in dialogue.
I would therefore call for equality between all citizens to be respected and for the reform of communication to be dealt with from a more modern point of view.
It is a fairly simple idea, but it one which would, in my view, generate a lot of interest amongst the citizens of Europe.
Really, it is the people who are not here who need to understand the importance of explaining what the European Union does.
If we cannot do that, we must not be too surprised if the citizens of Europe are rather apathetic about it.
The solution to that problem is explaining what we do, and that is information policy.
I speak, not just as a Member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which is interested in information, but also as a Member of the Committee on Petitions.
The second point I want to make concerns Euronews.
They learn about things through television, and we have to see that Euronews manages to succeed.
The Danish Parliament said that it likes to provide information about Europe from the national parliament rather than from the European Parliament.
If we can encourage the national parliaments and national authorities to give more information, then we have some hope.
I would just like very much to thank the Members of the House for the views they have expressed and very briefly to address two or three questions that were raised.
As far as television is concerned, according to our polls 64% of European citizens recognise that whatever they know about the European Union comes from television.
Finally, as Mr Karas said, the strategy cannot be developed just by the central institutions of the European Union.
The challenge ahead of us is to build a partnership with the Member States, with regional and local authorities, to promote information about the Union.
But at the end of the day I hope that Member States will understand that if they carry on with such a strategy, sooner or later, when they have to ask for the consent of citizens for the European project, they will be the first victims to fall to the ground.
I am optimistic because, for the first time, the Council has engaged in close interinstitutional cooperation with Parliament and the Commission to develop information and communication strategies on the most important subjects.
Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
