author. - (CS) Mr President, first of all I would like to apologise to the interpreters, as I have not prepared anything in writing and I therefore was not able to provide them with a written text of my contribution in advance.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ouzký, first I should like to thank you for referring to the Portuguese Presidency's programme on the environment, specifically on issues relating to drought and desertification.
I should like also to mention in greater detail the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, which is also an important feature of this session; that Conference, as you know, is being held now, from 3 to 14 September in Madrid.
On 23 July the Council approved the conclusions setting out the European Union's priorities - those that the EU must uphold at that Conference of the Parties, which is the eighth conference since the Convention was approved.
I would remind you in this context that, at its annual meeting held on 25 May this year, the ACP-EC Council of Ministers adopted a joint statement on combating drought and desertification.
I therefore hope that in Madrid, after more than 13 years since the UN Convention to Combat Desertification came into being, the international community will debate a reform of the Convention itself, in order to include measures that make the fight against this phenomenon more effective, especially the draft ten-year strategic plan that is being debated.
According to the United Nations, desertification now affects 100 to 200 million people directly.
The situation is worst in Central Asia, where three-quarters of the soil is infertile.
The Darfur crisis has been described as the first climate change conflict.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this eighth conference on desertification is an extremely important opportunity, in a proper forum such as the UN, but it also requires specific responses to a dramatic situation.
Global warming effects became more and more visible for Romania in Dobrogea, Southern field or Western sands.
More than 4 500 children die each day of diseases caused by lack of water.
In conclusion, I should like to recapitulate the proposals which I put forward in the report on natural disasters, in particular those adopted by the European Parliament: the establishment of a European observatory on drought and desertification in order to gather information and ensure a more effective response; that preventive measures be implemented in the area of drought risk management, including strategies to minimise the resulting impacts, and incorporated into river basin management strategies. (EL) Mr President, it is one of life's little ironies that this discussion should take place after the summer's tragic events in southern Europe.
Portugal, in its Presidency of the European Union, will naturally have an important role to play here too, since we shall be leading the European Union at the Bali Conference which, as you know, will be preparing the decisions that we shall need to take in that area post-Kyoto 2012.
It was mentioned in this House, and I also said it myself in my first speech, that it is very important for civil society to feel more involved in implementing the measures needed to combat desertification.
