I do not believe Mrs Fontaine needs lessons in parliamentary law to know what to do.
The problem is not one of interference of the European Parliament in the Italian Parliament; it is that yesterday and the day before, that is since the beginning of this part-session, we have heard statements repeated in this House that interfere with the Italian Parliament.
Article 3 lays down the obligation of the country that receives a letter rogatory asking for legal assistance to send the petitioning country the originals of the documents having evidential value or, failing that, a copy with a certificate of authenticity.
I would not like it to be said, wrongly, in this House, that the law being adopted implementing Article 3 of the European Convention on Legal Assistance, which has all too often been violated by magistrates in Italy, is actually a law favouring terrorism, because it is not.
I would like to welcome the dialogue that has existed between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament, which has been very helpful.
I believe that of the first amendments presented by the European Parliament at first reading, the other two institutions have accepted some important amendments.
For example, taking into account in product safety not only the producers' liability but also that of the distributors; clear information on the possible risks in the languages of the different States of the Union; faster exchange of information; greater cooperation between Member States to prevent dangerous products from reaching the market; and also, the withdrawal of products which are considered dangerous, even if they are already being marketed.
These amendments referred to something very important for us: the inclusion of the services in a proposal on which the Commission is working, the results of which it is committed to producing in 2003.
I believe this is a very important proposal for us, because safety of services should rank on the same level as the directive we are reviewing today.
There is also an agreement on comitology which in this case is not what Parliament wanted either, but there is a proposal of continued and regular information to the European Parliament and the Council.
We have the verbal undertaking of the European Commission that there will be very strict controls to ensure that this does not occur, but it would have been safer for it to be included in the proposal and for there to be no risk of exporting products which we Europeans consider dangerous to Third World countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the operation of the internal market is only guaranteed if, in an area without internal borders, appropriate and sensible measures are put in place and consumer safety is safeguarded.
Progress here has been relatively swift; the Commission proposal submitted 15 months ago has now gone through every stage, with all of the three parts which make up the triangle of forces involved now having made their own distinctive contributions.
It is important that we should be required to consider the safety of services and to examine proposals to this end in reasonably quick time.
Mr President, I would like to express my support and that of my Group for the report from the Conciliation Committee.
The report before us makes for a significant improvement on current legislation governing the safety of products.
Of the points agreed, I particularly welcome the fact that stronger action can now be taken at Community level under the rapid alert system where there is a serious risk to consumers, so that dangerous products can be taken off the market.
The fact that the Commission will be reporting regularly to Parliament is significant, as is the reference to the precautionary principle and the duty of the relevant authorities in Member States to interpret this in relation to all products.
As the rapporteur has stressed several times during discussions on this directive, safety should be assured for all consumers.
This report partially achieves that and the consumer organisations which have welcomed earlier drafts of this directive will welcome this one, too.
This report makes significant improvements to existing legislation and hopefully will have the support of Parliament.
This issue has yet to be considered in detail, and in my view, the proposed period until 2003 is not too long for this process.
There are arguments on which Europe has intervened effectively but which do not receive the general support of public opinion and the citizens.
It is a vagueness that is quite common in acts of the European Parliament, the Commission or the Council, but which, in this case, could perhaps have been more fully corrected.
The overall aim of this directive is to impose a general obligation to market only safe products and to ensure both a consistent and a high level of protection of consumer health and safety throughout the EC and the proper functioning of the internal market.
Improvements in consumer health and safety represent one of the political priorities announced by this Commission.
The directive before you today is framed within the actions intended to achieve this objective.
Finally, let me again express my appreciation for your support and confidence in ensuring the rapid adoption of this important directive.
I hope it will be seen in coming years as a keystone of our efforts to ensure the safety of the European citizens.
The debate is closed.
The report promotes the following: a global fund financed by G8, the EU, oil-rich nations and others to finance access to and supply of medication and treatment; a global strategy to implement a programme of action to treat and prevent communicable diseases; tiered pricing of medicines from the pharmaceutical industry to ensure wide access to treatment; support for health infrastructure to scan, diagnose, treat and monitor patients, as supply of medicines in itself is inadequate; use of incentives - both financial and legislative - to enhance research and development to produce new medicines and vaccines by both industry and the public sector; the European Commission to work closely with the governments of developing countries, UN agencies, NGOs and civil society to implement the programme.
My intention in paragraph 14 was to ensure that if we are to find the lowest prices for medicines for poor countries and for the patients in these countries, we must ensure that the developing countries do not impose import duty and taxes on imports of essential medicines.
So there is a mistake in paragraph 14.
This paragraph really refers to import taxes in developing countries.
I also want to make an oral amendment to paragraph 9 to replace "10%" with the word "appropriate", because you cannot dictate to the European Commission and the Committee on Budgets what exact percentage of money should be spent - there are budget lines, which are already agreed in other committees and in other reports.
Again, the same problem applies: you cannot in a report like this put a fixed percentage when other committees have agreed budget lines and the Commission has budget appropriations fixed by the Council of Ministers for doing the job it is doing.
Finally, I wish to clarify the issue of the patent life of medicines, as some colleagues have expressed concern.
A new drug costs about USD 500 m to research, test and bring to market.
No government can finance such investment so we must encourage the pharmaceutical industry to continue to finance research.
Their patent is in any case irrelevant after seven or ten years as new drugs are developed and doctors will change a treatment regime, thereby precipitating the fall in price of that medicine still under patent.
The real trick - and this is what I have been trying to do in this report - is to secure tiered pricing for all medication - new and old - so that the poor patients benefit whilst the industry continues to pay for research and development.
I hope that this House will give me full support for this report, which I did not try to make political.
It concerns something that we must do for the poor so that we can tell the world, especially the poor, that the European Union is concerned about their problems and will take the lead in fighting disease and poverty throughout the world.
And medicines are often unavailable altogether.
Of the more than 1 450 new medicines which have come onto the market in the last twenty years, only thirteen are intended for tropical diseases.
For this, it will be necessary to prevent re-importation, and the industry' s cooperation will be essential in this.
This is important, since in 2005 and 2006, the TRIPS Agreement is to be implemented in developing countries.
By then, there will be major problems in combating AIDS and also tuberculosis.
But should it not succeed completely, it would be an important weapon in the battle against disease in developing countries.
I thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and for his willingness to listen to other committees.
Of course, we welcome initiatives of the type which Bill Gates carried out, but this type of preventive work cannot, and must not, depend on the efforts of single individuals.
The resolution under discussion today constitutes Parliament' s rather late response to the Commission' s initiative of last year.
Ladies and gentlemen, we should indeed welcome the Khanbhai report, which is the result of some excellent work in reaching a compromise between the various political groups and the rapporteur, and I would like to thank him for his effort.
The European Parliament' s position is therefore now clear and coherent, but, above all, it is just and fair.
In the immediate future, there are two main areas of action in which we need to intervene.
The first involves interpreting agreements on intellectual property in a way that is more favourable to the health of the developing world.
Public opinion is ready for such progress to take place and the withdrawal of actions brought against South Africa and Brazil has created a very distinct psychological climate.
The fourth WTO ministerial conference in Doha should enable us to go further in officially and formally proposing guarantees on recourse to all the components of the safeguard clauses established in the TRIPS agreement, confirming in particular that in the case of compulsory licences, drugs can be produced in third countries.
The second front on which we should expect short-term progress is the global AIDS and health fund that was launched in New York and Genoa.
It also involves, and I will end here, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, clarifications on the contribution of the European Union.
The Union committed itself in Genoa, as stated by Mr Prodi, to allocating a budget of EUR 120 million to the global health fund.
The Commission must confirm to us today that this amount will not come from and will not be deducted from other funds earmarked for development and that it is indeed an annual contribution that will be entered in the budget on the specific line from 2002.
It has actually been rather humiliating to discuss this matter, but that is why it is all the more gratifying that the EU has now done something in this area and, for example, totally untied the funds, which means that developing countries can buy wherever it is best and cheapest to do so.
Mr President, given the millions of deaths in developing countries, the European Commission' s proposal for an action programme against communicable diseases in developing countries is a strong initiative that contributes to affirming the right to health on the international stage.
If the European Union wishes to play a distinguished role in this fight and to make its action have a real impact, public health must become a priority for its cooperation in developing countries, and therefore be actually reflected in its budget.
Although it makes sense to tackle the fight against tuberculosis, malaria and AIDS in a single programme, we do, however, need to distinguish between the specific problems posed by these three diseases.
Effective and coherent action against these diseases should therefore offer different solutions depending on the case, but also combine measures on several levels.
Development policy as a whole and all Community policies should therefore contribute to the key objective of improving public health.
Secondly, it is essential that we improve or even create health structures and train the staff required for the detection, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of these diseases.
They should be involved in drawing up aid programmes in this field and be incorporated into public health action.
This means that medication should be sold at cost price to people in developing countries.
In fact, the only way to free the people of the South from the grip of the multinational firms on price fixing for drugs in the long term is to establish a regional or local pharmaceutical industry.
The TRIP agreements should be interpreted in the same fashion, and should reaffirm the right of developing countries to use compulsory licences in the event of a health emergency.
These measures are isolated, however, limited to a few products for a few countries and will take time.
All these concerns have been largely incorporated into Mr Khanbhai' s report.
It seems to me that some of the proposals in the report are very good, in the sense that these deaths will not be eradicated unless basic health services are available in each one of those countries and unless, as other Members have said, there is access to the treatments, to the medicines which can put an end to these illnesses.
Therefore, the proposal for a Commission plan and also the proposal that we contribute to an international fund to fight against these diseases seems right to us.
The rapporteur rightly indicates in paragraph 13 of the resolution the fact that demanding structural changes of these countries sometimes prevents them from using sufficient public funds for the health services.
It is a vicious circle that causes a very large part of the population of the Third World countries to be in this situation.
I believe, Mr President, that prevention, better quality of life for these people, access to medicines and access to a basic health service, as the report proposes, are essential elements for a solution.
The rapporteur also points out very clearly that it is necessary to increase development aid.
It is already more than twenty years since the United Nations proposed that 0.7% of the GDP should be allocated to development.
I would like to end, Mr President, by recalling the multiplier effect that the participation of women may have in each of these programmes.
As a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, I was involved in projects financed by the European Union and I could see how the participation of native women in that zone had a multiplier effect, because women can help their daughters and their fellow women to learn.
The necessary transfer of technology might, in addition, be envisaged in terms of allowing those employed in the medical sector in the EU to spend a couple of years in developing countries, working on such technology transfer programmes.
Yet, because of the continuing population growth, today there are more poor people in the world than all those that have ever lived throughout history.
The report draws specific attention to the triangle of poverty, health and education, no part of which can be ignored without action in the other two areas coming to nothing.
We should bear in mind the Copenhagen Social Summit pledge to attain universal and equitable access to primary health care.
Mr President, I should like to begin by commending both the Commission communication and Mr Khanbhai's report.
Only 0.1% of the 25 million people living with HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa have access to lifesaving drugs or indeed for the drugs for the opportunistic infections such as meningitis, drug-resistant diarrhoea, oral thrush and those other infections.
In India for instance, companies are marketing a drug for the treatment of that drug-resistant diarrhoea, at 1.8% of the price charged in Pakistan where only the patented version can be bought.
Prices in Brazil have fallen by 80% and they have halved the number of deaths from HIV/AIDS.
Of the 1223 new drugs marketed between 1975 and 1996, only 13 of those drugs were developed to treat tropical diseases and only 4 of those 13 were the result of the pharmaceutical industry's research.
They have - and this is a very important point to make and it will be made in Doha - a virtual monopoly which means that they can control prices.
The big four pharmaceutical companies act like a cartel: they bully developing countries and they deny them their rights to those drugs.
The TRIPS Agreement was a clear example of the powerful vested interests of the developed world at this time.
For patients in developing countries, the medicines are too expensive and the medical infrastructure to provide care for them is lacking.
May I ask the Commissioner whether he has sufficient personnel resources available for this?
It is also a requirement that the twenty-year patent protection term specified in the TRIPS Agreement be considerably reduced for essential medicines.
The pharmaceutical industry must, of course, be able to continue investing in research into vaccines and cheap medicines, but must gain its profits in the rich countries and not in the epidemic-ridden Third World.
It is appalling when we take account of the fact that three communicable diseases are killing five million people per year in poor countries and ten thousand people per day in Africa alone and that, moreover, the number of victims is increasing.
The cause of this situation is simple.
Drug manufacturing is monopolised by large pharmaceutical corporations, whose prime concern is not public health, but profit.
The recent ignominious action brought by certain pharmaceutical corporations against South Africa is characteristic of this intolerable situation, even though public opinion did, to a certain extent, cause these corporations to back off.
The report' s proposal that aims for the European Union to recognise on the international level the right of developing countries to produce and sell generic drugs within their countries, without costs resulting from intellectual property rights, is the least we can do.
The report limits itself to mentioning a reduction in prices.
Millions of people in poor countries will only be able to have access to minimum treatment if certain drugs, particularly malaria drugs, are free of charge.
The heading of the report says that the fight against infectious diseases contributes to poverty reduction.
We will have to operate on two levels to combat these diseases.
There are 25 million people living with AIDS in Africa and 6 million in the new-growth area in Asia - South and Southeast Asia in particular.
In Zambia the department of health then estimated that half the population would die of AIDS.
I congratulate him and the Commission on the work that has been done on this matter and everyone who has participated.
It has rightly been said that research should be conducted in Africa, by Africans, for Africans and, where appropriate, with the support, cooperation and partnership of the Western world, along the lines of the IAVI initiative between Oxford and Nairobi.
I want us and the Commissioner to keep those people who are dying of these diseases in mind and see what we can do.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the common feature of all the statements made in this debate so far is the belief that investment in healthcare is extremely worthwhile and is an important way of achieving sustainable development and combating poverty, which are two objectives of European development policy.
I believe that in future, too, the European Union must assist the developing countries to benefit from the opportunities already afforded by the TRIPS agreement.
Naturally, this is set forth in the provisions of the TRIPS agreement, but has not always been accepted by the pharmaceutical industry, as the case of South Africa shows.
In my view, the proposal outlined in paragraph 41 of the Khanbhai report on reducing the period of patent protection is essential.
Mr President, in 1979, Willy Brandt presented his famous "North-South Report, a programme for survival", in which he warned of the risk that in the year 2000 a large part of the population would continue to live in poverty.
Shortly after that pronouncement some frightening statistics were published; every 24 hours, 35 000 human beings died of hunger in the world.
In two years, hunger caused more deaths than the two world wars put together.
The year 2000 arrived and the situation has only got worse.
According to the World Health Organisation, extreme poverty - misery - is the chief cause of suffering in the world and is also the one which each year claims the greatest number of human lives and yet we are still talking about poverty and how we are going to remedy it.
A few months ago, before the summer, at our Brussels headquarters, the United Nations together with the EU organised the Third Conference on the Least-developed Countries dedicated in particular to analysing the causes, consequences and solutions of poverty.
Our concern now is to combat the international terrorism fostered by some notorious fanatics.
Between 13 and 19 September some of us were visiting some of the poorest regions of the planet, in the south of the African continent.
Mozambique today has 19 million inhabitants but within 9 years only 13 million will still be alive; the remaining 6 will have died of Aids.
Today Mr Khanbhai in his report proposes a series of measures to combat Aids, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of reducing poverty.
For all these diseases which today can be cured and eradicated, there are drugs.
It is a problem of resources, and above all, it is a problem of political will.
But, Mr Bashir, you know your native Africa better than I do.
Either we fight against poverty with all our energy and all our resources until we conquer it, or poverty with its many faces - now taking the form of terrorism - will conquer us.
Mr President, others have established the need for action.
I will never forget the representative for SmithKline Beecham sitting in our EU/ACP Joint Assembly in Brussels, banging the table and saying that they had lowered the prices of essential medicines.
I have asked SmithKline Beecham what is the genuine, long-term cost of production of these drugs.
I will always remember that SmithKline Beecham's key anti-retroviral drug was not brought onto the market because of privately-funded research.
Tuberculosis is the most prevalent disease in the world, and 35 million people are infected with AIDS, with half of all new HIV infections occurring in the 15-24 year-old age group.
I hope this will now change with the publication of the new policy framework by the Commission and its proposed programme of action for the years 2001-2006.
His call for the EU to devote 10% of our development aid to tackling this problem, his emphasis on preventative action with the 15-24 year-old age group in relation to AIDS, and his proposal for a global fund for infectious diseases and the establishment of an EU research agency should be the cornerstone of any new EU policy in this area.
Health in developing countries is, together with education, one of the six priorities for the Commission for 2002.
In Botswana USD 100 million has been mobilised jointly by Merck, one of the big pharmaceutical companies, and the Bill Gates Foundation.
The absence of infrastructure in this area, of educated nurses and of the conditions required for these types of advanced medicine, which are very difficult to administer, to work, shows that even concentrated, well-funded efforts spanning one-and-a-half years in a place that is better organised than most others in Africa has not done the trick.
All this work is taking place.
It must be borne in mind that macroeconomic support, our budget support, is in fact linked to health and education.
At present it is extremely difficult to quantify this specifically but we are working on this.
If you cannot access a neighbouring market from a given African country investing there in order to do something in this area is not a good idea.
The question of access to medicines, an issue brought up by many, is currently being discussed at the TRIPS Council in Geneva.
The discussions have sought to strike a balance between the need to pursue access to affordable medicines and the implementation of the TRIPS Agreement.
It is the Commission's view that compulsory licenses should be issued in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 31 of the TRIPS Agreement.
We are working towards a global system of tiered pricing that will supply markets on a sustainable basis.
In paragraph 38 the report calls for the establishment of a fund for infectious diseases.
I agree with what a few of the speakers said concerning the situation of women.
Mrs Sandbæk mentioned the issue of testing.
Concerning the activity of the Commission in the area of research, the reality is that we are proving quite successful in the attempt to organise a big Africa-focused network and to carry out testing as part of the whole research and development process.
The subject of the Global AIDS and Health Fund was touched upon by many speakers.
There are still many questions to resolve before it becomes clear what real added value the fund will create, especially in the most important area of improving delivery on the ground, which is still the biggest challenge.
I thank the rapporteur, Mr Khanbai.
Mr Howitt, you can communicate it in writing, thank you.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at noon.
This is an agreement that has been reached between all the groups.
Madam President, I would simply like to say that, of course, it goes without saying that my group is, completely and unequivocally, firmly opposed to terrorism and, therefore, in agreement with the principle of the Commission' s proposal of depriving these terrorist organisations of their funds.
However, my group finds the method imposed on us unacceptable, in other words, having to decide urgently on a list that was sent to us by the United States without explanation... ...
It is more precise, more accurate and has the same meaning.
Although there is widespread support for some other oral amendments which I was going to make, I understand there is opposition from the Greens so the only oral amendment that I wish to make now concerns paragraph 14.
We are pleased that it is based on Article 308 of the Treaty.
This means that there is a role for the Court of Justice and this means that there is a role for the European Parliament.
Mrs Buitenweg, I would like to answer you with regard to the way votes are conducted in this House.
Mr Wurtz was the only one to make this request.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE To those colleagues who are asking for the floor for an oral explanation of vote on the procedures without report, I remind you that oral explanations of vote cannot be made for procedures without report.
Yes, it is in Rule 137: "When a Commission proposal or report is on the agenda of Parliament pursuant to Rules 62, paragraph 5, or 114, Members may submit written explanations of vote pursuant to Rule 1." International terrorism (C5-0455/2001) President, I have supported the request for specific measures against terrorism in particular because the right of judicial challenge to the European Court of Justice is enshrined in the legal base.
This has been clarified by the adoption of the amendments put forward by the Green Group in order to protect human rights.
We cannot be neutral against terror.
For years the European Parliament has called for the support of the civilian population in Afghanistan which has been the subject of terrorism from the Taliban.
While reaffirming our complete opposition both to terrorist methods and to the reactionary objectives pursued by those responsible for these acts, we refuse to associate ourselves will all of the proposals from the Council of the European Union.
We protest against the measures restricting individual freedoms that this climate of war is bringing about.
Like everybody else we are appalled by the attacks that took place on 11 September.
Apart from the fact that we refuse to set a precedent on urgent procedures, which could then dramatically increase, we have questions regarding the list proposed in the annex, which reveals genuine and fundamental problems.
Of course, we are in total agreement with the principle of implementing specific measures against people and goods linked to terrorism, in order to fight it more effectively.
We must, however, state our strong disagreement with the method that the Commission has sought to impose in presenting its "draft regulation on specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities with a view to combating international terrorism" .
We feel it is unacceptable, however, that a list of organisations and individuals, possibly supplied by the government and intelligence services of the United States - a country which not so long ago opposed any monitoring of tax havens - should be submitted for the approval of the European Parliament, when no supporting evidence has been provided.
We think it is completely unacceptable that Parliament should take a view on a regulation proposed by the Commission on the basis of the paper before us, which has been presented in a hurry and which Coreper criticises for lack of cohesion and consistency.
The list attached to the proposal in Annex 1 is of organisations and individuals suspected of being directly or indirectly involved in acts of terrorism.
The proposal contains no guidelines as to how, or in accordance with which criteria, individuals or organisations are to be added to, or crossed off, the list, and it has not been specified which authorities are authorised to draw up the list and according to what principles.
The European Parliament has been forced into rushed action without any reports, debate or access to the text of the legislation in many languages, including Swedish.
The origin of this list cannot be traced to any legal procedure whatsoever, but comes from the CIA.
In addition, all the names on the list are easily identifiable as Arabic/Muslim.
It is this fundamental right that the Commission would have us abolish.
What is being required of us is that we undertake to judge these 27 with blindfolds on - definitively and with no recourse to appeal.
This draft regulation quite simply asks us to trust the CIA in cutting off the means of subsistence from the 27 groups described, rightly or wrongly, as terrorists by the very agency which, more importantly, is behind some of them.
We agree that the EU must combat international terrorism in all areas.
Nonetheless, we have general reservations about the proposal and, for example, reject the list of 27 terrorist organisations.
These organisations all appear to be Muslim, which may be construed as discrimination when there are also non-Muslim terrorist organisations.
It would be absurd to go forward with a list of names that could refer ambiguously to thousands of people in the Islamic world, rolling innocent people in with sinister ones.
We strongly believe that granting such powers without proper debate and without a parliamentary report on the matter is legally questionable.
The European Parliament was asked to vote on a list of 27 organisations without any explanation as to the basis under which they were chosen, who or what they are, and without any mention of safeguards if one of these organisations or persons was wrongfully accused.
We do not believe that the European Parliament has the right to act as judge and jury on such matters and most especially when the facts are not clearly explained in a transparent and open manner.
The American list of 27 suspected organisations with an Islamic background raises in some cases the suspicion that the support of governments in the battle against international terrorism is being bought by labelling their internal opponents terrorists as well.
We are, then, committing the same error as in making abortion, euthanasia and trading in soft drugs by inhabitants of Member States indictable offences where these are permitted by the legal administrations of other Member States.
In the justified battle against real terrorism, not everything now being proposed is fair and appropriate - not by a long chalk.
What has been submitted here, however, is a list of individuals and organisations who are merely assumed to have been involved in some way in the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.
However, it is possible to proceed against them, even without a judicial process or final proof.
Such a measure would be comparable with being remanded in custody, when suspects have not yet been found guilty in a court of law.
I therefore voted against the resolution despite my sharp condemnation of terrorism.
Naturally the European Union is being cautious in its response, so far at least, but there a number of sensitive points which merit special attention: a) the reference to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, without specifying the country from which the attack has emanated, creates a particularly dangerous climate of war and reckoning; b) police measures to combat terrorism must be limited by respect for citizens' freedoms; c) a policy needs to be defined towards "friendly" countries such as Saudi Arabia, which have helped by funding the spread of fundamentalism; d) resolving the Palestinian question, especially the problem of Jerusalem, will release huge numbers of Muslims from under the spell and control of Islam; e) fundamental intervention in the global problem of poverty will free whole societies in Asia and Africa from the despair which feeds terrorism; f) the European Union must avoid Mr Berlusconi's divisiveness and Mr Blair's sermonising and take a calm and friendly approach towards Islam.
The fight against international terrorism will only be totally effective if it is carried out under the auspices of the United Nations and this is why we specifically reject the use of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, which runs the risk of dragging the European Union and the international community into a spiral of violence with incalculable consequences.
What we do feel is important is that, in parallel with the fight against international terrorism, we pursue the fight against money laundering, including the abolition of tax havens.
The international community has a duty to seek to understand what may have led to these terrible crimes.
The formation of a coalition of the rich and powerful, led by him, against the poor and rebellious will be counter-productive in the long run.
In addition, we wish to ensure that any new counter-terrorist legislation is also used to bear down on those terrorist organisations, such as the IRA in all its forms, and ETA, that have been conducting terrorist campaigns from and within EU Member States over the past several decades.
The Ecofin Council, however, once again demonstrated its inability to communicate.
It did not make any proposal in proportion to what is at stake.
In order to prevent a global recession, it makes perfect sense to boost economic activity by means of coordinated action with Japan and the United States, through increasing public expenditure up to a limit of 3% of the public deficit of each EU Member State, on the condition that: the purpose of increasing expenditure is to improve public investment and to encourage private investment; and at the same time, efforts are redoubled to implement structural reforms that stimulate employment, investment and competitiveness.
Hieronymi Report (A5-0286/2001) The adoption of the "Television without Frontiers" directive was a milestone in Community legislation.
Below are the three most important points: a) viewers need to be protected from the flood of advertisements by strengthening the binding arrangements in the directive and controlling and punishing televisions stations which infringe them; b) minors need general protection at Community level from advertising and from programmes which desensitise them to violence and anti-social behaviour; and c) stricter, specific measures are needed to promote European productions and make it easier for producers in small countries to break into the wider European market. , Färm, Hedkvist Petersen, Hulthén, Hans Karlsson, Theorin (PSE), in writing. (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats believe that it is vital that minors be protected from television advertising aimed at children , as this group is particularly susceptible and may have difficulty differentiating advertising from other programming.
Meanwhile, regarding the protection of minors, the report asks the Member States to step up their dialogue, to define common solutions without threatening their independence in terms of national restrictions for the protection of minors.
This can be put in another way by saying that the audiovisual sector plays an essential role in democracy and informing the people, and is therefore emerging as a reflection of the level of freedom of expression and plurality of ideas that can be expressed and understood.
Moreover, the report also highlights the extent to which the audiovisual sector is a leading sector both in the economy and for employment in the European Union: in 1997, the audiovisual sector employed more than a million people in Europe and its revenue should increase by 70% between now and 2005. (Speech cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Berès Report (A5-0307/2001) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 January 2002, economic and monetary union will be completed.
Paragraph 2: It is good that the Eurogroup is developing its cooperation on monetary issues.
However, to transfer all cooperation on economic policy to the Eurogroup would be wrong.
Each national State is, more than anything else, concerned with protecting the interests of its own capitalist class and favours national policy most suited to that objective.
Without tax gifts to capitalist companies, budgets could be used more for public services without being in deficit as a result.
The report advocates the coordination of economic policies, but realises that the institutions that could perform this do not exist.
The involvement of the national parliaments in the form of an annual evaluation of the application of the broad economic policy guidelines decided in the European Council and the debate on the stability programmes approved by the Commission and the Council, are no more than a semblance of democracy, the aim of which is to entrap national representations in Community procedures, especially when it is proposed to strengthen the role of the Commission and impose sanctions on Member States which fail to apply the economic policy imposed by Brussels.
I hope that the Commission will continue in its efforts to guide national governments' approach to tax relief, specifically by establishing a 'code of conduct' .
It is equally important that we give priority to the access of young people to the labour market as well as to lifelong learning, which will require an increase in public and private spending in the fields of education, research and development, along with, of course, the respective structural reforms, so that the effective transition to a knowledge-based society can go ahead.
For example, the report contrasts inevitably "ill-managed" public investment with the private sector, which is, naturally, efficient.
Its main function is to once again affirm the neo-liberal dogma codified in the "Stability Pact" signed in Amsterdam in 1997, and to condemn the adjustments suggested at the Gothenburg summit on automatic stabilisers.
This was the method successfully used in America under Roosevelt during the `30s crisis, and with which western Europe was successfully rebuilt after 1945.
In all those cases, whether we agreed with them or not, the result was an unexpected number of satisfied people.
Longo report (A5-0299/2001) Prominent in this report is a whole set of demands for speeding up the process of liberalisation in various sectors.
It even criticises the Stockholm European Council for not having fixed a timetable for the definitive liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets, which is unacceptable.
There were 345 new mergers in 2000, to quote the report, thanks to increasingly flexible legislation which fosters the creation of large monopolies which acquire dominant market positions.
The competition policy applied has resulted in large branches of European industry dismissing workers and losing important shares of the global market and hundreds of thousands of jobs.
The pillar of this Directive is the country of origin approach.
If the European Parliament and the Lisbon European Council have set a deadline of 2005 for establishing an integrated market in financial services, we cannot afford to adopt incoherent legislation or keep re-examining decisions which have already been taken, unless we have very good reason to do so.
This applies not only to some Members of this House but also to the Council, whose vote last Thursday on the Directive on Distance Marketing of Financial Services I greatly regret.
The rapporteur, as well as agreeing with the Commission proposal, highlights the need to speed up and complete the process of liberalisation in sectors such as postal services, electricity and energy, which we are bound to reject, since, in general, this is designed to demote the State to a role of merely regulating the activities of public services, establishing supposedly independent regulatory bodies, which are directly or indirectly controlled by economic and financial groups.
By and large, the results of liberalisation are redundancies, increased prices for public service provision, a reduction in the quantity and quality of service provision and the rejection of the right of universal access to public services.
Khanbai report (A5-0263/2001) The Khanbhai report makes an extraordinary analysis of one of the most serious challenges facing the world today; the fight against the main communicable diseases in the context of poverty reduction.
Communicable diseases kill around 10 000 people every day in Africa, with 35 million people throughout the world contaminated with Aids.
These diseases cause not only human suffering and an extremely high number of deaths, which are in themselves justification enough for such a response, but also cause a drastic reduction in life expectancy and in the labour force, with all the social and economic consequences that this entails They seriously disable large working populations, retard social and economic development and destabilise communities that are already weakened.
It is even more of a disgrace when there is the certain prospect - based on official studies and research - that the situation will get worse.
The acceptance that health is a "global public good", as the report rightly points out, cannot be reconciled with the fact that a large proportion of the world's population is deprived of access to education, housing, employment, food, safe drinking water, conditions of hygiene and health services.
It is insulting and hypocritical to state that the "global public good" of health is being hit particularly hard in underdeveloped countries, while at the same time imposing structural changes on these countries by reducing expenditure on the public service sector, especially the health and education sectors.
The first should be to the government of Macedonia.
Mr President, although our views on the NLA might differ slightly, I endorse Mr Haarder's comments that the task now is to preserve peace.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the weapons have been collected, so it is claimed.
If this issue had been addressed seven or eight years ago, instead of just two years ago, and if progressive measures had been taken to make all citizens equal, the rebels would not have had such an easy ride, in my view.
It is a pity, but it is the fault of all the political parties on the ground.
Macedonia is a state.
Hannes Swoboda, Joost Lagendijk and I will try to bring influence to bear on our Macedonian colleagues over the next two days.
But all in all, the peace process in Macedonia may still be considered a small miracle.
The Afghan crisis, the war on terrorism, must not distract our attention from this part of the world.
I hope that our fellow MEPs who are departing tomorrow for Skopje will be able sufficiently to alert our counterparts over there to this problem.
I also fully support extension of the mandate of the European Agency for Reconstruction in that region.
Macedonia should be brought under the scope of that regulation, and I also hope that we as Members of the European Parliament will be paying enough attention to the work of the European Agency for Reconstruction, so that we may be sure that the European taxpayer' s money is well spent in an efficient and timely manner in that region.
Mr President, if the constitutional changes and reform laws in Macedonia come into force - and we hope that this will happen soon - the country will have minority rights legislation which far outstrips the standards in the majority of European countries and most EU Member States.
We always talk very pompously about European standards - which, in reality, do not exist in this form - and often demand that other countries meet criteria which many of our own EU Member States are not prepared to comply with themselves.
Nonetheless, I am gratified by this positive development in Macedonia, not only in the wake of the most recent acts of violence but over the last two years since the Georgievski government embarked on a reform course in this area.
We must finally take action on the financial resources for Macedonia, which must be used to benefit the country as a whole, including the very underdeveloped east and south and not just the capital or the few regions which were particularly affected by the crisis.
The future of the country appears to the intermediaries to be too important a matter to be left in the hands of its citizens.
Apart from the NATO corps of 200 soldiers which is now stationed in the country, intolerable pressure is also being exerted by the so-called donor meeting.
In 50 years' time, the roles will be reversed as Albanians come to form the largest group in Macedonia.
Only through an agreement based on equality can two peoples find a way to live peacefully as good neighbours.
In that respect, much can be learned from the government structures of multi-lingual federal states such as Belgium, Switzerland and Spain.
We face truly formidable challenges over the next few weeks and months in FYROM.
The EU is fully behind the Framework Agreement and is committed to providing financial assistance, including assistance for emergency aid and for measures in support of the agreement.
We have provided over EUR 10 m in humanitarian assistance through ECHO since the crisis began; EUR 54.5 m under CARDS in 2001, which includes a recent top-up of EUR 12 m for housing reconstruction, local infrastructure and support for host families; EUR 12.8 m under the Rapid Reaction Mechanism to repair and reconstruct houses, to repair electricity and to support confidence-building measures, such as mine clearance, election monitoring and police training; and EUR 50 m in macro-financial assistance still to be disbursed from a previous macro-financial package, which is being combined with an additional grant of EUR18 m to help FYROM cope with the specific needs arising from the crisis.
The Commission and the World Bank are ready to organise a donor meeting on 15 October, provided that the Macedonian Parliament adopts the necessary constitutional changes set out in the Framework Agreement.
Our paramount concern is to ensure that we act quickly and flexibly.
The agency has people on the ground and direct experience in the region, notably in the sort of emergency reconstruction that we will need to deliver in FYROM this autumn, as well as in longer-term assistance of the type it is now overseeing, for example in Serbia.
We therefore urge Parliament to give positive consideration to our proposal to extend the mandate of the agency.
A lot has to be done in this area and FYROM must demonstrate that it can live up to international standards by respecting minority rights and show that its democratic structures are stable enough for it to pursue its path towards European integration - in simple terms, to become a member of the European family.
United Nations World Day to overcome extreme poverty Mr President, would dedicating a resolution from this House on extreme poverty on this occasion be giving in to opportunism?
I would like to remind you that on 17 October 1987 Father Wrezinski, with 100 000 people, talked about the life of the poorest families and people in our whole society and since that day, the World Day to overcome extreme poverty reminds us each year that it is our duty to unite in respecting human rights when they are violated.
If we adopt this resolution today, we are paying tribute not only to the commitment of the families and people who face extreme poverty themselves, but also to the commitment of all the associations and citizens who stand beside them.
Also, throughout the European Union, especially since the Lisbon summit, the public, national and European authorities are constantly highlighting the fight against exclusion and particularly the need for an integration policy.
It is in this spirit that today, on behalf of my group, I am presenting this resolution, which asks the Member States to develop real strategies aimed at equal access for all to fundamental rights such as education, housing and healthcare as well as culture and sustainable employment.
It is also in this spirit that we are asking the European authorities and, as far as we are concerned, our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Commission, to make an assessment of the policies conducted in the field every 17 October and thirdly, we ask, for the future of course, that a stone be laid in the square in front of the European Parliament in Brussels in honour of the victims of poverty like those laid in the squares at the Trocadero in Paris, the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, in Berlin, Rome and at the UN.
It is a simple but nevertheless important tribute that we want to pay today by putting forward this resolution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I start my speech proper, I wish to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Secretariat and the Bureau to the fact that, at least in the Portuguese version, paragraphs 2 and 11 of the Resolution are practically identical, probably as the result of a mistake in the drafting of the text.
We do so in the footsteps of the person who proclaimed this day in 1987 and following the decision of the United Nations in 1992, which enshrined it throughout the world.
We must, of course, look at the programmes that we ourselves have put together to attack poverty and social exclusion.
Some things have been done in our countries to combat disease, need and profound social inequalities; there are new challenges that we are aware of, specifically in the context of the information society, but there are also new problems, affecting what we in Portugal call the 'new poor' .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, poverty in the world is a violation of human rights and an intolerable breach of human dignity.
This poverty has increased in the last six years.
In the European Union there are 65 million people living on less than 60% of the national average income, to say nothing of the differences within the Member States.
It is thanks to social transfers and social assistance systems that the poverty level has remained at 18% in the Union.
The Laeken European Council should adopt political measures on income, employment, housing, health, education, training and culture.
This is also why, on the occasion of the World Day against poverty, which will take place on 17 October, the European Parliament, in cooperation with the associations concerned, should also promote initiatives to raise awareness and to mobilise people to eliminate poverty and destitution.
I hope that this day will enable us to make a further commitment to implementing programmes against poverty, by developing economic and social policies that really deal with the underlying causes of that poverty.
The central government is doing its level best to block any form of communication between the dissidents and the rest of the world.
In addition, Vietnam must protect, safeguard and guarantee human rights.
Mr President, twelve years ago, a Czech human rights activist in Prague wanted to appeal to a Western head of government for help in the face of his impending imprisonment.
That is why it is in the European Union's interests to abandon its policies of autosuggestion at last and speak out about human rights violations in Vietnam.
Mr President, Vietnam has once again flouted its international commitments and its own Constitution.
The conviction, following a botched trial, on 26 September, of 14 members of the mountain ethnic groups for having peacefully demonstrated in favour of freedom of religion and the establishment of an autonomous area in their province is a fresh illustration of this acknowledged contempt for human rights.
The failure to respect individual freedoms should not be tolerated in a country that claims to be democratic and which we have ourselves supported in its fight for independence.
Vietnam, which is an economic and trade partner of Europe, and which has also ratified the international convention on civil and political rights, must respect its international commitments and stop persecuting ethnic minorities.
Political liberalisation must go hand in hand with economic liberalisation.
Mr President, today I must join with the authors of the joint resolution in standing against the failure to respect human rights in Vietnam.
The European Parliament has spoken out many times on this matter, the last time only three months ago, to condemn the violation of the freedom to practice religion.
The country, which is still run by a Communist party, still represses, on a daily basis, any group or individual considered to be a threat by those in power.
What is also serious is that no international organisation or independent observer is authorised to come and monitor the human rights situation in the country.
Let us recall that in April, Vietnam celebrated the 25th anniversary of its reunification.
Vietnam is demanding a place on the international stage and has potentially everything in its favour to become a prosperous country.
By signing a partnership and cooperation agreement with the European Union in 1995, Vietnam gave a formal commitment to respect human rights and promote democracy.
The joint EC/Vietnam Committee that met in September in Hanoi reconsidered all the aspects of relations with the European Union, including the joint agreement on democracy, good governance, human rights and the rule of law.
I call on Parliament today to give its full support to the European Commission in implementing its partnership strategy in the region.
We must all encourage the process of reform in Vietnam.
We acknowledge that there are human rights problems in that country to be tackled, but we welcome its partnership in the fight against terrorism.
They do not report that six million children under 14 are affected.
They do not report that drinking water and irrigation water is in desperately short supply, that most of the crops in the affected areas have failed, that poor-quality drinking water and sanitation problems have resulted in one of the highest levels of ill health in the region.
Malnutrition and poverty have reached crisis point.
We also need to help the country change from its heavy use of agrochemicals, its diversion of rivers and its poor drainage system.
I am sure that Commissioner Nielson, who is the appropriate person to participate in this debate today, is already giving thought to these issues and making preparations with his staff for what has to be done today, but above all, what must be done in the event of further disasters, e.g.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to fully endorse Mr Swoboda's words.
The situation there is disastrous, including in the area of public health.
The situation there is degrading.
East Timor Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, East Timor is the first new State to emerge freely and democratically onto the international stage at the start of the new millennium.
The European Parliament must take pleasure in this result.
In particular, I wish to refer to Carlos Costa Neves, who has chaired the inter-group 'For East Timor' and who has taken part in each of the European Parliament' s missions to that country.
Lastly, I must say that I am glad to see a considerable degree of consensus and multiparty support for the candidature of Xanana Gusmão for the Presidency of East Timor.
Three years ago, anyone in this House who said that this would really be happening today would definitely have been called crazy.
Three years ago, we could not have imagined the referendum of August 1999 and the overwhelming consensus of the Timorese people.
It would have been impossible to imagine that the tragic crisis following the referendum would be overcome and that, on 30 August this year, we would have the first elections of a new, free and independent State.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the East Timorese people on the conduct of the peaceful and democratic elections for the Constituent Assembly on 30 August.
I am particularly honoured to be able to speak about East Timor today as I was the Chief Observer of the European Union Election Observation Mission in the country between 23 August and 11 September, and was able to see for myself just how important these elections were for the people of East Timor.
Before I turn to substantive issues, however, I would first like to congratulate UNTAET and especially Sergio Vieira de Mello on their work, which was often carried out under very difficult conditions.
East Timor has taken the first step towards independence and the founding of a separate state.
For East Timor's further institutional development, it is also important for the EU to participate in the arrangements for the presidential elections and the necessary voter education.
After my many discussions in the country itself, I am certain that the East Timorese people are aware of the problems facing their country and understand only too well how difficult the way ahead will be.
Not all is rosy, however, in Timor as you all know.
Only with the help of the international community, specifically the European Union, will Timor be able to turn its independence into something marvellous and a fine example for the rest of the world.
My own country, Portugal, will certainly devote a great deal of affection and support to Timor, since it has become both a Portuguese and a universal cause.
Colombia Mr President, Colombia - one of South America's oldest democracies and a country which, unusually for this continent, has not been prone to military dictatorship - is tragically a victim of 37 years of civil war and terrorist activity, which have destroyed infrastructure, killed 40 000 people and corrupted its civil and military authorities through guerrilla involvement with the drugs trade.
Last Sunday it killed the much-loved former culture minister, Consuelo Araujo Noguera, and on Tuesday Congressman Octavio Sarmiento.
I am sure that this House will join me in sending a message of condolence to their grieving families.
Only the Colombian Government can decide what is best for the future of its country and what price it is prepared to pay to achieve peace.
I would like to state that up to now, in the documentation I have seen, I have not found any involvement by the Government of the United Kingdom in the violence in Colombia.
The fact is that in Colombia people are being killed - the revolutionaries (the FARC) kill them, the paramilitary organisations linked to the Government kill them - and to make any kind of pronouncement right now as to the guilty parties in Colombia seems premature to me.
At present there is a situation of violence and those responsible for that violence are in fact the Europeans, because we Europeans left in Colombia, as in many other countries, a trail of injustice, of social differences, which persist to this day.
The European Union has been concerned with Colombia for a long time.
But we have at least succeeded in increasing the country' s economic activity to the point where, today, 40% of Colombian exports are destined for the countries of the European Union.
I believe that in the European Union we are faced with a somewhat desperate task, because the years are passing and the violence continues.
If the events of 11 September have demonstrated anything it is that violence in the world has no limits, that in a globalised world violence affects us all and that therefore, any action we take in a faraway country such as Colombia ultimately benefits our own citizens as well.
We have to protect our citizens and the citizens of the whole world in lands as remote as Colombia.
I am convinced that both the Commission and the Council will agree with Parliament on continuing to help the Colombian Government and the political leaders of good faith of that country to find a solution to put an end to the escalation of violence, which seems to be plunging Colombia, that magnificent and stupendous Latin American country, ever more into the abyss.
No other country in the world has as many murders of active trade unionists as Colombia.
The Colombian Left has been, and continues to be, subject to a terror campaign without parallel.
At least 90 percent of the political murders are carried out by the paramilitaries or the military.
The EU' s role must be to uphold human rights, support the peace process and oppose the military escalation of the conflict inherent in Plan Colombia.
Colombia can only achieve peace and real democracy if human rights are respected.
The eight bullets that assassinated Yolanda Cerón, head of social care in Tumaco, were also foretold and once and for all destroyed the already precarious working conditions of human rights activists on the ground.
Just before killing Yolanda, the paramilitaries publicly executed thirteen peasants in Teima.
On Sunday morning, the former Culture Minister, who had previously been kidnapped, Consuelo Araujo Noguera, was murdered during a chase between the army and the guerrillas.
Then, the day before yesterday, the paramilitaries assassinated Octavio Sarmiento, a Member of the National Congress.
On the contrary, the law on defence and national security, ratified by President Pastrana in August, made the situation even worse.
The European Union needs to question the bases of its cooperation with Colombia.
If the European Union takes defending human rights seriously, it should explain its criteria and mechanisms for evaluation and effective protection to us.
If it takes the peace process seriously, it should encourage the pursuit of dialogue between the government and the guerrillas, categorically exclude the paramilitaries from the negotiations and support the report from the committee of experts, published on 28 September.
While the challenge of combating poverty and social exclusion is particularly acute in developing countries, it also remains an issue of major concern within the European Union.
The most recent available evidence shows that 18%, or over 60 million of our population in the EU, are at risk of falling into the category of being among the relative poor.
At the European Councils of Lisbon, Nice and Stockholm, Member States made a commitment to promote sustainable economic growth and quality employment which will reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion as well as strengthening social cohesion in the Union between 2001 and 2010.
To underpin their commitment, the Council developed common objectives in the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
Furthermore, the Council established a new open method of coordination which encourages Member States to work together to improve the impact on social inclusion of policies in fields such as social protection, employment, health, housing and education.
The national action plans and the development of comparable indicators provide the framework for promoting exchange of good practice and mutual learning at Community level.
This will be supported from 2002 by a five-year Community action programme on social inclusion which was finalised following a successful conciliation session involving Parliament, the Council and the Commission on 18 September.
All Member States submitted their national action plans against poverty and social exclusion during June this year.
The Commission has been analysing these reports and expects to adopt a draft joint inclusion report on 10 October.
This will be the first time that there has been such an EU-level analysis documenting and comparing the situation on poverty and social exclusion across all Member States.
The issues and concerns raised in the debate on these resolutions are thus well reflected in the initiatives that are being taken.
However, a key challenge for the future will be to ensure that all Community decisions, in economic and employment as well as social, policies, are assessed for their impact on social cohesion.
Days like the United Nations World Day for the eradication of poverty provide an important opportunity to remind us of the urgency of the challenge we face if we are to build a more inclusive and peaceful world free from the scandal of poverty and social exclusion.
In the case of Vietnam, the number of offences where the death penalty can be applied was reduced last year.
Our principal concern remains that of freedom of opinion.
The detention and interrogation of 15 people last month reported by Human Rights Watch was apparently linked to a request to the government to set up an independent "National Association to Fight Corruption" .
The common thread in all these cases is that, despite some real progress, Vietnam remains a country little accustomed to public dissent.
The situation of the Montagnards in the central provinces arose from a complex set of unresolved old problems, but was certainly exacerbated by the lack of effective channels of communication between the local people and the central government.
Next month, we will be holding in Hanoi a meeting of the EC-Vietnam Joint Commission, at which all aspects of our relations will be reviewed, including our shared commitment to respect for human rights.
We shall continue to raise particular issues of concern and individual cases and to encourage continued progress on human rights in Vietnam.
On the situation in Uzbekistan, the Commission shares the European Parliament' s concern about the present situation in Central Asia.
The July 2001 UN assessment mission to Western Uzbekistan has attributed the absence of water to fundamental structural problems (such as irrigation and crop policies).
We are, however, looking at this region from a humanitarian aid point of view, where we see a real risk of a negative fall-out from the situation in Afghanistan.
In fact, ECHO will include a strengthening of the ability to do something relating to this part of the world in a package soon.
The absence of democracy, transparency and accountability, corruption at all levels and misuse of the flow of assistance provided by the international community are all part of the problem.
Since the independence of these countries, no real effort for maintaining the water system has been made.
In addition, national rivalries between the countries in the region have blocked cooperation and also international efforts have been made more difficult.
We have been active in Central Asia in trying to develop long-term projects linked with the structural causes of the drought.
The Commission thinks that only long-term reform by the Uzbekistan Government itself can solve the current problem.
Emphasis should be put on: the creation of alternative forms of employment in the drought-affected areas to improve the irrigation systems in use in these affected areas and, in general, improve water conservation; the introduction of more drought-resistant and less water-hungry crops through further research into new crops, pilot schemes, model farms and whatever is necessary to farm in a sustainable manner in this environment.
We hope that Tacis can develop activities to address these issues, in particular at regional level, but the challenge is huge relating to our actual means.
Let me turn to East Timor.
The democratic elections on 30 August were a cornerstone in the transition towards independence.
The Commission was pleased to see how peacefully the electoral process took place.
The outcome - with no two-thirds majority for a single party - will require the Constitutional Assembly to work together and to seek a consensus.
In general, I am very pleased with the cooperation with the Parliament and Parliament can be pleased with itself because of its ability to deliver high-quality electoral observation.
This process seems to be well on track.
The emergency phase is over.
The international community has to consider now the long-term development issues.
The Canberra Donors' Meeting last June outlined the current, clearly unsustainable, economic situation and signalled the need for further international assistance.
We need to support the effort of the East Timorese to manage these oil activities better than what we have seen in many other developing countries.
Most likely rural development and public administration will be where we concentrate our activities, suggesting appropriate financial targets for 2002-2006 within these sectors.
As was said in the debate, East Timor will also be able to benefit from the 'Everything But Arms'Initiative, helping it to develop its foreign trade.
The Commission shares the deep concern expressed by Parliament concerning the deterioration of the situation in Colombia, in particular, the continuation of human rights violations.
The Commission is seriously concerned with the situation of the Peace Process in Colombia after the recent events that have taken place and it is waiting for the evaluation of this process announced by President Pastrana.
EUR 10 m are being spent this year.
In addition, the Commission has approved under its human rights budget, four new NGO projects worth over EUR 3 m.
This programme envisages the support of actions and movements already being implemented by civil society at local and regional level.
The Commission sincerely hopes that conditions on the ground will allow an early implementation of this programme.
The Commission will continue encouraging the Colombian Government and all other relevant political forces to remain strongly committed to the peace process in Colombia, especially during this time of unrest.
The debate is closed.
However I thank Mrs Schleicher, Mr Posselt and my other colleagues who have contributed to raising, and now, debating a subject that is forgotten, that of the Southern Caucasus.
I dare to hope that following the tragedy in New York and Washington, some of us have been made more aware of the importance of this area of the world, of the importance of a region that is in fact the doorway to central Asia, now a hostage of the Russian Federation, as is, to a large extent, not only the Southern Caucasus but also the Northern Caucasus, which is in an even more tragic situation, whether Commissioner Nielson likes it or not.
The Northern Caucasus, as we all know, is experiencing the tragedy of Chechnya, a tragedy that is continuing and that sees opposition from the European Union.
The resolution before you contains a number of very specific proposals.
Most importantly, the Commission and the Council have been asked to draw up an overall strategy for this region of the world, a strategy that could reverse the current constant tendency towards the deterioration of the situation.
The reason that living conditions in Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan are so difficult, particularly Armenia and Georgia, is the constant, daily work of the Russian Federation, which the European Union is not acting against in any specific way.
This is so true that even an apparently harmless issue such as the opening of delegations in Bakou and Armenia has not yet been resolved by the Commission.
Either the European Union must understand that this region is strategically important, particularly for its energy supply, and start to discuss and propose a policy, or in a few months' or a few years' time we will witness the birth of the new Balkans, a little further away from us and therefore perhaps a little less uncomfortable than the Balkans of the 1990s.
These countries are part of Europe, they are already members of the Council of Europe, they feel European and in their heart of hearts - they do not dare to ask openly because the Commission and the Council have made it understood that it would not be very appropriate - their ruling classes want to belong to the European Union.
It is quite a small market but, and I repeat this especially for the benefit of the Commission, it is the gateway to central Asia, a strategic region which, as we have seen over the last few weeks, is particularly unstable.
I therefore think that the European Union urgently needs to strongly intervene in this region.
The problems faced by Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan - including the relations between these three states - still give cause for concern.
In the light of the global coalition against terrorism in all its forms which has emerged since the dreadful attacks on the USA on 11 September 2001, there is thus a need to support the states of the Southern Caucasus in their efforts to combat terror and violence which, sadly, are still a feature of daily life in these countries and threaten many people's lives every day.
The region's democratic structures are still quite new and fragile.
The joint motion for a resolution tabled by seven parliamentary groups signals the broad agreement between Members of the European Parliament on this issue.
If I wished to make a point about the resolution, it would be this: the three countries - Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia - perhaps should not always be treated like Siamese triplets: their recent histories differ, their problems differ and their efforts to build a genuinely democratic system differ.
In this context it would, of course, also be necessary to analyse what the West and the major countries have done in such regions and to analyse, for instance, whether the ethnic revolts in Georgia are local or led from outside, and if so by whom.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how far is the European Union going to let the situation in the countries in the Southern Caucasus deteriorate before it finally decides to fully commit itself to the region, in keeping with local and regional expectations?
It would be irresponsible to make these countries, who are struggling to affirm their identity, complete their transition process and establish a real democracy, believe that they can count on the political support of the European Union when the reality is that nothing is actually taking place and secretly it is only the oil and gas in the Caspian sea that are of interest.
Yes, Mr President, yes Commissioner, the European Union has an essential role to play in this region.
My fear is that the events of 11 September will be misused in order to create new spheres of influence, with entire nations and ethnic problems being forgotten or sacrificed to energy supply interests.
I therefore appeal to you, Commissioner, to put President Putin's words to the test.
Since the EU Ministerial Troika's visit to the Southern Caucasus last February the EU has been looking for further ways to support efforts to prevent or resolve conflicts, as well as contributing to rehabilitation.
A Political Directors Troika visit followed in September.
The Commission has participated in the Joint Control Commission for South Ossetia since April 2001 and provides funds for rehabilitation projects.
The EU has raised the issue of developments in the Caucasus in its political dialogue with Russia, supporting all efforts to defuse tensions and resolve conflicts.
Mr Dupuis mentioned the issue of our delegations.
It was not the Commission that wanted to limit the number of our delegations to 120.
Concerning the impact of the work of the support group, we had our last meeting in Russia on 2 August.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, for ten years, a whole world of citizens, politicians and journalists have taken an active interest in, and been horrified by, the fate of Aung San Suu Kyi.
It would be very welcome in a country which, for so many years, has been governed by one of the world' s toughest military juntas.
When the Council meets at the end of this month to discuss Burma, it is important to keep the sanctions in place for the time being and to keep the pressure up so that the dialogue continues, genuine steps towards democracy are taken, human rights are respected and, especially, Aung San Suu Kyi is released and allowed to take her place as the elected leader of the Burmese people.
Mr President, the situation in Burma is disastrous.
Hundreds of thousands of people are living, without any real humanitarian aid, packed into refugee camps in Thailand, China and Bangladesh.
Hundreds of thousands of people have been forced into labour or displaced against their will.
The political system is corrupt and repressive.
The democratic opposition has been suppressed since it was elected on 27 May 1990, and more than 2000 people are in prison.
All these human rights violations are crimes against humanity that need to be stopped and denounced in order to be definitively condemned.
Well, there is TotalFinaElf, also present in Angola, Congo, Chad and Cameroon, and additionally found to be connected with the sinking of the Erika and in the accident in Toulouse.
The European Union should affirm that Aung San Suu Kyi is the only real chance for Burma and must take every possible measure as quickly as is possible to move this military dictatorship towards democratic transition.
If there are still no positive developments by then, the European Union will have to step up its measures and put a freeze on investments, for example, just as the United States has done.
Thus, we still need to see a clear move towards a process of constructive dialogue and achieving respect for internationally accepted standards of human rights.
As regards the situation of the ethnic minorities, the Commission shares the concerns voiced by Members and remains convinced that a lasting political solution in Burma/Myanmar must be based on agreement between the SPDC, the democratically elected "opposition" and representatives of ethnic minorities.
The Commission is currently exploring the possibilities of increasing humanitarian aid to Burma in full compliance with the terms of the EU's Common Position on Burma/Myanmar.
The debate is closed.
However, if a patent is granted to Myriad Genetics, this will create a monopoly situation for one particular company.
Applications from Myriad for patents on the BRCA2 gene are still being processed.
If these patents are awarded, this US company will have a monopoly on the BRCA gene and consequently on the DNA test.
This means that abnormalities in patients from families with a history of breast cancer and ovarian cancer will only be able to be detected with this American test.
If Myriad is going to use a similar system in Europe to the one it uses in the United States, the samples from all future laboratory tests will have to be sent to the United States, which will also be very expensive if the analyses have to be done there.
Today, the European Parliament, through its vote, will decide between the reality and the Directive.
The human body must not be degraded to biological material.
Action is required not only by the European Parliament - we have, I believe, made it quite clear with this resolution that we are not prepared to stand and watch - but also by the Commission and the Member States.
It is not for the Commission, or this House, or the Greens, or Greenpeace to decide how a Directive should be applied; that is the task of the relevant authorities.
Unfortunately, this is not something that can be dealt with at Community level, but is the responsibility of the Member States.
In March 2000 we discussed a patent for the manipulation of human cells and embryos; now we are confronted with a patent on human breast cancer genes.
These patents highlight a technical question deriving from the field of patent law.
The problem resides more in the extent of the protection to be granted to these patents.
The Commission considers there are no imperative reasons why the Commission should raise any objections, as the contested patent does not infringe essential ethical rules and concerns the field of application which can be granted to a patent relating to a DNA sequence.
Nevertheless, the Commission will study the question of the field of protection for inventions relating to gene sequences in depth and will communicate its observations to the Council and Parliament in the reports provided for by Directive 98/44.
Secondly, I would ask the Commission whether it is in fact willing to do anything before 10 October.
I too expect that the Commission will state its position on this issue by 9 October.
I will repeat what I just said: "the Commission considers there are no imperative reasons why it should raise any objections, as the contested patent does not infringe essential ethical rules and concerns the field of application which can be granted to a patent relating to a DNA sequence".
The debate is closed.
The recipients of loans have benefited from the guarantees as they have been granted loans at interest rates which are easier to bear than those that are granted on the basis of the much tougher market conditions.
That is the condition of the guarantee generally in use and the EU has incurred no liability in respect of guarantees in recent years for loans granted in accordance with this condition.
In my capacity as permanent rapporteur for these matters I would, in this connection, like to express my concern that next year the Guarantee Fund will have no margin whatsoever for new and unexpected aid actions.
Next year will be extremely problematic in that sense and the Commission must focus its attention on the problem of the overuse of the Guarantee Fund accordingly.
The situation is further worsened by the Commission' s proposal for deliberation by Parliament regarding loans granted to Russia by the EIB in respect of environmental protection investments in the Baltic Sea basin.
The Council' s decision shows that there are Member States that want to hamper environmental cooperation with Russia.
The way in which some Member States are acting in this connection is a display of ignorance of how the system works.
The proposed increase of the lending mandate and the CEEC envelope by EUR 350 m is in line with the foreseen amount of EIB lending to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The final amount of loans to the country will depend on its absorption potential and on the availability of suitable projects, and could exceed EUR 350 m.
The possibility of hitting or moving the ceiling is there, but it very much depends on the emergence of suitable projects.
The debate is closed.
Allow me first to venture a historical and political look at the relations that some Member States have had with their former colonies, relations that have been marked, in my opinion, by the bond of exclusivity and by supervision, which are pillars of the colonial pact.
We should now break with the past and with the feeling of guilt that goes with it, in order to define a true responsible and equal partnership between the overseas countries and territories, the attached Member States and the European Union.
This challenge is, however, made difficult by the lack of homogeneity among the OCTs and by the structural handicaps that are physically curbing their development: about twenty countries linked with four Member States - The United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark and France -, mostly small and island countries, with the notable exception of Greenland, very remote from the European continent, characterised by an extreme economic and social diversity (the richest are within the Community average, while the poorest are really under-developed), and also by diversity of status in terms of the relations that the overseas countries and territories have forged during their history with their mainland, relations characterised by considerable independence for some and major State supervision for others.
I think it would have been more appropriate to add demographic and social criteria to this, which are a fairer reflection of the vulnerability of these territories.
I will take this opportunity to call again for the creation of a specific development fund for the overseas countries and territories, separate from the European development fund, which I am convinced would be more in keeping with the spirit and the letter of the association.
Finally, from a commercial point of view, I must stress here that the share of overseas countries and territories in trade with the Community is very low, which makes it difficult to understand the Commission' s defensive position.
However, not only out of a concern for coherence, at a time when the Union is completely opening up its markets to the least advanced countries, but also in view of the common history of the OCTs and the European Union, we do not understand why it is refusing them what it is granting to the least advanced countries.
In other words, it is high time that we proved tangibly to these people that they are right in believing in the European Union.
Mr President, I would firstly like to state that I am speaking on behalf of my Mr Fernández Martín, who is not able to attend.
Hence the special merit offered, in my opinion, by the proposed Council Decision and the report which Mr Fruteau has produced in relation to it.
Their inhabitants have European citizenship (French, British, Dutch or Danish, as the case may be) but the territories in which they live do not form part of the European Union itself - in the case of Greenland, for example, its citizens voted in a referendum to leave what we then called the European Communities; in the case of New Caledonia, in accordance with a plan drawn up with the French authorities, they have also begun a procedure which will lead them, in a few years' time, to join the group of ACP countries.
As the rapporteur rightly stresses, the population of the twenty overseas territories hardly exceeds one million inhabitants and three of them, the Dutch Antilles, French Polynesia and New Caledonia, have more than 150 000 inhabitants each, so these three territories alone account for almost half of the total population.
Therefore, when almost three years ago we discussed the report produced at the time by our colleague Blaise Aldo, we wanted to place special emphasis on the development of the PTOMs' trade relations with the ACP countries close to them and in some cases, such as that of the Caribbean, with equally close outermost regions.
However, INTERREG did not meet the expectations raised as a basis for developing these trading relations.
Perhaps this could be attempted again now with INTERREG III, and I agree with the rapporteur that the development of the PTOMs should be promoted through a specific fund to simplify the procedures for linking it to the EDF or to Cotonou - although I know that the Commission has its own opinion in this respect.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to express my great satisfaction at being able to speak for the first time in this House on the issue of the Overseas Countries and Territories.
These twenty territories benefit from a particular association arrangement with the European Union, which, when described in simple terms, is less favourable than the status reserved for the outermost regions, which are integral parts of the Union, but more advantageous than the agreements made with third countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.
As a French overseas member of this Parliament my attention is naturally drawn to the fate of the French territories and administrative authorities concerned, which are, and I am pleased to list them here, New Caledonia, French Polynesia, the French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Wallis and Futuna, Mayotte and Saint-Pierre and Miquelon.
In 1998, imports from OCTs amounted to 0.21 % of Community imports, with exports to OCTs amounting to 0.43 % of Community exports as a whole.
These simple operations only require very low levels of investment, and are therefore in no way a development factor as the Court of Justice in Luxembourg highlighted in its ruling on the "Emesa sugar" case in 1998, as the only interest is providing easy added value for international operators.
The increase in this type of inefficiency is all the more intolerable given that it goes against the interests of the other OCTs, the outermost regions and the ACP countries.
Let me also congratulate the Committee on Development and Cooperation and the rapporteur for a clear and generally balanced analysis of this whole matter, although I need to make some remarks.
The Commission proposal is based on the widest consultation of the parties concerned ever made in this field.
The motion before you today gives a positive assessment of several innovations we have proposed, such as the reinforced partnership procedure, the simplified financial regulations and the new role of civil society.
In my view, other points also deserve to be mentioned, for example the extension of many budget lines, Community programmes and provisions on trade in services to the OCTs.
There is a tendency to neglect the importance, the scope and the opportunities for the OCTs to be able to access as users Community programmes in general.
As to the European Development Fund, it is correct that, in respect of the past, financial aid will no longer be given to three OCTs - Aruba, the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands - because their GNP is now near or even higher than in the Community.
For all the other OCTs, in the future funds will be granted following more objective, transparent and coherent criteria.
This is why we have proposed to keep a reserve not only to cover emergency aid and the kinds of activities that cannot be programmed in advance, but also to grant additional transfers to those territories which use their initial amounts more efficiently.
So this performance criterion is a necessary component and the reason we want to keep a reserve to solve this problem.
Should this situation change, I would be very pleased to reconsider this point.
The Commission also wants to send a strong message to those OCTs defined as tax havens in the OECD analysis.
Parliament's views on this matter have been made very clear to us.
We happen to agree with them but we cannot say one thing in one document and then not apply it in an area like this.
However, in practice this would only be possible when new budget guidelines are agreed in a few years' time.
Unfortunately, excessive expectations in this field have been generated despite our advice.
When the Community has been forced to take corrective measures those expectations have inevitably been disappointed.
But part of the problem and the cases that have dominated this discussion were also the product of deliberate engineering of ways in which to use or misuse the existing system.
The Commission has always supported a liberal trade attitude toward our preferential partners, in particular developing countries.
In other cases, real abuses have been identified and stopped by our anti-fraud departments.
Finally, let me express the hope that very soon we can reach the end of this long phase of transition and uncertainty concerning the future regime.
I definitely hope that Parliament is giving a helping hand by this work of the rapporteur.
The debate is closed.
If you would be so kind, ladies and gentlemen, we will now observe a minute' s silence for the victims. (Parliament observed a minute' s silence while remaining standing) VOTE Mr President, I simply wanted to inform you that we will abstain on paragraphs 5 and 6, as my group believes that since we are anticipating a legislative proposal within a matter of days, we should not make any statements prematurely.
