Subject: Provision of services and freedom of movement for families with children European families are protesting in increasing numbers against the discrimination to which they are subjected in connection with the provision of services and exercising their right to freedom of movement within the EU because they are accompanied by children under the age of 15.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Madam President, it is Council Regulation of 26 October 2004 establishing a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union that provides for the establishment of Frontex and its tasks, structure and the requirements pertaining to its financial administration.
In recent months the Council, for example in its session on 24 July and at the informal ministerial meeting in September, has been paying particular attention to improving operative cooperation between the Member States and Frontex, and, in particular, the situation in the Mediterranean region and Africa.
The Presidency has referred to that, but the specific question I would like to ask is whether you believe that it will be possible to continue the Frontex operation in the Atlantic after 1 January, and whether the Council believes it is worth spending money on resources, on maintaining this Agency, which, I would repeat, has worked, is still working, and is proving to be effective.
An examination of the initiative also forms part of the discussions which the Council working groups are holding on other proposals, such as that for a Framework Decision on taking account of convictions in the Member States of the European Union in the course of new criminal proceedings and that for a Council Framework Decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records between Member States.
We therefore need to look for a way of dealing with the problem which can be applied in all the Member States of the Union. (PT) Madam President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for the information.
Since its author is not present, Question No 4 lapses.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Madam President, Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security represents the Community's current legal framework in the area of civil aviation security.
The Regulation, which was made as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, has been in force since January 2003.
To correct the problems which emerged in the implementation of this Regulation, the Commission put forward a proposal in September 2005 to replace the Regulation with a new one.
In June the European Parliament adopted its position at first reading, which contained 85 amendments.
On the basis of this, the Council achieved political consensus on the proposal on 12 October.
The adopted text is to be formally reinforced as a common position in a future Council session and submitted to the European Parliament, so that consensus can be swiftly reached at second reading.
I would be interested to know what the Presidency of the Council thinks about that idea.
This issue was raised at the round of talks on 19 October in Beijing as part of the EU-China human rights dialogue. (NL) Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, when the freedom of the press is curbed in some poor African country, then the Council is the first to denounce this in the sharpest terms and to threaten sanctions.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Madam President, the Foreign Ministers of the country to hold the presidency and China met at the ASEM Summit in Helsinki on 10 September.
The European Council asked for the necessary measures to be implemented as soon as possible, so that the Agency could be set up and so that it could start operations on 1 January 2007.
At a Council session in early October the Presidency presented a review of the talks that had been held and asked for support for the idea of extending the work of the Agency to areas covered by the third pillar in the Treaty on European Union, but in a more restricted format than in the Commission's original proposal.
There is general consensus that establishing such an agency would create added value for EU policy on human rights and increase its coherence.
The EU is also very worried that Iran has not ended all its uranium enrichment and reprocessing activities, as the IAEA's governing board and the UN Security Council have asked.
The Security Council stated in its Resolution 1696 that it intended to implement relevant measures under Article 41 unless Iran complied with the demand.
The EU's High Representative put forward to Iran on 6 June proposals drawn up by six countries.
In its conclusions in February 2004 the Council repeated that it supported efforts to promote regional cooperation within the framework of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and especially the agreement on establishing a free trade zone in South Asia by the year 2006.
Cooperation between the two was discussed at the Seventh EU-India Summit in Helsinki on 13 October.
Relations between the two countries were discussed at general level at a summit meeting held on 13 October.
This goes back to my original question as to whether the particular issue in relation to Pakistan/India and Kashmir was actually specifically discussed at the EU Summit with India in Helsinki.
In accordance with the principles of the rule of law and good governance, in the Union we have to expect these supervisory bodies also to act in accordance with the regulations, and insist on it. - (LT) Mrs Lehtomäki, I would like to ask whether such camps in fact create a source of restriction for the free movement of persons.
