Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 30 January 2003.
On my own behalf and on behalf of this House, I have already conveyed our deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to his family.
After this latest affront to decency we, in the European Parliament, wish to say today that we stand shoulder to shoulder with the victims, with their families and with those who are combating terrorism in Spain.
If this request is accepted the debate on Iraq could be included on Wednesday from 3 p.m.
The Texas authorities pressed ahead with the scheduled execution, despite the fact that a number of key legal appeals had still to be heard by the Texas Criminal Court of Appeals.
The statement, signed so far by 60 parties from five continents, notes among other things, that: 'aggression against Iraq, which is based on the new US doctrine of pre-emptive strikes, threatens to destabilise the whole region and bring grave consequences for human civilisation as a whole.
We must oppose any form of European support for the war or participation in it.
It is clear that a peaceful outcome to the current crisis is still possible.
There is also a grave responsibility on us all to ensure we demonstrate that international law applies to us all, and not just to Iraq, and to ensure that the United Nations is given its full legitimacy in the current situation.
Mr President, I would like to raise a very serious issue, to talk about a very serious situation, that of Cambodia.
I believe we should support this country if we want to avoid the risk of a counter-revolution.
Mr President, I have just been in Uganda where I was made aware of the terrible tragedy that is being played out in the northern part of the country and that is being totally ignored by the international press.
Approximately 800 000 internally displaced persons are living in wretched conditions in refugee camps.
Whilst we are of course opposed to the death penalty in any country, there is more to this case than that, as the three Mexican citizens were prevented from receiving the help that is lawfully their due, in the shape of consular support from their own government.
I support all those who are eager to work constructively together towards real peace for my homeland.
A change of gear in the European Union's strategy is necessary and urgent.
And I would draw this Parliament's attention, since this is the place where the political notion of Europe must progress, to those who are attacking us by means of internal allies.
And, since we are in the European Union, I draw your attention to the fact that in the Spanish Basque Country, which is the most autonomous of the European Union's autonomous regions, municipal elections are planned in which many citizens cannot participate since they are in danger of being murdered, like Joseba Pagazaurtundua.
I fully agree with Mr Barón Crespo that murder is no solution to political conflict.
Today I would like to sound a contrary note and welcome something that has happened recently in Mozambique.
A journalist, Carlos Cardoso, was murdered there for having blown the whistle on a corrupt group of individuals close to power.
This means that Mozambique, where until recently a war devastated an entire country and threw an entire people into poverty, now has democracy and the rule of law.
Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to something regarding which the Member States here in the European Parliament do not enjoy equal status.
It is important that we do not let this day go by without acknowledging the initiative taken by Germany, France and Belgium in proposing further United Nations intervention in Iraq to consolidate the search for weapons of mass destruction in that country.
The people of Europe recognise that they are protesting not against America, but against President Bush and against war.
It is very important that this day should not go by without our acknowledging this initiative.
Mr President, as part of the mission of the unofficial delegation in Iraq, I was able, along with three other Members, to go to Makhmour in the Northern part of Iraq, which is under Iraqi sovereignty, close to the autonomous Kurdish zone.
Makhmour is a refugee camp for Turkish Kurds, of whom there are around 10 000.
Because of their support for the PKK at the time, they were unable to find refuge in the autonomous zone and, in the event of war, they are likely to be the first victims.
Therefore, Mr President, could you contact the editors concerned in the Independent Newspaper Group and ask them to carry a correction of the remarks you made?
The next item is the Commission statement on the World Economic Forum (Davos) and the World Social Forum (Porto Alegre).
Mr President, the debate you have included on today's agenda concerning the World Economic Forum and the World Social Forum gives me the opportunity to share with you, on behalf of the Commission, a few thoughts on these two events which took place recently in Davos and Porto Alegre respectively.
These two events, however, have many things in common.
Lastly, they are also both products of the globalisation that they feed, even though their views of what globalisation is and should be differ.
We at the Commission therefore feel that it would be a mistake to analyse these two events from the sole point of view of their differences, their opposition, their confrontation.
Therefore, even if the terms used are different, there is, between these two conferences, a certain degree of convergence on the nature of a fair number of problems that affect our world.
I would add that, this year, some people were even warmly welcomed in both fora.
The Davos World Economic Forum clearly continues to attract an international elite, mainly from the world of business, but also from politics, the media, NGOs from now on, universities and religious groups.
In quantitative terms, that represents 2000 participants and this is clearly a great deal less than the 100 000 people present at Porto Alegre, which actually attracted five times as many people as the last time this Forum was held, in 2001.
As political leaders, we cannot fail to take seriously an expression of public opinion on this scale.
This expression, in my opinion, reflects a deep feeling of dispossession felt by a significant number of citizens from every country of the world in the face of the globalisation process.
There is a clear message behind all this movement: the citizens are telling us that they do not want to suffer globalisation.
What is this globalisation of which we have spoken so much again this year at Porto Alegre and at Davos?
The instability and injustice that were condemned both at Davos and Porto Alegre are one of the consequences of the effectiveness of this market capitalism.
However, we must provide a global regulatory framework for it in order to ensure that this development will be fairer and more sustainable than it is at present.
From that point of view, the multilateral negotiation instigated at Doha in November 2001, within the WTO, is in line with this dual objective of opening up the markets, on the one hand, and rules and the integration of the southern countries, on the other, while guaranteeing the latter increased access to the northern countries according to the degree of preferential treatment.
In a way, this global regulation is the synthesis that we are trying to achieve of Porto Alegre and Davos.
We know that, within Parliament itself, the discussions on this subject are sometimes heated.
We must therefore ensure that the multilateral system is developed, reinforced, and built more solidly, so that it allows countries to adapt differently to market capitalism.
I feel that this is the message that has reached us here in Europe this year, from both Porto Alegre and Davos.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the World Economic Forum met in Switzerland and the World Social Forum in Brazil.
The European Parliament's debate today, with its joint discussion, gives a good example, as these two subject areas do not absolutely have to be in contradiction to each other.
We share the belief that globalisation must go hand in hand with great efforts at fighting poverty.
Issues relating to the global social and economic order are matters of European domestic policy in the same way as European policy is part of national domestic policy.
On our continent too, a place must be found for our common objectives in all government programmes and work programmes.
Lisbon and the Internal Market are the tools we need in order to respond to globalisation and to discharge our obligations to the world at large.
The events of recent months are not exactly cause for optimism in this regard.
On the one hand, we see the response of a form of globalisation resulting from deregulated market capitalism, the unilateral leadership of the strongest and the new doctrine of preventive, dissuasive military action and ad hoc coalitions.
On the other hand, we see increasingly large sectors with very opposing ideological positions, but which agree that, in view of the globalised world, the response must be a multilateral policy of democratic rules, global reforms and peace, particularly in view of the threat of terrorism, stating that what we essentially have to do is remove the sources of hate and humiliation in the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in the face of this emergence of a world public opinion demanding reforms of globalisation, we need a realistic vision, broad consensus on reform and concrete and financially viable initiatives.
Europe has a vital interest in this issue.
It must exert a world influence and be fully aware of its global responsibilities.
Through constructive policies in their own countries, in which the environment and freedom of access for everyone to all the basic amenities, such as water and land, have a major part to play, they too can contribute to spreading prosperity on a fair basis.
Mr President, I was able to be in Porto Alegre and can indeed confirm that the large number of participants, the diverse regional nature of these participants and of the organisations they represented and also the richness of the debates and of the proposals and conclusions drafted and adopted in the course of the work undertaken there on the main issues of the day established the World Social Forum as an unparalleled expression of social movements and, in general, of world civil society.
The need to give substance to a new world order of progress and peace, proclaimed by President Lula da Silva in Porto Alegre and also in Davos, was of course the central issue in Porto Alegre and probably represents the greatest challenge we face today.
Nevertheless, coming at a time when absurd US intervention is being planned for Iraq, the World Social Forum was able, clearly and in line with the will of the broad majority of world public opinion, unequivocally to affirm its rejection of such a war.
Porto Alegre was not, therefore, by any stretch of the imagination, merely a critical counterpoint to Davos.
It therefore comes as no surprise that President Lula da Silva's speech in Davos should have caused such ripples.
Mr President, this was the last time the Porto Alegre Social Forum and the World Economic Forum will take place on the same day.
The Porto Alegre Forum took place against a backdrop of active opposition to and protest against the possible war with Iraq, and the Economic Forum in Davos discussed the future of the world in an atmosphere which one very authoritative commentator described as more regrettable than ever.
I feel that, from this point of view, it is extremely significant that dialogue, which has thus far been greatly lacking between these two events, was represented by the presence of the Brazilian President, Mr Lula da Silva, who, in both cases, upheld the need for huge structural reform - the kind of reform that he has undertaken to carry out in his own country - of the world economic system, wholeheartedly condemning the empty principle of free trade at all costs, which only actually applies to the poor countries since the wealthy countries can afford to be protectionist whenever and however they want.
First and foremost, active opposition to the war: four members of the Brazilian Parliament took part in the much-criticised delegation to Iraq, and there was very broad support for the initiatives seeking to instigate parliamentary debates all over the world, in addition to the demonstrations due to take place on 15 February.
On this matter, unlike the situation as regards the question of Iraq, Europe does have some clout, and you, Commissioner Lamy, represent it with great authority.
Mr President, Commissioner, I will not repeat what I have said before on the subject of globalisation and the so-called neoliberalist model.
I believe that, on this matter, Europe must - if everything we are saying is true, if all the attention we are claiming to pay to the countries of the developing world where others are not is genuine - be much more courageous.
I believe first of all that, as long as the crisis in connection with Iraq continues, it is difficult to talk about these two meetings and the globalisation debate as such.
Nonetheless, we can see how it goes in different phases.
What I take to be the message from both Davos and Porto Alegre is that what is now before us is incredibly important and interesting, namely to try more clearly to define the rules and the framework within which we must live for the foreseeable future.
I agree that we can do a lot to make things easier for the poorest countries, especially in the areas of agriculture and textiles.
That is something we must do, too, but, in the case of countries that have almost nothing but raw materials to offer on the market, it is difficult to see their being able in the long term to provide themselves with a stable foundation if we do not, in a quite different way, help them to develop and build up their capacity.
I believe the choice is rather between growth of profit alone and justice, on the one hand, the growth of speculative bubbles, the 'Enron' economy and, on the other, more redistributive growth that takes account of social inclusion: an economy at the service of mankind.
It is a choice between the commodification of all activities, natural resources and genes and, on the other hand, the ideal of access for all people to the world's public goods, to water, health, medicinal products, energy, education and public services.
These concerns expressed at Porto Alegre, to which we should add cancelling the debt, reforming the international institutions and peaceful conflict resolution are effectively, in principle, concerns that the European Union has at heart for promotion on the international stage.
We must therefore consider this movement as supporting us in our endeavours because, just as we cannot change a society at country level without the support of social movements, so we cannot transform globalisation without the support of this global civil society.
It represents great hope because it is not based on people only considering themselves, their own nation, their own ethnic group or their own religious group, but, on the contrary, the establishment of new rules on a global scale.
We still need to be equal to the questions raised by this movement in relation to the European Union.
Thirdly, as regards public services, there is much protest against the privatisation imposed by the IMF in the developing countries.
Commissioner, are you, in order to respond to this global civil society and the hopes of the southern countries, going to change the demands of the European Union so that, in Cancun, we might say that Europe is genuinely on the side of those who want a different kind of globalisation?
The venues for each were also symbolic: the Economic Forum met in the ski resort of Davos, the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, in the midst of a continent in full-blown economic crisis.
It is unfair simply to equate globalisation with an unbridled cross-border capitalism that is to the advantage only of multinationals.
I think that general free trade still always offers the best guarantee of economic growth in all parts of the world, even in the poorest.
It is this unique model of true globalisation that we have to take out into the wider world.
As the European Union, we have an important part to play in this debate.
We must endeavour to bring the speakers at Davos and Porto Alegre together in an attempt to persuade them that liberalising world trade is an equitable way of improving living standards and bringing greater prosperity to the whole world.
Without denying the disastrous effects on the world economy of the militaristic decisions of George Bush, what was at the heart of the proposals made in Porto Alegre against the war and in favour of peace were the serious political and humanitarian issues raised by the United States' aggression.
We have a situation in which ultraliberal capitalism, which can be seen as the domination of globalisation by the most powerful States and the huge multinational corporations, is leading the world towards disaster.
Mr President, we must remember that the governments of the United States and of some Member States of the Union, against the beliefs and wishes of the majority of European citizens, are reaching the point where they are calling into question the model of European political integration that brings with it the awareness of another form of globalisation, which is more human and egalitarian and which demonstrates greater solidarity.
The United States even want to destroy the idea of a constitutional political Europe with an independent role in the world.
The World Parliamentary Forum presented this problem as one of the main concerns of the 'old world' school of thought.
The European Union must attach priority to resolving this problem, which today particularly affects Galicia and other European countries, from the Spanish State to France.
We cannot allow it to be owned and contaminated by a greedy, irresponsible and corrupt form of capitalism that enjoys the complicity of some European States.
I therefore hope that the European States and this Parliament take the decisions that are needed to prevent the destruction of the sea that gives us life and sustains us.
This reconciliation is now to be found in Rio de Janeiro, in Johannesburg, in Lisbon and in Gothenburg.
The last Social Forum, which took place last January, was particularly significant, as has already been said, for the number of participants, around 100 000, who had come from all over the world, it was significant for the around 1 500 NGOs and other civic associations that were present and, above all, for the quality of the speeches.
Incidentally, it was not only the World Social Forum that took place in Porto Alegre: there were also other forums such as the World Forum of Judges, the Local Authorities Forum, the World Education Forum, the World Independent Media Forum, and the World Parliamentary Forum.
This year, the Porto Alegre World Forum was attended by a unique personality, the recently elected President of the Republic of Brazil, Luís Inácio 'Lula' da Silva.
It was not so hard to understand, however: Lula explained to the audience of politicians, businessmen and experts gathered at Davos, and I quote 'that his war was different; it was the fight against hunger and poverty, for access to better education, against diseases and epidemics such as AIDS, not the war against Iraq or to call for higher rates of growth at the expense of unemployment and of greater poverty'.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am delighted to see that you give equal status to Porto Alegre and Davos.
I believe that President Lula has, indeed, taken the right step, because he came to present first to Porto Alegre what he was going to defend in Davos, in other words, the reconstruction of a fairer economic order.
It seems to me, however, that in Cancun, Commissioner, you should help us to defend our idea of globalisation.
It is right that we should concern ourselves with current GATS negotiations, because they represent quite a risk, and it is right that the southern States should know that we support them with regard to each individual's right to food, drinking water and breathable air.
Mr President, Davos and Porto Alegre are in different continents, but in them global problems were dealt with along the same lines.
The average cow in the OECD countries receives two euros every day in state aid, while more than two billion people live on less than two euros a day.
In Russia, for example, conditions for business cannot improve significantly without some fundamental adjustments being made in the implementation of human rights and in the law.
It is therefore in the interest of companies too to be involved in the implementation of human and fundamental rights.
Under this scheme first proposed four years ago at Davos by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, a company commits itself to nine simple basic principles in the area of human rights, labour standards and the environment.
Furthermore, in the EU a framework for the social responsibility of companies has been promoted, but alongside voluntary action we need binding legislation.
We should show up those companies operating in the EU, which either here or elsewhere have contributed directly or indirectly to human and fundamental rights violations, by naming and shaming them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time it was claimed that the movement, which began in Seattle before continuing in both Porto Alegre and Florence, was the expression of an anti-globalisation that was ineffective in the face of the allegedly effective modernism of the world liberal economy, represented by the Davos Economic Forum.
Davos, where the elite were to meet, against Porto Alegre, where popular opinion would meet.
While the Davos Forum seems to be unsure of itself and on the defensive, the global social movement, that of the citizens, meeting in Porto Alegre, does not hesitate to enter into the dysfunctional world of the elite of Davos and the strength of its proposals is based on civil public force.
Mr President, the fact that I was in Porto Alegre and not in Davos is not the only reason why I feel that, of the two fora held at the end of January, the Porto Alegre Forum was certainly the most important.
It is particularly important that the European Parliament should take into consideration what was said at the Forum regarding the forthcoming World Trade Organisation meeting in Cancún.
We know that an agreement on services is planned, but we do not yet know which services will be covered by the agreement and made subject to the rules of free international trade.
Any subjection of such services to market rules would be a breach of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Nice Charter and other formal international treaties.
The Commission must give Parliament prior notice of the list which it intends to propose and uphold in Cancún, so that it can assess it and express the views of the European citizens on these extremely sensitive issues.
From this particular perspective, it is no coincidence that the Porto Alegre Forum was held in Brazil and that President Lula da Silva has now intervened.
Indeed, not only can the European Union become the model for a similar political initiative in Latin America, but its very existence and independent international structure will benefit from a decisive boost in a world in which, thanks, not least, to President Lula da Silva and Latin America, multipolarity is developing, although that multipolarity is currently under great threat from the intention of the United States and some of its most faithful allies to declare war on Iraq unilaterally.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have been in Porto Alegre, the civil alternative to Davos, which was discussed earlier.
During these two minutes, I will just give a couple of examples: in Davos there were references to AIDS, but there was no reference to the need for pharmaceutical laboratories, whose investments in advertising and marketing are double their investments in research, to open up their patents to developing countries.
The protectionism of the rich countries, including the European Union's agricultural policy, has a negative impact on development.
The economic order promoted in Davos must be accompanied by a social and political order such as that called for in Porto Alegre.
The participation of European parliamentarians in Porto Alegre is a good symptom, but the European Union's partnership with citizens' movements must go further.
The first is accepting that sustainability in the economic, social and environmental sense can be a genuine common project, and it is that sustainability that is the real basis for stability and security.
Much clearly remains to be done, and I believe that the consideration of the current geopolitical situation, whether in terms of Iraq or the Middle East, reminds us, if this were necessary, that the objective of a common foreign and security policy - which is inextricably linked to the projects that you would like Europe to implement in the field of globalisation - is still a long way off.
To end this debate, I have received six motions for resolutions presented in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure The next item is the Commission Statement on the 'Authorisation of generic medicines at WTO level'.
As you know, the members of the WTO have not been able to find a solution within the time set, which was the end of 2002, to the problems encountered by developing countries which do not have the capacity to produce medicines, since the debate concerned that exact problem following the agreements signed in Doha.
We are adopting, and that has always been the basis for our position, an approach which, on the one hand, allows reduced-price medicines, including generic medicines, to reach those who need them, and on the other, allows the pharmaceutical industry to continue to invest in research.
We would like to reach a balanced result, first of all because we need to solve what is a substantial, in some cases tragic, social problem in many developing countries, and secondly because this situation clearly weighs heavily on the climate of trust that needs to reign around the table of the WTO in order for progress to be made in the Doha negotiations.
We have therefore worked very hard to try to find a solution that is both legally sound and sustainable, by refusing a moratorium on the regulation of differences of opinion as a solution to this question and rejecting any ideas of derogation from the outset.
We do not feel that either of these two methods fulfils these two conditions of soundness and sustainability.
We therefore cannot accept the current situation which is either failure or half-measures such as the moratorium, even though this half-measure provides a temporary solution.
The Union's position remains the same.
We found that it was reasonable and balanced and that it fulfilled the Doha mandate, and that is why, like the overwhelming majority of the members of the WTO, we were won over by it.
In case of a serious public health problem, and I reiterate the terms of the Doha Declaration, the WTO mechanism allowing generic medicines to be imported can and must be activated.
We are therefore seeking an agreement that can go further, given the scope provided by Doha, including the assumption henceforth recognised by all that diseases such as AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and a whole list of others would be covered as a general principle, and that is why we have suggested involving the WHO, which has undisputed experience in the field of public health.
There must be no misunderstanding on this point.
For any other serious public health problem, in the event of doubt over the basis for the measure, a member of the WTO could request a medical opinion from the World Health Organisation.
This possibility of requesting an opinion should allow the United States to overcome their reticence with regard to the use of the system by developing countries.
Our objective, in placing this proposal on the table at the beginning of January, has been achieved.
Discussions have begun again.
Our proposal acts as a basis for these discussions and we are going to do all we can, as we have over the past few months, to convince the members of the WTO of the need for a compromise that is as close as possible to that of 16 December.
Mr President, thank you, Commissioner Lamy, for your introduction to this important and complicated subject.
It is only just over a week since Parliament, at first reading, voted by a large majority in favour of a new regulation on combating HIV, malaria and tuberculosis in the poor countries of the world.
The debate focused sharply upon the uneven struggle waged in the vast majority of poor countries between, on the one hand, the spread of serious infectious diseases and, on the other hand, access to the resources available both for preventing that spread and for helping people who have been affected and have fallen ill.
A large problem in this connection is the fact that such a small portion of the world's health research is directed precisely at those diseases that strike such a large proportion of the world's population.
The countries most dependent upon these exemption rules in the TRIPS Agreement are now in a position in which they are being discriminated against.
The compromise that Commissioner Lamy is now trying to bring about contains a list.
If we are now nonetheless to be heading towards a compromise, I think that what you have accomplished so far is commendable.
I believe I can guarantee that you have Parliament's unqualified support in your endeavours to achieve a positive outcome, so that action can be taken on this issue too and, above all, so that the whole Doha process can continue.
Because what hopefully will be some form of solution will be in the nature of a compromise, I also think it would be entirely reasonable to establish a deadline, for example a couple of years from now, by which this compromise should have been evaluated so that we can really see if it is operating well and, if it is not, can develop and improve it.
Mr President, this evening we will identify what are probably the two make-or-break issues for the next WTO round in Cancun - TRIPS and public health and agriculture.
Developing countries' perception of our good faith, good will and sincerity towards them will be tested by our attitude to these two issues.
As we know, binding agreement was reached in the form of the Doha Declaration, paragraph 6 of which highlighted the difficult issue of WTO members with insufficient or no manufacturing capacities in the pharmaceutical sector, who could face difficulties in making effective use of compulsory licensing under the TRIPS agreement.
The Council for TRIPS was asked to find an expeditious solution to this problem.
Two deadlines have been missed already, and there is a real risk of deadlock if the efforts which we have channelled through you come to nothing.
Let us welcome your proposal of 7 January.
It is a multilateral solution which enlists a reputable and widely trusted agency, the World Health Organisation.
As you said, the solution must be lasting, fair and legally viable.
We cannot overestimate the importance of finding a solution to this issue.
As such, it is a slap in the face for all developing countries which invested so much hope in the Doha Declaration and in the objectives of the Doha development round.
It is worth making that clear because if you then consider the commercial interests at stake, it becomes even more incomprehensible why the US is single-handedly blocking agreement in this area.
It is all the more frustrating to watch these deadlines being missed - even applying the logic of their own commercial self-interest - as a particular sector in the US blocks progress in this field.
It is also regrettable - as other speakers have said - that the unilateral position of the United States in this regard is having a bearing on one of the most negative aspects of the process of neoliberal globalisation we are suffering, which consists of increasing inequalities and hindering and weakening the situation of the countries with fewest resources.
We therefore have to understand that it is the European Union, which is based on a desire for peace, development and solidarity, which can introduce elements to ensure a rebalance within the context of this neoliberal process of globalisation which is under way in order to provide it with the elements which - as has been said during the previous debate - arose from the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre.
Mr President, I am amazed and saddened that this matter should be back up for discussion.
In November 2001, the developing countries were rejoicing in the Doha Declaration, which authorised them to have recourse to compulsory licences for public health reasons.
There is just one cloud on the horizon: countries with no production capacity must have the medicines they need manufactured in another country and a company may only manufacture a medicine if 51% of its production is intended for the national market.
This problem in paragraph 6 should have been solved before the end of 2002.
The proposals made by the United States or the European Union, which are each more restrictive than the last, have resulted in failure.
Today, the Trips Council is proposing to return to the previous wording allowing recourse to compulsory licences in urgent cases, a solution that proved inapplicable and led to the Doha Declaration.
The objective of paragraph 6 must be to ensure that countries with no production capacity can genuinely use compulsory licences.
On the contrary, however, some proposals create discrimination between first-class countries with a production capacity and second-class countries with no production capacity, which are, in fact, the poorest countries.
Although, in theory, all countries may have recourse to compulsory licences, in practice, the poorest countries will have to fight to have urgent situations recognised, obtain their licence and have their medicines manufactured.
Mr President, the crux of this issue is very simple.
However, people in the developing countries cannot afford to pay the exorbitant prices for the medicines needed to treat sufferers of AIDS and other diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis.
If we are to provide these medicines to those who need them, we have to override the intellectual property rights of companies who have patented the technology to combat these diseases.
The crux of the discussions is the relationship between intellectual property rights and public health issues.
If developing countries can be given the right to distribute these much-needed medicines to their own people on their own licensing terms, then the cost of these medicines will be substantially reduced.
We all recall the much publicised court case brought by 40 pharmaceutical companies against the South African Government on this issue.
Last November, the European Union presented a compromise proposal to the WTO ministerial meeting in Australia to find a solution to this important matter.
I believe it would be helpful for the World Health Organisation to act as arbiter in this, and would like to adduce three reasons for this.
Furthermore, such parallel imports would undermine the quality health system we wish to develop within the European Union.
The relevant authority should draw up a permanent register of generic medicines destined for developing countries to ensure the effectiveness of such controls.
Mr President, in the multilateral spirit of world solidarity and the global coalition against international terrorism immediately post 11 September, we in Europe, under the inspiring leadership of Commissioner Pascal Lamy, have gone all out to build bridges, to win the USA over and to make Doha a successful development round.
That applies to all developing countries and all medicines.
Commissioner Lamy, you have always told us that you are negotiating on behalf of the whole of Europe and that you accept the European Parliament as possessing powers of democratic control and codecision.
Well, this is an important point for the Group of the Party of European Socialists - and, when I listen to my fellow-Members, for many other groups too.
With more than 90% of AIDS patients in developing countries, we want Europe to unambiguously decide which side it is on and to strictly limit itself to a solution in line with the political Doha agreement.
The arrangements made in Doha are crucial for allowing people in developing countries better access to medicines, particularly those for diseases associated with poverty.
My group is of the opinion that Commissioner Lamy has taken some excellent initiatives with a view to making healthcare more easily accessible, including in the poorest countries and specifically in those countries that do not have their own production capacity.
Access to medicines is not only a question of money.
There are two other issues that I would like to raise.
Firstly the infrastructure in the countries concerned, and in this case I am talking about distribution and about which people in those countries get access to these medicines.
In such cases it turns out that the only medicines that are made available are the ones we have exported to these countries at low tariffs or the ones that can be produced there without patents, and even then they are only available to the better-off and not to the poorest population groups for whom we had intended them.
Fortunately, things are progressing at this moment, although diseases are progressing even faster.
It is precisely this race, against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, that we must try to win.
For the first time, however, there is hope that people - even those who are HIV positive - can in fact improve their lives and the quality of their lives if they have access to medicines.
Mr President, the tragedy, as the Commissioner indicated, is that we still have a deadlock over changes that might deliver the real objectives we identified in Doha, which would allow countries - as others have said - to have the manufacturing capacity to export cheaper generic medicines to countries in need.
I fear also that, even if the United States concedes, the reforms will be wrapped up in red tape and have some TRIPS-plus features.
The danger is that this whole issue could drag on until Cancun.
If this were to happen, then the TRIPS issues could then again be used as a bargaining chip in the negotiations on agriculture, services and the new issues.
Mr Rod and Mr Wijkman are therefore right, as are others like Mr Van den Berg, when they say that we would be imposing on the poorest countries conditions which do not apply to industrialised countries or to developing countries with the capacity to produce medicines.
Mr President, I welcome the European Union initiative in January to break the current WTO deadlock on developing countries' access to affordable medicines, particularly those countries which do not have the manufacturing capacity to make generic medicines locally.
Just last month, Commissioner Lamy proposed a pragmatic solution which, in his view, is workable, sustainable and legally secure, because it complies with both the Doha mandate and the compromise text of 16 December 2002 that was discussed within the WTO.
The EU initiative covers the most comprehensive possible list of major infectious diseases but is not restrictive, which was the main problem with the negotiations in 2002.
Commissioner Lamy's list includes: yellow fever, plague, cholera, meningitis, dengue, influenza, hepatitis, polio, typhoid fever, typhus and measles.
The Lamy strategy would save lives, and pharmaceutical companies will not be losing revenue because the people in these countries are too poor to buy the medication as it stands.
The debilitating effect of these diseases affects families, communities and economies throughout the developing world.
This EU initiative should help to improve the standard of living and public health in some, if not all, of the developing world.
However, it is essential that a mechanism is constructed to deal with the other public health issues and potential outbreaks, and not just the diseases listed in the compromise deal.
The list proposed by Commissioner Lamy is not restrictive - WTO members could ask for World Health Organisation guidance for any other serious public health problems which may arise in the future or are not covered by the list as it stands.
It is important to help the developing world to eradicate these diseases without depriving the pharmaceutical industry of the funding it needs for further research in this area.
Achieved in difficult circumstances, the Doha declaration on public health of November 2001 was an important first step towards helping the populations of developing countries and promoting their interests.
I am convinced agreement could be obtained on the basis of the Doha declaration and Article 30 of the ADPIC agreement, and on that basis alone.
It stands alone as a subject in its own right and on the table of the World Trade Organisation.
This all amounts to a major problem for the World Trade Organisation.
On the question of parallel imports raised by several Members, I am sure you will be aware that the Commission has put forward a proposal for the European Union.
Nonetheless, the fact that Council has approved this position will strengthen our own hand considerably at the forthcoming discussions.
As for the figures, they are intended mainly to achieve a reduction in tariffs and a reduction in subsidies.
This is what is at issue in the current phase to be concluded by 31 March.
As regards our trading partners, notably the developing countries, on this occasion we are proposing a quite different and special treatment of the latter.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Communication that the European Commission has just presented to Parliament on the modalities of the agricultural agreement to be negotiated at the forthcoming WTO Round was unanimously approved on 27 January by the General Affairs Council.
I believe this proposal to be balanced and to be in line with the spirit of Article 20 of the Marrakech Agreement and of the Doha Declaration and makes a genuine and generous contribution to those who until now have gained little from almost 50 years of multilateralism in trade - in other words, the world's poorest countries.
This proposal is coherent with current practice in the European Union which, as the Commission states in one of its recent documents, imports more food products than the United States, Japan, Australia, Canada and New Zealand put together.
This is what gives us the moral authority to say that this WTO Round must be the development round.
This is also why we have proposed a food security fund that will enable the poorest countries to implement measures to protect their markets from the subsidised exports of the rich countries, thereby enabling them to develop local production and to fight hunger and poverty.
It is also because of this attitude of openness and support towards the poorest countries that gives us, the European Union, the moral authority, to say that we also have the right to protect our farmers and to preserve our social model.
The European negotiators can therefore only accept a final agreement at the WTO that firstly preserves the European farming model based on farming's contribution to rural land-use planning, to the territory's balance and to the vitality of rural areas, which represent almost 80% of our territory.
I think that the European Union has provided a good example of good, reasonable proposals for these countries that have until now been the most marginal players, the most marginal beneficiaries of the WTO - the poor countries.
I am pleased too that you have defined for us 'modalities', it is a word strange to the English language, but of course, once you come to rules and numbers you are then beginning to be so clear that certain vested interests begin to take fright, so these negotiations will be difficult.
Some of those issues need clarification, and at the same time, the raison d'être of the development round are the needs of agriculture in developing countries where, proportionately, it is of far more importance than it is in the European Union.
It is the principal source of income and employment in developing countries and a major tool in the fight against poverty and indeed in the improvement of food security.
So our aim is multi-faceted, we need a better deal for agriculture in developing countries, but we also need to strengthen targeted support for certain aspects of European agriculture.
We expect to be offering to the developing world a bigger and an earlier reduction in all agricultural tariffs and in getting rid of restrictions of imports from the developing world.
You will need to consider whether the current CAP reform goes far enough.
My group is also of the opinion that the mandate that the Commission has been given is a good one, and that it is quite happy to be publicly associated with it.
We are in favour of the maximum possible reduction trade subsidies that distort trade, and this applies in particular to export subsidies and other similar subsidies imposed by other trade blocs.
We are therefore generally in favour of greater liberalisation of trade in agricultural products.
Elsewhere in the world, farmers have far fewer of these kinds of rules to contend with.
We cannot change everything from one day to the next, and I therefore think that we need to pay great attention to the European agricultural model; this is something that we can certainly defend in an international context.
I can therefore only emphasise the need for the Commission to defend the worldwide recognition of regional products grown in Europe and the ban on their being grown elsewhere under the same name.
Finally, everything but arms: the overwhelming majority of my group supports this, and we must do something for the poorest developing countries.
The great question for our group is that of how the Commission is dealing with the principle of origin, and how, as we intend, we can be sure that products imported by us really do come from the poorest countries.
This is not a new practice, however, since there are precedents in the reform of the CAP of 1992 and in Agenda 2000.
I say this because certain aspects, such as the reduction in internal support, involve the need to adopt very controversial aspects in the proposed regulations on intermediate reform.
With regard to the more specific proposals, I believe that there are some quite positive aspects in relation to the least-developed countries.
Neither can the negotiations be based on world market prices which, although it is true they are linked to the volumes marketed, bear very little relation to production and consumer prices.
We must recognise the right of the less developed countries to protect themselves from these subsidised exports in order to safeguard their fundamental right to food security, to food sovereignty and to the survival of their small-scale and family-run farms.
Finally, given its distorting use by the United States and other countries, I am very pleased with the proposals to eliminate the de minimis clause, to subject export credits and food aid to strict discipline and to protect geographical indications.
Mr President, the WTO negotiations on agriculture, combined with the Commission's proposals for CAP reform, represent fundamental change for European agriculture and the welfare of farm families.
When we see how our competitors behave - especially in the United States' Farm Bill - one has to ask why we in Europe have to lie down on every occasion and roll over.
It is impossible to debate the forthcoming agricultural negotiations at the WTO without putting the matter in the context of the Commission's mid-term review last month.
Decoupling, taken together with the WTO proposals, will cause a reduction in EU production of beef and sheepmeat.
To conclude, I repeat what I said to the Commission last July when the mid-term review proposals were made and again when the legislative proposals were made last month: the combined effects of the prospect of greatly liberalised agricultural trade under the WTO and the Commission proposals for major reform of the common agricultural policy are potentially devastating for European agriculture.
The overwhelming bulk is traded locally or nationally.
For some of the world's population, food is not something that can be taken for granted.
They want to support and protect their agricultural sectors and the development of the countryside in order to offer their rural population some security of existence.
I am therefore pleasantly surprised by the Commission's proposal for a Food Security Box and by the scope that Europe wants to offer these countries to support their own agriculture by means of subsidies.
If other countries agree to this, the result may be an increase in prices on the world market.
As many as 43 countries in Africa are net importers of food.
Further liberalisation without sufficient protection for the European agricultural model will result in a reduction in the number of farmers.
The Commission rightly highlights this in its proposal, along with other forms of agricultural support such as export credits, export guarantees and state trading enterprises.
If we brought this down to 100%, we would free the world market from dumped sugar and milk powder and we would at the same time offer our farmers a better price.
The United States wishes its agriculture to remain strong.
In the proposal on agriculture made by the United States in the context of Doha, significant public support for its agriculture is retained.
It would therefore be both paradoxical and unacceptable for European agriculture to be stranded high and dry at the end of the process.
They have now been submitted to Geneva to be considered, along with the proposals of the other members of the World Trade talks, including the United States, the Cairns Group and the developing countries.
Last December the Commission presented a draft paper which it said is consistent with the EU's negotiating mandate at WTO level, as approved by the Council in 1999.
It is consistent therefore with Agenda 2000, and will not require changes to the common agricultural policy; the EU level of export subsidies and domestic support in the so-called 'yellowbox' are already below the levels of reduction commitments proposed; the market access proposals can also be accommodated without disrupting EU markets; and the EU is already committed to reducing tariffs and quota barriers on imports from the least-developed countries and from all developing countries, as proposed in the paper.
Most Member States question the Commission's approach in making substantial reduction commitment offers at this stage, given that there will be pressure to make further concessions as negotiations proceed.
The Irish also had further concerns in relation to domestic support, the redemption of the 'bluebox' and the exemption from reduction commitments of direct payments which are of vital importance to our farmers.
The retention of export subsidies is also a major issue to us, as a major exporter of agricultural and food products to third countries.
Commissioner Fischler contends that his decoupling proposals will reduce production and therefore increase prices, but this ignores the reality of the Commission's World Trade proposals of a decrease of up to 36% in import tariffs amongst other multilateral issues.
The 36%, 45%, 55% proposals at World Trade talks, together with the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy - which includes proposals for decoupling and modulation - and the uncertain implications of enlargement, have created a climate of serious mistrust in a Commissioner who wants to tear up an existing decision of EU heads of government after only two and a half years of a seven-year agreement.
Mr President, it is clear that there are still major differences of opinion in this Parliament.
We are well aware that in doing so we will have to prevent this support from public grants from being indirectly used as capped subsidies, thus once more resulting in protectionism and products being sold on the world market too cheaply.
In our opinion it is clear that the proposals now being put forward are a good starting point.
At the same time we would like to ask Commissioners Lamy and Fischler to make more than 50% of agricultural products from developing countries tax-free.
Mr President, on 27 January, the Commission stated that the EU's proposal on the WTO negotiations was compatible with our current advocacy of substantial and progressive liberalisation on a fair and even-handed basis.
The right of peoples and countries to feed themselves with local, healthy products should allow them to take protectionist measures when necessary.
We fear that Cancun will be a 'Munich in the sun'.
I am beginning to wonder therefore whether the WTO, like the European Union, is a museum piece.
Commissioner, the subject of this evening's debate is certainly the basis for a tapestry of some of the major themes of world and European politics.
For example, the first theme is without a doubt that world agricultural trade and the talks which are outlining and will define the aspects and modalities thereof represent the point of confrontation between market liberalisation and governments' desires to pursue protectionist agricultural policies which go beyond production itself and affect what are known as non-commercial aspects too, such as environmental protection, food safety, the safeguarding and promotion of quality and the preservation of rural areas.
Thus, the idea which emerges of cutting export subsidies is an idea which is certainly attractive and which I certainly support, but only on condition that other subsidies causing the distortion of the international trade market are also regulated.
The Community policy guidelines in this sector, in addition to seeing the market as a means of economic development, are intended in Europe to ensure consumer protection - consider the recent creation of the European Food Safety Authority.
European farms operating in a globalised context must invest in the quality of their produce to acquire specific market shares which are sensitive to new consumer demands.
In this sense, the possibility of marketing European agrifoods produce at world level must go hand in hand with the economic development of the less wealthy countries, with mutual respect for local agrifoods production in a global context of balanced growth regulated by both the economy and well-defined rules, but, above all, by the clear need for growth which benefits all to the detriment of none.
Mr President, Commissioner, we support and we consider very positive the Commission's efforts to integrate the developing countries and the least developed countries into these negotiations, access without customs duties or quotas for those countries and the creation of a food security box, but we also believe that in some proposals we could have gone further, such as in the proposal relating to the reduction in export refunds, on which I trust we can make progress during the negotiations.
Commissioner, I am concerned, however, that the model of agricultural multifunctionality may be jeopardised.
I must tell you that in the proposal for negotiation multifunctional considerations are mentioned just once when the Commission refers to access to the market for the poorest countries.
But European agricultural multifunctionality no longer plays an important role in this offer for negotiation and the main focus has passed to the decoupling of aid, the principle which the Commission is going to concentrate the negotiation on, in the internal support chapter.
Commissioner, I believe that, if we allow our entire negotiating strategy to rest on the principle of decoupling, we may find ourselves without any room for manoeuvre in terms of guaranteeing elements which are essential to European agriculture, such as the stability of markets, with the maintenance of stable and economically viable prices which allow producers to earn an income.
Mr President, it is abundantly clear that the European Union intends to sacrifice small and medium-sized farmers and support for agriculture at European Union level at the alter of the World Trade Organisation.
The inviolable principle behind all European Union decisions is how best to serve the interests of big business and the multinationals.
The forthcoming reform of the CAP - which is a catastrophic overhaul, not the mid-term review it claims to be - is being carried out in the run up to and under pressure from WTO negotiations.
The proposed WTO agreement speeds up the liberalisation of the international trade in agricultural produce on the pretext that international trade will increase and benefit the developing countries.
The second has to do with the international system of prices and subsidies for agricultural produce and the international system of prices for industrial goods.
The rich countries buy cheap agricultural produce and sell expensive industrial goods, including medicines.
Mr President, the European Union has made clear its commitment to reforming the agricultural trading system - firstly to secure a future for Europe's farmers and, on the other hand, to recognise the need for special treatment for the developing countries.
The balance we seek is to support small farmers - 90% of the farmers in my country, Wales, are small farmers who farm in less favoured areas - and rural development and Pillar II, on the one hand, while also taking account of farmers in the Third World.
It is a very difficult balancing act.
Mr President, Commissioner, what I actually would like to do is to address just a few points, as my colleagues have already had a lot to say.
I believe that the difficulty we have, and that you in the Commission have in particular, is, in essence, the fact that you have to reconcile two different strategies.
On the other hand, there are also many reservations and concerns, with fears that the European Union will end up with the model of what I might summarise in general terms as a sort of 'leisure agriculture', and that we are to some extent losing sight of the need to be flexible enough to be truly competitive and to be able to compete internationally.
While we are on the subject of protecting our farmers, and I mean the farmers of the 25 Member States of the European Union, not just the 15, we need first for the multifunctionality model of European agriculture to be recognised and protected.
Mr President, I think one of the conclusions we can draw from the debate this evening is that this House always has much more to say about agriculture than about access to medicine, Davos or Porto Alegre.
Firstly, at Doha we made a number of commitments on negotiations.
The debate over our position in relation to the World Trade Organisation is quite separate from the internal debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy.
We are not debating the reform of the common agricultural policy in Geneva, Tokyo, Washington, Sydney or Cancun.
If here and now all the contracting parties within the WTO made the type of commitment we have put on the table, we would all have taken a great step forward towards establishing better control measures to support agriculture throughout the world.
They are right in what they say and this is why we have introduced a new measure that has been widely commented upon.
These rules are very restrictive and some of the countries believe they are excessively so.
I would say two lessons have been learnt from this debate.
Mr Franz Fischler and I are certainly willing to do so.
This intervention does not set a precedent since, as you know, if for any reason a Member cannot speak, they can present a written statement not exceeding 200 words once per part-session.
Every day, 40 000 people die from infectious disease.
The situation is therefore serious and urgent.
In response to this situation, on 20 December last, the Northern countries gave in to the diktat by the United States which, in order to protect its pharmaceutical industry, vetoed the agreement on generic medicines.
The European Commission has chosen to give the profits of the pharmaceutical industries precedence over life.
Together with my group, I support the many NGOs that are asking for matters relating to public health to fall outside the scope of the WHO.
