Resettlement of Guantánamo prisoners - Alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners (debate) The next point consists of the Council and Commission statements on the return and resettlement of Guantánamo inmates and the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am certainly aware that the issue of Guantánamo has been a subject of great concern to this Parliament.
I am also aware that this Parliament, through the various resolutions adopted since 2002, has consistently expressed its opinion on that particular problem.
I therefore believe that you have welcomed, as has the Council, President Obama's decision to close Guantánamo within a year.
The Presidency expressed this sentiment through a statement which was issued shortly after President Obama signed the Executive Orders.
Nevertheless, given our shared interest in countering terrorism, and in upholding human rights and the rule of law, ministers at last week's Council discussed ways in which the Member States might be able to offer practical assistance to the US and, in particular, whether they might accept former detainees.
This process has just begun, and the Council will return to this issue once some of these issues have been further clarified.
Mr President, I warmly welcome Mr Vondra and am glad to be able to echo what he has just said, since it is obvious that the Commission has to work closely with the Presidency on this difficult issue.
The Commission has given a very favourable reception to the initiatives taken by President Obama since his inauguration.
We also note with satisfaction other equally important features of the orders signed on 22 January, namely the closure of the secret CIA prisons, the total ban on the use of torture and cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment, and the suspension of trials by military tribunals.
The European Union maintains an active political dialogue with the United States in which, of course, we give priority to the promotion of human rights throughout the world.
We are also active partners with the US in the fight against the terrorist threat, but always in accordance with our human rights obligations.
The detention without trial of prisoners at Guantánamo over several years has played into the hands of the terrorist groups who are trying to radicalise and recruit new members.
The European Union has already shown its opposition to Guantánamo.
In the fight against terrorism, it is important to respect human rights not only as a matter of principle, but also to counter radicalisation around the world.
We believe that the rights conferred under international law to all detainees should be respected.
Except in the case of armed conflict, individuals should not be detained arbitrarily and should have the right to a fair, legal trial.
We have raised these issues in the framework of the political dialogue with the United States.
The European Parliament has played an important role in raising awareness of this issue.
At the last Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers of 26 January, as Mrs Ferrero-Waldner would have reported, there was a brief discussion about Guantánamo.
Several Member States have expressed their desire to establish a common framework for a concerted European Union approach, even though in the first instance, Mr Vondra, it is up to the Member States to decide, on a case-by-case basis, on the response to any requests from the United States.
The principle never changes: we should do whatever is needed to guarantee absolute respect for human rights.
At the same time, we must take all measures to ensure that the European Union's approach complies with our obligations on human rights and our own legislation.
At the next Justice and Home Affairs Council of 26 February, we will call on the Member States to take a concerted approach and we might also use the precedent of the solution used when the Palestinians were brought to Europe in the wake of the events at the Church of the Nativity in 2002.
Mr President, that is what I have to say on my own and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner's behalf.
It concerns the CIA using European countries for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners.
It has to be said that investigations have begun in several Member States.
As for the allegations of secret detentions in Poland, the Commission has written to the Polish authorities several times.
In addition to the requests to the Member States to carry out investigations, one of the practical contributions made by the Commission, following the European Parliament resolution of 2 February 2007, was to clarify the definition of 'state aircraft' and, when I was Commissioner for Transport, I presented a communication on civil and business aviation that clarified matters.
President Obama also ended the use of 'enhanced' interrogation techniques by the CIA.
I think it can also restore a better climate in transatlantic relations and can respond to feelings which were articulated very strongly in this Parliament, as well as among a substantial part of public opinion in Europe.
I am also aware that the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners has been a source of deep concern among many Members of this Parliament.
The position of this Parliament was clearly expressed in your resolution of February 2007.
The Council has also stated repeatedly that the existence of secret detention facilities, where detained persons are kept in a legal vacuum, is not in conformity with international humanitarian and human rights law.
The Council very much welcomes the recent decision by the US President on this issue.
The transatlantic community has been a community of shared values and must remain one if we are to be able to defend our interests in the global world.
There is no doubt that human rights and support for the rule of law in the fight against terrorism belong to this shared heritage.
If these people have been tortured, then they have a right to our sympathy, regardless of the individual accusations made against them.
For example, many of the people who are or were imprisoned in Guantánamo went to training camps for terrorists in Afghanistan after 11 September.
We have not yet gone as far as saying that anyone who has been tortured has a right to be accepted in Europe.
Instead we have weighed this consideration against the need for security in the European Union.
This is because the so-called Western world, which admittedly was provoked in an unprecedented way by the events of 11 September, was, to a certain extent, unable to influence what happened and therefore had to accept the fact that a president of the United States of America disregarded fundamental human rights because he considered this to be an appropriate response to this provocation.
We cannot expect our citizens to accept that this is a security risk.
It is disastrous, because our behaviour is worse than those people who, like Barack Obama, go there and say that despite all the risks that they themselves are taking, despite the opposition among the military, despite the opposition in the USA, because the people there are also saying 'leave them in Guantánamo, do not bring them here, here they represent a bigger risk', who say that despite all this opposition, there is a symbolic power which results from the fact that a new president is returning to a respect for human and fundamental rights, including the rights of those who themselves have not shown any regard for human and fundamental rights.
A failure to help him in this situation would be wrong and would run contrary at least to my group's understanding of the task of the European Union, which is to ensure that the community ruled by law that we have created internally is exported as an aspect of international politics.
For this reason, I believe we can make a greater contribution to the security of the world by closing Guantánamo, by supporting Barack Obama and by playing an active role if the US Administration asks us to do so and if we can work with the government to put in place a process for accepting these people, than if we were to preach a false concept of security which, Mr Nassauer, could only be implemented if the police and the secret service were to do their job.
The axis of evil, regime change, the war on terror: European citizens yearn to see those euphemisms consigned to history, along with the people who invented them.
I welcome the assurance of the Council Presidency today that the US has now disowned all the squalid practices that have tarnished its Government over recent years, including torture in third countries and extraordinary rendition, in order to put an end to the axis of illegality.
However, Europe cannot stand back, shrug its shoulders and say that these things are for America alone to sort out.
Yet, too often, Member States from our Union were complicit in what the Bush Administration did.
So the challenge of Guantánamo, the problem posed by 245 suspects floating outwith the justice system, is not an issue for America alone.
If asked, should not Europe offer those few citizens the rights and freedoms that no other country will?
We were right to do so, but our help may now be sought and we would be wrong to say 'no'.
That is why even President Obama, who is so eager for change, is facing a serious problem in terms of what to do with the people who are currently held in Guantánamo.
I would therefore urge caution when offering advice to the United States and to Member States of the European Union.
This will please Parliament, because we asked back in 2006 for the EU Member States to insist proactively on the resettlement of former inmates, including in the European Union.
Mr President, whilst this is wonderful for Guantánamo Bay, which is a symbol, we should not forget that there are also other prisons we should voice an opinion about.
Bagram, near Kabul, springs to mind, for example, where some 600 to 700 people are being held.
Their fundamental human rights have been disregarded.
It was important that the European Parliament constantly repeated its call for the closure of Guantánamo over a long period.
However, now that a new government has said that it is changing its policy, we Europeans are now starting to cast doubt on what we ourselves have been calling for.
I call on the Member States to state their position clearly, but I also say on behalf of my group that the closure of the prison camp at Guantánamo only represents the first step.
The US military base at Guantánamo must also be removed.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) We probably all feel a strong sense of relief over what has happened in the United States.
The closure of Guantánamo Bay prison, where the rights of defence, as we know them in our western world, were not guaranteed, is a good thing.
A democracy should respect the rule of law at all times and throughout the world, but democracy should also consider resolute ways in which it can protect itself against the religious extremists who wish to destroy our open society.
Well I think we can be asked, but we must have the right to decide whether that risk is acceptable to us or not.
Member States have shown different degrees of willingness to take former inmates.
Therefore I require, and we require, that such decisions are consulted with other EU members. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the closing of Guantánamo allows us to rectify a violation that has shamed international law and, above all, has done no service to the war on terrorism.
Guantánamo is, in part, the consequence of Europe's silence and the collaboration of many of our governments in the system of rendition.
We are talking about responsibilities which were denied when this Parliament investigated the matter, but which have been acknowledged and verified in the past two years.
This is the point, Mr President, and I am about to conclude: in recent years we have shown much good will and much hypocrisy, not least in what the Council has left unsaid during these years.
Two years ago, Parliament addressed 46 recommendations to the Council.
However, I think we will deal with rendition and the collusion by European governments in a second motion for a resolution in two weeks' time.
Firstly, the allegations about 61 released detainees having become involved in terrorism: we have heard from lawyers who know about these things that this is largely baseless.
Lastly, concerning the security issues: we need to discuss those, but credible solutions are being put forward, and we can involve the lawyers in that. (PL) Mr President, after Barack Obama's election as president of the United States of America, and his signature of the document on the forthcoming closure of the Guantánamo detention centre, an unhealthy excitement was felt in this House.
Nonetheless, Member States of the Union and our Parliament, instead of criticising and weakening the front in the war on terror, should cooperate with the United States and take upon themselves part of the responsibility for combating this phenomenon.
However, it is not only the United States of America which has lost credibility as a result of its contempt for human rights in the war against terror.
Our European governments cannot disclaim responsibility, as the Temporary Committee of the European Parliament on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners established in its report in February 2007.
This exposes the double standards of many countries in the European Union, who rightly demand that candidate states uphold human rights, but themselves trample on human rights within the European Union.
The European Union also has the responsibility of playing an active role in the process of finding a joint solution for all the prisoners who are no longer under suspicion and who cannot return to their home countries.
We must not repeat the mistake we made in the case of the German Turk from Bremen, Murat Kurnaz, who wrongly spent four years in Guantánamo Bay.
The new beginning in Washington is an opportunity for us to send a clear signal that human rights must not be eroded in the war against terror. (ES) Mr President, it is my hope and wish that President Obama's statement on the closing of the Guantánamo detention centre will herald a change in US foreign policy.
And they have been accomplices in that policy.
The American people have done so through the polls.
If they are suspected, for example, of having organised the attacks of 11 September, they should have been told seven years ago of the charges they face, had access to lawyers and appeared before the American courts.
If others are considered to be prisoners of war following the Allied intervention in Afghanistan, they should be held in the conditions set out in the law relating to war until hostilities officially end.
If there are detainees who fall into neither of these two categories, then they should be freed and sent home.
I am told that some are potentially dangerous, but if I personally were detained for seven years in complete isolation, whilst I might not have been potentially dangerous to begin with, I would certainly have become potentially dangerous by the end.
We heartily congratulate President Obama on this decision, one that he justified with the need to reinvest the United States with the moral authority which it previously enjoyed in the world.
Let us be clear: the Bush Administration's decision to open the prison at Guantánamo Bay, as well as the 'extraordinary renditions' programme, was a blow to that moral authority.
We must also ask the Member States and European institutions what they have done to implement the recommendations that this Parliament adopted in February 2007 and, where applicable, what explanation they give for not having done so.
Since Mr Fava referred to President Barroso here, I believe that a word of thanks is owed to him because, unlike the Council, which resisted, lied to and hid information from this House, the European Commission behaved loyally and collaborated fully with our investigations. (NL) President Obama has kept his word.
First of all, their status should be identified, and it should be established whether they can all be released without risk.
If this request is made, we will certainly need to react positively on account of considerations of international law, but also on account of the need for the European Union to react in a humanitarian manner in a situation like this. (ES) Mr President, Guantánamo is a problem that was not created by the European Union.
However, we most certainly do have a duty to cooperate in order to put an end to this situation.
This explains why we have this still timid call from members encouraging Member States to receive those innocent detainees who cannot return to their own countries for fear of torture.
I see some changes, certainly in tone, but also considerable continuity with the politics of the 'detested' Bush, given that President Obama has not abandoned the programme of extraordinary renditions and CIA prisons in foreign countries.
Anti-US propaganda, already active in the CIA committee two years ago, has returned in the oral question on CIA flights in Europe.
Now the fact that there is a CIA organisation in a country like Poland should not come as a shock - it would be strange if there were not - but I believe that the signatories to the question are annoyed that this organisation should be secret.
They would always want secret services to act without secrecy, openly, and the CIA aeroplanes to have 'CIA' displayed on their aircraft as if they were British Airways or Air France.
The European Union must collaborate.
This proposal was the only alternative to the war and our governments, including the United States, dropped it. (ES) Mr President, the existence of Guantánamo has, indeed, been made possible by, among other factors, the collusion and complicity of many European countries, Spain included.
We should, therefore, shoulder our responsibilities and not only demand the immediate closure of Guantánamo but also accept some of the prisoners who, unable to return to their own countries or, indeed, stay in the United States, demand that other countries, European countries included, be able to take them.
However, mistakes have been committed and controversial decisions have been made in the name of this desired objective.
As regards Commissioner Barrot's reference to Romania, accusations have been made in the past without any basis.
I also believe that Romania has given adequate replies to the completely baseless accusations which have been levelled. (DE) Mr President, there is no question that the responsibility for Guantánamo lies with the USA.
However, it is an act of solidarity to help and support Barack Obama to return to the rule of international law when he asks us to do so.
However, we also need to consider the people who have spent five or seven years in Guantánamo.
We should think carefully about that. (FI) Mr President, Guantánamo and its secret prisons should never have been established in the first place.
I believe that President Obama's decision is a good one and that it will help to restore the credibility of the United States of America and of the Western world as a whole.
At the same time, we must establish that the prisoners there should not be regarded as peaceful human rights campaigners and that they must be judged on that basis.
We must ensure that the United States of America takes primary responsibility in this case and that it explains why it cannot accept many of these prisoners.
The home countries of these people must also explain why they do not want to accept them or the prisoners must prove that they cannot return to their home countries because they would be exposed to serious persecution.
When all this has taken place, we can begin to consider whether the European Union should accept some of the prisoners.
However, this is only possible once we have investigated in every single case the extent of the risk posed by each person.
Mr President, Portugal urged an EU agreement on resettling persons from Guantánamo, and this is strategic for transatlantic solidarity as well as being a humanitarian gesture towards people cleared of suspicion who endured detention, torture and deprivation of justice.
Will Mr Barroso make public the legal opinion he then asked from his legal adviser, Mr Carlos Blanco de Morais, in order to impose special navigation rules for ships approaching US military vessels carrying prisoners through Portuguese waters? (EL) Mr President, the position of the European Parliament on Guantánamo was set out in a special resolution in 2006.
We want to combat terrorism with all legal means; we do not want to combat terrorism by infringing human rights and international law.
This has been said in this Parliament.
The European Union is involved in that it wants to support and help with the implementation of this correct decision by President Obama.
However, the European Union should do this on one condition: that it does not put the safety of its citizens at risk.
This is a basic requirement and whatever is decided by any Member State should therefore be decided from this point of view. (ES) Mr Romeva, do not be concerned: the Spanish Government will cooperate as it always has done.
May I remind you that, on this matter, the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Miguel Ángel Moratinos, was the first to appear before the investigating committee and was the one who answered all the questions, including your own.
In this Parliament we have, for some time, denounced the torture and inhumane, humiliating treatment being used at the Guantánamo military base in the name of the fight against international terrorism.
We will then have to present a common European response, of which the Spanish government will be part, whilst respecting the international legal framework and assessing, case by case, the legal situation of every citizen, every detainee - his origin, his detention and his situation. (PL) Mr President, the terrorists have declared a cruel, bloody and uncompromising war on our civilisation.
The attack on September 11 demonstrated that terrorists are prepared to use any means whatsoever.
It is right, too, that attention was drawn to detention without trial, and without the right to defence counsel.
The newly elected President of the United States has already issued a regulation banning the use of torture during hearings involving terrorist suspects.
I should also like to draw the attention of the House that on the same island where the Guantánamo detention centre is located, political prisoners are being held in prison conditions that violate every conceivable standard.
These people have been condemned to long years in prison because they dared to oppose the Communist propaganda of the tyrannous Fidel Castro.
The Chechen nation was murdered before our very eyes.
The United States has recognised that the use of torture is inadmissible, as is the existence of secret prisons.
That should put an end to the debate on secret prisons and transit flights. (NL) Mr President, the fight against terrorism must be a joint effort to which all democracies should make a contribution.
This means not just Europe, but also the United States, as well as others.
I value President Obama's decision to close down Guantánamo Bay, but it cannot, and indeed should not, be the case that the problem is, in the first instance, placed at Europe's door.
However, the joint resolution by the two major parties in the European Parliament says nothing about this and, as a result, I am forced to vote against this joint resolution. (PL) Mr President, I am convinced that our deeply humanitarian resolution will help to reduce enmity between Europe and the Islamic world.
I refer to a Polish citizen aged 42 who was kidnapped.
As Europeans, faithful to the values of defending human rights, we have to face up to our responsibilities, our duty to accept these ex-detainees.
Irish Minister for Justice, Dermot Ahern, has made such an acceptance conditional on getting EU approval, but it is not necessary for Ireland to wait for an EU directive to settle Guantánamo detainees.
The Irish Government Ministers for Justice and Foreign Affairs have not been singing from the same hymn sheet on this matter, with Minister Ahern being seemingly unprepared to go as far as Minister Martin regarding detainee settlement.
However, some think that such solidarity should be demonstrated primarily by the countries mentioned before in the press as hosting secret CIA detention centres.
It is an extremely hot potato: after release, 60 Guantánamo prisoners returned to terrorist activity, and therefore each case should be examined individually.
The Socialist Government of Portugal did not collaborate with the Bush Administration: quite the contrary.
The Portuguese Administration - the Portuguese Government - through the initiative of Minister Amado, has right now opened up the possibility and obligation for the European Union and other democratic countries to accept and receive Guantánamo Bay prisoners who have not been charged.
This is what is truly important and this is what must be highlighted as an example for other EU Member States to follow.
I oppose EU Member States entangling themselves in the inevitable legal complications and the burden imposed on our security services of taking non-EU national prisoners previously designated as enemy combatants.
Since the inmates of Guantánamo were captured by the United States, it is America's responsibility to prosecute them in its own courts, or return them to their countries of origin if innocent.
If President Obama is serious about closing Guantánamo, which I welcome, and about protecting America and its allies, this should be his policy. (RO) First and foremost, irrespective of the substance and outcome of the discussions on the CIA prisons, I would like to welcome the concern shown by Members of the European Parliament and by Europe's citizens with regard to the scrupulous respect of human rights, regardless of the context.
I would like to point out this precedent for the way in which accusations have been levelled against Romania, because this can perhaps tarnish the image of other European states too.
I would like to reiterate that it is unacceptable for the names of Member States like Romania to be freely and constantly bandied about in the context of this debate. (DE) Mr President, I would like to agree with all those speakers who want to ensure that Europe does its humanitarian duty by supporting, in particular, those people who have been denounced, despite the fact that no evidence has been found against them.
However, I would like to ask the Member States not to attempt to go it alone and I would like to put particular emphasis on this.
This would allow us to meet the concerns of the new US administration and to live up to our own self-image as a European Union with joint values which oblige us to take joint action. (FI) Mr President, we share a common desire to close the prison camp at Guantánamo, and now we have a splendid opportunity to do so, as the new President of the United States of America has shown he has the same wish.
I should also like to state quite clearly, that even if Portugal or another country consents to take in 20 such prisoners, that does not mean that those people will wish to remain in Portugal or in any other given country.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for this debate.
I believe it was very useful.
Graham Watson spoke of the need to approach this with one voice.
I certainly do not think it should be approached by the Council and the Member States as an issue of horse-trading - not at all.
Therefore, the Council started to discuss this seriously on the second day after President Obama's decision.
This is one level.
Both the Schengen and the Dublin Agreements call for a European approach because the security of all Schengen members will be affected in some way by the decision of the individual Member States.
The meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, which is to take place later this month, will be very useful here.
So that is my summary on Guantánamo, which occupied most of the time.
Even so, I would like to say that, after this long debate, we are at a major turning point.
Europe must then lead the entire international community towards a desire to fight terrorism in the spirit of those self-same fundamental values which gave rise to the fight in the first place.
In the end, it is, of course, up to each Member State to decide if they are willing to receive an ex-detainee from Guantánamo, but the debate has shown that cooperation at a European level is evidently very, very desirable.
With Mr de Kerchove, we are also in the process of writing the study document which will serve as a basis for the discussion to take place at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 26 February.
The motion for a resolution on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for transport and illegal detention of prisoners will be notified later.
The debate is closed.
The vote on Guantánamo will take place on Wednesday, 4 February 2009, while the vote on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for transport and illegal detention of prisoners will take place during the next session.
The decision made by US President, Barack Obama, to close the Guantánamo detention centre is of symbolic significance to the whole democratic world.
Even those suspected of committing serious offences have the right to be judged according to the correct procedure, by an unbiased court, on a clear legal basis, and to receive a punishment commensurate with their crimes.
The speculation mentioning Romania in connection with the CIA's secret prisons is totally unfounded.
This does not mean that decisions and requests freely expressed by individuals, specifically for asylum in Portugal, cannot be considered within a framework of respect for national sovereignty, the Portuguese Constitution and international law, including the right to asylum.
