rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the final evening sitting of this legislative period is devoted to the debate on the Treaty of Lisbon.
We know that many evening sittings have preceded this one in our effort to bring about a Reform Treaty and its ratification in 26 parliaments of the Member States.
We must not count our chickens before they are hatched, but everything would seem to indicate that we will get 27 ratifications.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was therefore right to be optimistic.
The European Council, the Commission and the European Parliament must prepare for the entry into force of the Treaty.
I am very happy that this House has adopted four eminently interesting and important reports - no, five reports, as Mrs Guy-Quint also presented a report on the financial aspects of the Treaty of Lisbon - as a kind of final act of this legislative period.
This debate was even hidden in the evening sitting, when it could quite easily have taken place during the daytime.
It is beneath the dignity of this House to postpone such a debate to the evening sitting.
We have new supervisory powers, new rights to information and new powers of initiative.
Vice-President, I thank you for always standing alongside us.
It is my hope that the final act will be played out with the new Parliament and that we can enter the new legislative period on new, stronger foundations. (Applause) rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Czech Senate is a further important step towards ratification of the Treaty.
The Treaty of Lisbon strengthens and clarifies the institutional balance within the Union.
As a matter of fact, the powers of the Council and Parliament have been formulated identically in the Treaty.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Vice-President, representatives of the Czech Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speakers have said, this is a great moment, not because our reports are being discussed, but because today it has been established that the parliaments of 26 countries have ratified the Treaty of Lisbon, and that a referendum, which has been promised, still has to be carried out in just one country.
That the parliaments of 26 countries have ratified the Treaty of Lisbon shows that it is a parliamentary treaty.
I hope that, after all 26 elected assemblies have made their decision, administrative people do not hold up the democratic process by withholding their signature.
In order to really exercise control over an administrative bureaucracy, national governments, the Commission or the Council apparatus here in Brussels and in Strasbourg, we must establish close cooperation between the European Parliament and national parliaments.
There are many opportunities open to national parliaments through their right of veto.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me this evening to present the report on the financial aspects of the Treaty of Lisbon, which has been ready for some time now in the Committee on Budgets.
This will be the last budgetary report of this parliamentary term and my last parliamentary report.
It was therefore essential for the Committee on Budgets to analyse these modifications and verify that they were the conditions needed for our institution to maintain, even strengthen, its role as a budgetary authority.
Future Members must not be dispossessed of their powers in future budgetary procedures and future negotiations on the multiannual financial framework.
The new budgetary procedure includes real advances and new challenges for Parliament with, firstly, the removal of the distinction between compulsory expenditure and non-compulsory expenditure.
In addition, changes are made to the new multiannual financial framework that strengthen Parliament's role.
Budgetary discipline, therefore, returns in part to Parliament, which can reject the multiannual financial framework.
I realise with regret that neither my Group nor my Party - and here I am choosing my words carefully - was able to support the Citizens' Initiative.
It blocks the progress in Europe that the citizens have insisted on for such a long time and I cannot and will not accept it.
Before the end of my mandate I would like to thank all my fellow Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance who have supported me with my report.
I would like to thank Jo Leinen, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and, in particular, all the coordinators and shadow rapporteurs of these four Groups.
Vice-President, the provision contained in the Treaty of Lisbon concerning the Citizens' Initiative is without doubt a milestone in the European integration process.
This matter will be addressed in a totally new way if, as laid down for the first time in Article 11(4) of the Treaty on European Union (EU Treaty, new version n.v.), citizens are directly involved in the European legislative process.
One million citizens will then have the right to ask the Commission to present a specific draft regulation or directive, which the Council has had since 1957 and the European Parliament since 1993.
In particular, the Commission should endorse the view of Parliament, which reflects the view of a significant number of Member States within the meaning of Article 11(4) of the EU Treaty (n.v.).
This means that the establishment of a minimum number of Member States must ensure that the starting point in the European legislative process is not an issue that reflects the specific interests of a single Member State, but rather one that is consistent with the European general interest.
If EU citizens codetermine the European legislative process and wish to introduce a Citizens' Initiative, fairness essentially requires that the competent EU bodies state as soon as possible and in a binding manner whether the planned initiative fulfils the legal requirements of the Treaty.
Maybe it is because I recognise what my husband would call stubbornness in your insisting on these issues being dealt with in this Parliament that I also feel very much at ease and have established excellent cooperation with all of you.
You have not only been very good collaborators and partners in all of this but also good friends and good sports.
I am, of course, delighted d to be able to take part in this debate tonight on the day when the Czech Republic has completed its parliamentary ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Today's vote brings to 26 the number of Member States whose parliaments have backed the Treaty.
This debate, I think, offers a good opportunity to remind European citizens of the role of the Treaty of Lisbon in delivering a more democratic and coherent European Union.
At a time of economic crisis it is more important than ever to have a Europe that works well, that has the right systems to ensure democracy.
The Treaty would give to the EU's democratic institutions, most obviously this Parliament, the powers they need.
The Irish referendum was a sharp reminder of the need to anchor the case for Europe within the national debate.
That is also why, since the vote, eight more Member States have concluded their parliamentary proceedings, with eight more 'yeses'.
Let me turn to the report of Mrs Kaufmann, which explains clearly how the Citizens' Initiative can bring a new dimension to democracy in the Union.
For example, on the minimum number of Member States, we should also more closely reflect the type of procedure foreseen in the Treaty.
So far, we have received and replied to around 400 opinions, and we have also massively increased the number of direct contacts, with more than 500 meetings between Commissioners and national parliamentary bodies since the Commission came into office.
Taken together, these reports illustrate how the Treaty of Lisbon would deepen European democracy and deliver results to European citizens.
I believe that a document of this kind, translated into the EU's 23 official languages and distributed to the men and women of the 27 Member States, would be a very important document in terms of understanding the importance of the Treaty of Lisbon itself, and also understanding the efforts made and the actions taken by Parliament.
It would also be a deserved tribute to the five rapporteurs, particularly to Mrs Guy-Quint and Mrs Kaufmann, who have told us that they are leaving Parliament but who will be always present in our memories and to whom we will always extend our gratitude.
The current practice of regular political dialogue in plenary and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs must be preserved in the dual function exercised by a single person.
However, it also means that EU institutions, including Parliament, will have to take on greater responsibility.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - (EL) Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade, I should like to point out that the changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon in the area of the common commercial policy contribute overall to the enhancement of its democratic legitimacy, transparency and efficacy of the Union's external action.
However, I should like to highlight the imbalance between the internal and external competence of Parliament, in foro interno and in foro externo, in connection with the common commercial policy, given that the Treaty of Lisbon does not provide Parliament with the right to approve the mandate of the Commission to negotiate a trade agreement.
It is very interesting to note that, in the Treaty of Lisbon, consumer protection has become a cross-sectional task, which naturally gives this area much greater strength.
This area is especially important to the citizens of the European Union, as we can show them on a daily basis what the European Union does for them.
This has sent a clear message that we are for this Europe, a social Europe, a Europe of citizens, which we wish to equip for the future.
A special thanks to you, Mrs Kaufmann, for your very good work in the Convention.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, I would like to introduce a territorial dimension into the discussions on the Treaty of Lisbon.
In connection with this, a survey by Utrecht University has shown that Community bodies annually adopt more than 100 regulations with an immediate impact on local authorities.
Therefore, we should start thinking carefully about the changes that have to be made in order to render the EU's legal foundations comprehensible, firm, and beneficial to all citizens.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, I speak on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
I find myself wondering whether this Parliament still has the right to speak with its citizens, to exchange arguments, to defend the results of its 10 year's work on the constitutional process, or whether with this dialogue we will be accused of the exertion of pressure and blackmail.
Mr President, many Eurosceptics claim that the democratic progress embodied in this treaty is slight and that, in fact, it is a fig leaf for a dark and more sinister Europe hidden behind it.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Petitions. - (ES) Thank you, Mr President, and friend, for those kind words that, obviously, are emotionally affecting at a time when I am in the House for the last time in this term of office, to thank for their collaboration all those with whom I have had the honour of working and, also, to ask forgiveness for any mistakes I may have made.
The issue is this: if the European Parliament is known in many countries, it is through the exercise of the right of petition.
The Treaty of Lisbon, which makes the European Union more democratic and more effective, is bringing in new elements, such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and new instruments, such as the citizens' initiative.
I would like to point out that, for instance, citizens may demand, through a petition, that Parliament request the Commission to take a legislative initiative, so that in the future we might have a European citizens' initiative calling on the Commission to institute a legislative procedure and a petition, on the basis of the right of petition, addressed to the relevant committee of this House, asking the House to approach the Commission to that effect.
I believe that this would also be a tribute to a day like today, which is so important: the Treaty of Lisbon has been ratified by the senate of the Czech Republic, so there is just one step left before this Treaty becomes a reality and, in fact, before this Treaty, which is the heir to the European Constitution, the best text produced by the EU to date, enters into force.
If we succeed in this, all of us who are here - starting with all the members of the Convention who are here tonight - will have made a huge contribution to the usefulness of having been a Member of this Parliament.
The dream of a shared humanity without frontiers is being born right here in this place of representation, where freedom grows stronger and democracy grows wider.
The Enlightenment's visionary idea of a union of peoples gives the first steps within the magic of our rooms and our debates.
The paradigm of cosmopolitanism settles in our institutions and in our decisions and is now drawing a share of the action.
The sublime dignity of man is now the principle that brings together national and international law.
They know that the emancipation of history is only possible through a project of political sharing and global justice.
The dignity of men will cross all cultures, from Goethe to Pessoa, from Bach to Tchaikovsky, from Mohammed to Buddha.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, you said that you would propose to the Conference of Presidents and to the Bureau that we summarise the five reports and the essential explanations in a booklet.
I would recommend that we also include the Corbett/Méndez de Vigo report, which was the basis for our work on the Treaty of Lisbon.
At that time, we had 500 votes in favour, which was a record result.
First, I thank Johannes Voggenhuber, a veritable cornerstone of our work for democracy and civil rights.
Sylvia Kaufmann, who has already been mentioned on a number of occasions, has been particularly effective in expressing her opinion in the face of a great deal of resistance in her political environment.
Carlos Carnero González was always with us.
Assunção Esteves was always very active.
She has done substantial work in the Committee on Budgets and always supported the idea of Parliament being given more responsibilities and more rights.
I believe that, when the Citizens' Initiative is implemented, we will ensure that it remains so.
Thank you, Mr Dehaene.
The Treaty is the logical response to these challenges.
This Treaty is a great constitutional step forward for Europe, and I am proud to have been associated in its drafting.
When something fails, my 15 years of experience tells me that the failure is usually down to governments and not to parliaments.
Now, we are all covered in scars and bedecked with decorations.
I am giving my last speech after 15 years.
I am bound to say - and I think I also speak for the other members of the Convention - that we always felt supported by the approval of the European Parliament.
And we have not yet come to the end of the road.
When we fought for our visions, we were often told in the Convention: 'Ah, you with your comparison to the Philadelphia Convention, Europe needs a major crisis.
But we have it.
No, there are some people here who are absolutely fixated on this Treaty and who want to explain its supposed advantages again and again.
And that is important.
What we need is a new treaty for a new era.
There is a shift in power within this treaty in the direction of the large Member States.
I will make no bones about it: as internationalists we defend the European idea against those who want to make the EU a military power and a purely economic alliance.
The Convention, under the leadership of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, produced something quite different.
The people of Europe did not want this, and the people of France and the Netherlands said 'no'.
Everyone knows that people in the United Kingdom, Denmark and many other countries would have voted 'no' if they had been given the chance.
It is now the case that, when the people of Ireland said 'no' to what we are now calling the Treaty of Lisbon, we have the gall the carry out an investigation into the reason why the people of Ireland voted incorrectly.
I am delighted that my Conservative colleagues will all be leaving the EPP Group shortly - an objective which I have worked towards for 10 years.
We rejected the results of referenda in Denmark on Maastricht, in Ireland on Nice, in France and Holland on the Constitution and now on Lisbon in Ireland again.
Mr Pöttering says that a million Irish voters cannot stand in the way of 450 million Europeans.
So let the 450 million vote on the Treaty.
In Britain, all but eight of our 646 MPs were elected on a commitment to a referendum, yet our discredited Labour Government has scandalously broken its promise.
The Treaty of Lisbon gives the citizens themselves, the ordinary citizens, the same power of political initiative within the European Union as our own Parliament.
Our owninitiative reports allow us to invite the Commission to act, to propose a legal basis to us in order to launch a new policy or to adapt an existing one.
Let us now hope that our political parties compete imaginatively to make the best use of this new right and, above all, beyond the parties, let us hope that civil society takes a hold of it: unions, non-governmental organisations, students - especially those with Erasmus grants - cross-border workers, all the European citizens living in a country other than their own and who find that the laws that we adopt here are, unfortunately, badly applied on the ground.
Once again, unfortunately, there is no European election campaign beginning, but 27 national campaigns based on a European pretext.
The economic area exists, the single currency exists, the single European sky exists, but the single political area has yet to be created.
I believe that, on the contrary, we are offending the citizens by hiding the truth about what Europe really is, and could be, and by refusing a frank and rational dialogue with them.
The written text of a treaty is not enough.
As its legislative functions are limited, this responsibility essentially falls under Article 265 on the failure to act.
Mrs Kaufmann's report is therefore very important, because it constitutes a real opening up towards the citizens.
The greatest weakness that we could show, when faced with a challenge for the Union's future, would be to create a void, a distance between the Union and the citizens.
We have not had the time to finish our work nor to conclude our debate on this issue.
Even so, however, its management is a major challenge for the European institutions, especially for the Commission, with the credibility of this new instrument at stake, for the Member States, which must accept the new practice and provide the infrastructures and, obviously, for the citizens, who must take up this new instrument for the good of direct democracy. (DE) Mr President, Vice-President, President Klaus reacted to today's decision in the Czech Senate, which we sincerely welcome and on which I offer my hearty congratulations, by, amongst other things, claiming that the Treaty of Lisbon was dead, because it had been rejected in the Irish referendum.
Once again, my warmest thanks to the Czech Senate, the Czech Parliament and the Czech Government. (NL) Mr President, Mr Dehaene's report gives me mixed feelings.
In particular, in the last 12 paragraphs, where he discusses external policy, all the institutional uncertainties have been massaged away, although the institutional consequences of this dual role are not entirely known.
However, this does not detract from the fact that it is precisely the uncertain consequences of this Treaty which will prove to be Lisbon's Achilles' heel for the Union's institutional balance, something that the rapporteur has failed to pick up. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, at this session we are doing something described in our country as drawing up the bill in the absence of the innkeeper.
Members of this Parliament should be aware of that and should not withhold this information from citizens.
That is the central message we can give out tonight, whether it is through the Leinen report showing the increased role for this elected Parliament within the institutional system; the Brok report showing the new opportunities for national parliaments to participate; the Dehaene report looking at the extra accountability of the executive branches of the institutions and how we will operate a possible transitional period; the Guy-Quint report showing that there will no longer be parts of the European budget that are ring-fenced from parliamentary control; and of course the Kaufmann report on the citizens' initiative.
Twenty-six ratifications through parliamentary procedures: 26 'yeses' to the Treaty; one 'no'.
It is very easy to block any step forward, any reform of the European instructions.
I think if you look at the history of European integration there have been some 32 (if I remember correctly) referendums in the Member States over the years, with 26 or 27 of them giving a 'yes' result and only a handful giving a 'no' result.
But whenever there has been a 'no' result, it has been impossible to override it without coming back and addressing the concerns that were expressed and asking the country in question whether or not it wished to reconsider; whether or not it wished to change its mind.
I find nothing wrong in democratic terms with that, with building up gradually, step by step, slowly, by means of consensus of all the Member States, this Union that we have worked on over half a century, this Union that we should be proud of, with the fact that we have 27 countries working together in a continent which our history shows has all too often been torn asunder by the national embers that some are seeking to revive. (DA) Mr President, participating in the debate this evening is a somewhat special experience.
We have had our battles along the way, but most of the time we have fought together in the spirit of cooperation which pervades work in the Committee on Budgets.
This evening the outgoing Parliament is handing over to the new Parliament, which will be elected from 4 to 7 June.
If the voters of Ireland vote yes in October and the Treaty of Lisbon comes into force at the end of the year, we will have to act quickly because there are major consequences for Parliament's work; not least in the area of budgets.
You have completed a first class piece of work to hand on to the new members of the European Parliament.
From the point of view of the nation states this is true, but the fact is that nation states are also to be given an opportunity to ensure that the same laws and regulations apply in the remaining 26 Member States.
Today we cannot just stand there and say that a reform process initiated eight years ago is to be stopped without offering any alternatives - that is the true scandal of this debate.
This treaty gives us new objectives.
New legal bases are also important, however.
I believe that the new supervisory powers and procedures will strengthen this Parliament.
I am in favour of this debate being much more intense, because many of us have still not seen what opportunities this new Europe offers. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, as a Memberfrom the Czech Republic, I am delighted that today, as we are discussing the impact of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Czech Senate has approved the Treaty of Lisbon with an huge majority of 54 to 20 votes.
I will now wait to see if a group of senators - some of whom have already announced their intention of doing so - asks the Constitutional Court for another review of the Treaty of Lisbon in relation to our constitution.
However, I think we should also discuss here - and this should be done by Czech deputies and senators as well - the institutional balance in the Czech Republic.
There is much to say to our Eurosceptics on the state of democracy in Europe, on the state of democracy in our country and on the behaviour of the President whom you admire so much. (FI) Mr President, the Treaty of Lisbon will radically reform the budgetary procedure of the European Union.
Now there has to be consensus on each detail, which can mean very intensive negotiations in the Conciliation Committee.
Finally, I wish to thank the rapporteurs, and Mrs Catherine Guy-Quint especially, for their excellent reports and, more generally, for their excellent levels of cooperation over the years.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, thank you for giving my this opportunity to make a few comments rather earlier than anticipated.
It will be an important task for us to give the people of Ireland, in all modesty, an opportunity to take their decision, in sovereignty and freedom - a decision that Ireland has to take in sovereign freedom out of responsibility for the entire continent.
It is entirely appropriate for this House to responsibly and sensibly address the transition for the possible ratification - finally - of the Lisbon Treaty.
Nowhere else in the world outside of Europe do we have 27 sovereign Member States sharing decision-making on a cross-border basis in the common interests of their people.
It needs reform, and indeed the reforms in the Treaty of Lisbon are the reforms on which we can agree at this point in time.
But Europe also needs a new direction.
It is a great honour for me to participate in this Parliament, where we have replaced the force of arms with the force of argument.
But it is also a sign of the strength of the Union that we can survive and allow the peoples of Europe to independently make these decisions.
As a Janus Member - half constitutional, half budgetary - I would like today to speak a little more specifically about Mrs Guy-Quint's report on the new budget system and about the impact that the Treaty of Lisbon will have on this new system.
Henceforth, all spending - the entire budget - will be agreed under the codecision procedure between the Council and Parliament.
The Treaty of Lisbon is the stronger engine which we need to face the crisis.
Therefore I agree with the reports being debated and I agree with my fellow Members, who stress that it is not very democratic if the rock of one referendum can wreck the whole European ship, if one state leader can imagine that he is the only one marching in step and the opinion of the other 26 states is of no consequence.
It would not be appropriate, nor is it intended to anticipate in any way or take for granted the decision of the Irish people in the forthcoming second referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, which was announced only earlier this week by our Taoiseach Brian Cowan TD.
The conclusions of last December's European Council contain a package of measures that arose from research following our referendum last June: measures to respond to the concerns of the Irish 'no' voters as they were outlined by our Taoiseach to the Council meeting last December, along with a road map to enable the Treaty to enter into force by the end of 2009.
The European Parliament's consideration of these issues tonight takes place at a time when my script for tonight said four Member States - Ireland, the Czech Republic, Germany and Poland - had yet to complete their ratification process.
I fully accept that Parliament would wish to examine the issues raised in these papers and these reports in the fullest manner possible, without any interference in or pre-emption of the outstanding ratification procedure.
May I thank you, as this is my last contribution in Parliament, and all the Presidency of Parliament, the Commission, the Czech Presidency and all colleagues for what has been an extremely rewarding 10 years for me as a Member of the European Parliament.
It has been a very interesting debate.
We have had a better discussion since the 'no' vote and I urge them to vote 'yes' for their future, for my children's future and for the future of the European Union. (ET) We remain here this evening - actually it is already night - to discuss the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
By giving their support to the Treaty, the parliaments elected by the peoples of the 26 Member States have done so.
If the Treaty of Lisbon comes into force in all EU Member States it will bring about changes which include an end to the current system of rotating presidencies in the Council.
There have been some honourable and democratic pro-Europeans in this Chamber, but some of the speeches have been filled with such disdain, such arrogance, such contempt for public opinion that, now that the EU and indeed the Member States are beginning to learn about the political value of YouTube, you could do no better than to put the entirety of this debate on YouTube as a party election broadcast for the various 'no' campaigns.
So I do not understand this argument that national parliamentary ratification is somehow undemocratic. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, in Poland probably only 13% of the electorate will vote in the European elections.
That is what the electors think, and that is what many young people in Poland think, people with whom I have talked and who are interested, for example, in the Treaty of Lisbon.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to thank the honourable Members for this interesting debate, which has been partly consensual on a number of issues, partly a repetition of well-known arguments for and against the Treaty, and partly a very interesting debate about what constitutes democracy.
This is the first time I have heard about totalitarian systems that allow referendum after referendum in a number of Member States, and why some referenda results are forgotten or do not count - mainly those that have meant a 'yes'.
As for the Commission, it has always held the opinion that whatever system one chooses - a vote by referendum or through a national parliamentary decision - it is democratically legitimate.
All these things are taken up by these important reports.
That is why we are here and that is how we gain democratic legitimacy - if we show that we can act and that we can act swiftly.
We have to have a more democratic Union which allows citizens to take the initiative.
These reports give us a good grounding and a good platform to reform the way we work.
Thank you very much and thank you also for this being partly a social event, where people are thanking each other for the good cooperation and wishing all those who are leaving good luck.
I guess we will all meet in the election campaign in one way or the other. (Applause) Commissioner, on behalf of Parliament, as it is the last night sitting, please believe me when I say that we have been very aware of the excellence of our reports throughout this parliamentary term.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Vice-President, I thank Mrs Doyle for her contribution from an Irish perspective, which I fully support.
The people of Ireland must decide independently and without external pressure, most likely in October, whether the guarantees to be negotiated at the June Summit will allay their misgivings, their main concerns associated with the treaty, and whether, under these circumstances, they can follow the remaining 26 countries and take the step towards reforming the European Union together with them.
Today parliaments in 26 countries have said 'yes'.
More than 7 800 representatives of the people have found that the Treaty is good and that it represents progress.
Three hundred and fifty representatives of the people in 26 countries have said 'no'.
I hope that the new Parliament will do what is stated in the reports, which is to apply and implement the Treaty.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have indeed had a good debate tonight.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their support.
However, what I wanted to say to all those who have vilified this draft treaty is this: do not confuse democracy with demagogy!
You see, for eight years in this Parliament, throughout Europe, we have been living not through a psychodrama, but through a political tragedy where Europe is floundering, and we can clearly see that we are avoiding the current problems.
The budget, in this respect, is only a tool, but it will enable us to ensure that the institutions can be rebalanced and, through this transparency, we will be able to know the attitude of Parliament, of the Commission and, above all, of the Council.
Written statements (Rule 142) There is only a small step left to be made towards adopting the Treaty of Lisbon which, once it has come into force, will bring the European Union and its 500 million citizens much closer together.
I would first of all like to welcome the vote passed in favour of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Czech Senate, which brings the overall ratification process a step forward.
I would like to make a few comments about the procedure for appointing the European Commission.
Ladies and gentlemen, according to my fellow Member, Elmar Brok, the report on relations with the national parliaments gives an excellent overview of the tasks facing the European Parliament after the final ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon by all Member States.
Strengthening the role of national parliaments in the legislative process of the European Union will not only speed up the transposition of European legislation into national legislation, it will also provide EU citizens with yet another means of participating in government.
The positive results achieved so far based on cooperation in COSAC must be used as a basis for increasing the participation of parliamentarians from all Member States.
I think that it is especially important that we include representatives of the parliaments in the candidate countries for accession to the European Union in this effort as well.
