Meat imports from third countries (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on meat imports from third countries.
In addition, our rules allow us to trace and follow food or feed through all stages of production and distribution from farm to table.
They are so comprehensive that only 12 third countries outside Europe are able to meet all these requirements, and consequently, we only import beef from these few countries.
First, imports of beef are only permitted from third countries or from certain parts of these countries that have been specifically authorised following a Commission inspection to verify the competence of their veterinary authorities and the animal health situation in general.
Consignments of meat destined for the EU market must be certified by an official veterinarian who guarantees that all of the above conditions are fully met.
In 2006, the European Food Safety Authority recognised that these measures are very effective at reducing the risk of FMD entering the EU.
I am sure I do not need to remind you that the FMD outbreak in the UK in 2001 was caused by the illegal introduction of meat - most probably from Asia - and the illegal use of swill feeding.
The Brazilian authorities now also require that bovine animals whose meat is destined for the EU market are individually identified and registered in a database.
From a total number of more than 10 000 holdings eligible for export in November 2007, only 1 708 farms are currently approved.
In any case, the overall findings did not justify any further restriction on imports of beef from Brazil.
We also need to bear in mind that the EU will have to face, from time to time, animal-health or food-safety problems, and we insist that third countries react in a proportionate manner to these problems.
Given that the WTO prevents us from imposing the same standards on imports as we do on European stockbreeders, however, the Commission must, at the very least, guarantee that all meat that crosses Community borders comes from farms that have undergone adequate inspections.
In view of this information, how can it be guaranteed that the 1 500 Brazilian farms do fulfil the agreed requirements?
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, when it comes to the issue of meat imports, we in Europe must nail down the principles which form our policy on this, and have a strong but fair system of regulation.
Currently, the system is operating in a way that is blatantly unfair for both farmers and consumers.
It is unfair for European consumers and it is unfair for producers in Europe, who are having to take on practices which, at the same time, are not being accepted, and are not practised, by producers in Brazil.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her statement, where she outlined that the range of protections and measures are there to ensure that third-country imports are meeting the highest standards possible.
I want to look in particular at the FVO report from Brazil.
Proper traceability systems and designated holdings in Brazil are at the heart of the measures that the EU has requested be put in place to prevent any threat or risk of contaminated meat products being imported into the EU from that country.
My concern, Commissioner, is that the summary of that FVO report stated that all the controls were generally satisfactory.
We need to see a clean bill of health to reassure farmers, taxpayers and consumers that they are protected and that free and fair trade can resume between Brazil and the EU.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I would also like to thank the Commissioner for her very full statement - possibly one of the fullest and most substantive statements we have heard from a Commissioner lately.
Our consumers expect exactly the same standards in all things coming into the European Union.
I accept your point if you are talking about strict disease control, but we are talking about equity and fairness.
Our consumers demand - and our farmers demand and we, frankly, demand - that we have exactly the same standards of traceability across Brazil and across all third countries.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, the first thing I want to make clear here tonight is that this is not about third-country imports.
Before a ban in 2007, 30 000 premises in Brazil exported beef to the EU.
At the start of this issue, the Food and Veterinary Office reported significant problems in Brazil with the certification of farms and traceability of livestock.
It is also widely held that many inspectors have strong connections with, or even own, the farms being granted authority to export beef.
Like many here in this Chamber tonight, Commissioner, I have been a little bit mystified by your acceptance that there is nothing that we can do in relation to the import of meat from Third World countries.
Just earlier in your statement, you said that just as third countries cannot impose standards in the EU, so the EU cannot impose standards on other countries.
And, until we get food and veterinary reports that actually tell us that there is compliance with the regulations that we have looked at, then we should not import beef from those countries.
However, I am putting the next College of Commissioners - both President and members - on notice that I and others in this House will pursue this to the very end, because we have got to persuade and cajole our producers to meet high standards.
We will also face this issue over cereal imports, with tighter pesticide regulations in Europe, and we will face it on animal welfare regulations when we ban caged-egg production in a few years' time and imports of powdered egg from small cages.
She spoke of EU traceability from farm to table, but she also told us that in third countries, the scope of traceability is much more limited.
But my issue is the recent FVO report on beef imports from Brazil.
However, these imply a level of cost which we cannot pass on to our consumers.
If the answer is 'yes', then this means that consumer protection is regarded as a coherent whole.
If traceability is so important for consumer protection, then it must also apply to imports.
If we cannot ensure that this is the case, then it is unfair to our farmers to demand it of them.
Only this week we see that this Parliament will be entertaining the vegetarian lobby, claiming that meat eaters and, by association, farmers, are climate criminals.
It is absolutely vital that we support them, not by protectionism, but by making sure that all exports to the EU match their high standards.
Yet we wish to guarantee consumption conditions and the health of our consumers.
Although we have product traceability conditions which help to raise standards internally for our consumers, I believe it is important to maintain these standards both for our producers internally and for imports from abroad. (NL) Commissioner, as the last speaker on the official speakers' list, I will try to sum up this debate.
Thank God, because, in my country alone, 285 animals have had to be destroyed, as a result of 26 cases of foot-and-mouth.
However, Commissioner, the next Commission will also be judged on whether we have been able to market products derived from these vaccinated animals within the European Union. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's agricultural experts have made a quite simple demand.
They are asking for no more and no less than the same conditions for production at home, that is within the European Union, as for imports.
These two debates are linked.
This concerns not only animal health and food safety, but also environmental standards, production and animal welfare.
It is in all our interests to ensure that our consumers are protected, that European agricultural products are competitive and, therefore, that the agricultural industry itself is competitive.
For this reason, I feel that it is essential and that it is one of our responsibilities as Members of the European Parliament to speed up this debate and to ensure that the related political framework is in place. (RO) Madam President, Commissioner, as you are very well aware, Romania is not entitled to sell pork and pork products on the European market, in return for which we have been given the right, from next year, to import pork from other Member States and export it afterwards in processed form.
Our market access conditions are important conditions because they affect food and they affect the health of our residents.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, may I remind the honourable Members that what I said was not that we cannot impose rules on third countries.
I must remind you that at the same time as we are importers of meat from third countries - and at this point we import from Brazil only 5% of our requirements for beef in the European Union - we are also big exporters to third countries: to Russia and elsewhere.
There are rules of international trade, and we apply equivalent, but not identical, rules provided that we are satisfied that they are strict enough to protect our consumers.
The reason why we applied the safety rules in the case of Brazil is precisely because our FVO missions have shown us that something was going wrong.
Regarding the last mission to Brazil, there were indeed problems, but I challenge you to look at all the reports of our FVO missions to any of the Member States and make a comparison.
That is also what we have asked Brazil to do.
I must also assure you that we are playing a very fair game for our farmers and producers vis-à-vis third countries.
You can also be assured that our FVO missions to third countries will be very strict.
Whether more farms are put on the list or not depends entirely on the Brazilian authorities, and on whether they are prepared to spend the money that they have to spend in order to have their farms approved in accordance with our standards and to be able to export.
The health of European consumers must not be endangered by products which are not of the appropriate quality and are unsafe.
This is why the European Commission and Member States must ensure that identical conditions apply to meat products produced within the EU and originating from third countries.
Very often, however, products coming from third countries do not meet these food safety standards.
The subject we are discussing has another aspect.
