Non-proliferation and the future of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Beer, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which contains: a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on non-proliferation and the future of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
We have heard similar words in recent years, for example from US strategists Kissinger and Sam Nunn, who have set out a specific path to a world without nuclear weapons.
Negotiations at the NPT Review Conference in 2005 were a disaster.
I know that the NPT also comprises civil elements, but we are not talking today about the renaissance of civil nuclear power; we are talking about nuclear disarmament.
That is why I should like to urge you once again in all earnestness, as instructed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, not to confuse the question of the civil use of nuclear power with a revival of the potential for nuclear disarmament.
I would especially like to thank the European Parliament for the interest it has shown in this question and Angelika Beer for her work as rapporteur in drawing up this interesting report.
The forthcoming May meeting of the Non-Proliferation Treaty preparatory committee is an important preparatory step for this conference.
The EU is also observing with interest the renewed public debate on how to achieve the objectives outlined in the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
As the report states, in addition to the issue of non-proliferation we must also focus on the issue of nuclear disarmament.
The EU is fully intent on promoting nuclear disarmament and thus achieving the objectives of Article 6 of the NPT.
The EU is prepared to strengthen international cooperation in this area both in the context of the next NPT Review Conference and also in other forums.
We are working for a successful conference to be held under Article 14 of the treaty in New York in September 2009 in order to support the treaty coming into force.
Generally speaking, this new opportunity may play a significant role in moving the NPT review process in the right direction.
This policy will be put forward in the middle of this year, with recommendations on further strengthening a culture of safety and security among the 27 Member States.
The international fuel bank of IAEA, to which the Commission plans to contribute EUR 20 million, is a step in the right direction, provided we can explain the rationale that supports such a programme.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (CS) The name of US President Obama will be on everyone's lips today, particularly in connection with his speech in Prague on 5 April.
This involves strengthening all three closely linked pillars of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, in other words nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and peaceful cooperation in the area of nuclear technology.
However, in talks with the new US administration we are facing an important and at the same time difficult task.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Beer on an excellent and timely report.
In connection with this, nuclear disarmament, for which of course we should strive, cannot be a rapid process, and President Obama understands this very well.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to finally put an end to nuclear weapons on this planet and to implement the disarmament obligation in the Non-Proliferation Treaty, especially Article 6.
The new US President, Barack Obama, has stated that he wants nuclear disarmament.
What we need is stronger disarmament components in the NPT and that is what we should vote for tomorrow. (NL) The Beer report speaks in very general terms, which is somewhat understandable because the Non-Proliferation Treaty is meaningless if it is not respected and implemented by all states.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for an excellent discussion.
As I said at the beginning of the debate, a turning point has come in the history of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the arms control process.
At the New York preparatory meeting in May the EU will set out concrete proposals concerning a future action plan for the review conference in 2010 within the framework of all three pillars of the Treaty.
I look forward to continued cooperation with Parliament in taking these objectives further and I count on our cooperation in the future.
The vote will take place on Friday 24 April 2009.
