Fishing activities of Community and third-country fishing vessels (debate) The next item is the report by Philippe Morillon, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation concerning authorisations for fishing activities of Community fishing vessels outside Community waters and the access of third country vessels to Community waters - C6-0236/2007 -.
Since the adoption of the Council Regulation on fisheries outside community waters in 1994, many conditions have changed and international obligations have increased for the authorisation of Community vessels outside Community waters.
This will, in most cases, ensure that Community vessels can continue their fishing activities in third-country waters without interruption.
The Commission can agree to Amendments 1, 3, 5, 11 and 16.
As for Amendments 7 to 9 concerning the eligibility criteria, this list has been transformed into a positive list, rather than a negative one, in the first Presidency compromise text.
The Commission also finds that the Member States' possibility of giving their opinion on any decision is already provided for in Article 9(2) and that any informal procedure prior to or after a negotiation should not be contained in this regulation.
This is why the Commission cannot accept Amendments 13, 14, 15 and 17.
Equally, I cannot accept Amendments 20 to 24, since the scope of the proposal is to cover all agreements and not just third-country agreements, as I said at the outset.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, nothing surprises me, and in particular nothing surprised me in the Commissioner's communication.
However, I would like, in passing, to thank her for her work and I will leave it to her, when she presents her amendments, to give us the reasons for her decision.
These were adopted by a large majority of 19 votes for, 5 against and 2 abstentions.
Sixthly and finally, Community fishing vessels for which a fishing authorisation has been issued shall transmit to their competent national authority the data concerning their catches and fishing effort with a frequency appropriate to the agreement and fishery concerned.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, I am glad to have the opportunity to speak on the Morillon report on fishing authorisations - or I should say the ex-Stihler report.
The report was supposed to simplify fishing authorisations.
The next review of the common fisheries policy is due by 2012 and this report is a wake-up call that historic fishing rights are under threat in the North and Baltic Seas.
While few in this Parliament would argue with any proposal that seeks to enhance fisheries compliance, it is of major concern to me that Article 13 of the report, which deals with under-utilisation of fisheries opportunities, will simply provide the Commission with the right to reallocate fishing opportunities from one Member State to another.
In fact, Article 13 is something of a Trojan horse, as it seems to have more to do with gaining access to fishing opportunities previously allocated to other Member States than with reducing bureaucracy and red tape and improving compliance, which I thought the report was all about.
I very much hope - contrary to what Commissioner Borg told us in his earlier remarks - that tomorrow Parliament will vote in favour of Amendments 20, 21, 22 and 23, tabled by Ms Stihler and signed by 40 MEPs. (ES) Thank you, Madam President.
So far you have only experienced the situation in the North and we have experienced the situation in the South.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 April 2008.
