The methods and means used in armed conflicts, for example, make the work of humanitarian organisations more and more complicated.
The risks of attacks and pillaging of aid are also unfortunate daily realities, be they in Darfur or Somalia, Sri Lanka or Myanmar, Colombia or eastern DRC.
I firmly believe that the European Union, as the largest global donor - I think it is important to reiterate that together we account for 40% of global humanitarian aid - but also as a political pillar of international law and multilateralism has, as far as I am concerned, a particular responsibility to ensure effective and adequate humanitarian aid.
You can therefore imagine the extent to which we are in fact moving further and further away from it, in some way without any reaction, or moving further and further away from the most basic standards in this respect.
We are now reaching the final stages of this trilateral procedure, which should enable us to fulfil the ambition of having all three institutions sign a joint declaration on 18 December.
Following Parliament's suggestion, we highlighted in the draft text of the consensus the commitments made in this respect by countries within the framework of the UN and the international community.
I will not reject anything out of hand, but I will say, however, that we should reject any interference by a sector that does not have a humanitarian purpose.
This debate will continue, but I feel that it is more and more common to see in the humanitarian field sectors or logistics - corpora - that can undeniably cause confusion.
In conclusion, Mr President, Mr Cornillet, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with the European Community's considerable contribution to the humanitarian effort and in particular I pay tribute to all the men and women who work on the ground in very difficult circumstances to provide humanitarian aid to those who need it.
For example, in Colombia there are almost as many displaced people as there are in Darfur, and that is something that warrants our attention.
The consensus defines these principles for action, on which our institution's humanitarian action is based.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs supports Commissioner Michel's proposal for an interinstitutional declaration on the European Consensus on Humanitarian Aid, but the individual governments of the 27 Member States are still pursuing national policy goals on humanitarian aid, which sometimes differ substantially from Europe's goals.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomed the communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union entitled 'Towards a European Consensus on Humanitarian Aid'.
We should bear in mind that the European Union is the largest donor of humanitarian aid in the world.
I believe that Mr Cornillet, the rapporteur, has provided an excellent analysis of the complex and complicated context in which humanitarian aid has been granted over the last 15 years.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur that complementarity, coherence, effectiveness and coordination of humanitarian aid at technical and political level between the 25 Member States of the Union is essential.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank our colleague Mr Cornillet for his work on this report and for the debates he led in our Committee on Development.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for his pertinent analysis at the beginning of this debate.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first I would like to refer to paragraph 21 of Mr Cornillet's report, which considers that the consensus should recognise and further define the different roles, mandates and comparative advantages of the various humanitarian actors.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the conviction that it is a moral obligation to provide humanitarian aid to the victims of crisis situations is currently widespread amongst European societies.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, in recent years there have been many humanitarian crises and as many emergency aid programmes.
The need for this type of aid is not diminishing; on the contrary, natural disasters are growing in number and scope.
Mr President, firstly I would like to add my congratulations to our rapporteur, Mr Cornillet, for his hard and valuable work on this very complex issue.
I would also like to welcome Commissioner Michel and to underline his call for good cooperation with our Committee on Development.
First, in certain cases it is, in my opinion, reasonable to be able to use military action to protect humanitarian efforts.
Eritrea should know that the willingness to provide aid can disappear if democratic principles are abused as flagrantly as they are in Eritrea today. (CS) Commissioner Michel and Mr Cornillet, thank you for your work.
As regards the CERF, I completely agree - and I have said this on several occasions to the United Nations, to OCHA, to everyone, and you know my position on it - ECHO will not contribute to the CERF unless additional funds are available.
Secondly, in reality ECHO is a European CERF.
ECHO is just as flexible - I dream of having the same flexibility in the development sector - and perhaps even more flexible than the CERF.
As far as the new Member States are concerned, I am very pleased to note that there is high degree of willingness, especially among some of them - and the Czech Republic comes to mind in particular - to demonstrate international solidarity through greater humanitarian aid in the future.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - I welcome this initiative by the institutions to establish an EU Consensus on Humanitarian Aid.
The distinction between civilian and military actors is a concern for many working in the humanitarian field.
