According to the available data, 70% of revenue comes from cross-border tourism in the European Union, in other words, from tourists from other EU Member States.
The conference brought together 500 leading specialists from all over Europe and I did not have the impression from that conference that the European tourism industry or, indeed, the Member States are worried about Europe losing its lustre as a tourist destination.
This has forced more than 300 000 refugees to leave the islands.
As far as the political situation in the Maldives is concerned, and in line with the statement by the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the Commission welcomes the recent political developments in the Maldives and is pleased with the reforms that have been introduced to date.
The publication of the roadmap for the reform programme in 2006 was indeed good news.
The Commission has been satisfied with the recent improvements, including the release last year of two important activists: Jennifer Latheef and Mohammed Nasheed. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to thank you for your reply.
In the course of recent years the number of people living in towns and cities has increased considerably.
Its urban population has tripled over the last 25 years and is set to double again by 2030.
The Commission supports durable urban development through good governance and good urban management.
The Commission's urban strategy seeks to help those living in shantytowns by way of a series of programmes that are implemented in the various geographical areas covered by our development programmes.
The aim of the Cities Alliance is to enhance the impact and the effectiveness of cooperation on urban development by improving the living conditions of the urban poor and developing programmes for improving the shantytowns to urban and national standards.
Some 175 projects have been implemented on the basis of a Commission allocation of EUR 416 million for all the ACP regions concerned.
Out of this total there have been 38 projects for actions in urban areas and 29 for actions in semi-urban areas.
In this connection, and this is something that I particularly wanted to talk about, there is also the serious problem of land use planning in the developing nations, and this issue should provide us with a new central theme for our development policy.
Commissioner, in that lengthy answer, I am not sure I heard you once mention the words 'rural', 'agriculture' or 'the need for investment', because the problem with slums is that 900 million people are rushing to them for a better life, because there is nothing better in the rural areas.
We are therefore working on all these issues and I share your viewpoint even though I have not touched on that particular question.
We are therefore working on this.
In some regions we are funding employment-intensive work programmes, especially in post-conflict countries such as Rwanda, Burundi and the DRC.
Secondly, I shall take advantage of your question to point out again - you may like it or you may not, you may have an opinion or not, but as this is an open debate I am going to say it anyway - that what the Commission is trying to do at present by way of the economic partnership agreements that we are currently attempting to conclude with various regions in the developing world is essentially aimed at generating a certain dynamic process and developing a private sector that will be capable of supporting employment, creating wealth and prosperity and, especially, ensuring that the developing countries are gradually able to open up their markets in order to take advantage of the most positive effects - and I know only too well that there are not just positive effects - of globalisation.
When you realise that a 1% increase in trade in Africa is equivalent to two and a half times the entire amount of public aid allocated to development in that continent then you will understand that there will never be sustainable development in the poorest nations unless their economy is more prosperous.
We are in fact funding employment schemes and labour-intensive projects.
We know that there is a common European driving licence coming in 2013, so I would like to ask the Commissioner whether there is any prospect that this common European driving licence could in fact be front-loaded and be brought on more quickly.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) I am not opposed to the European Union making a contribution and providing aid.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) I agree, I agree.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission welcomes the meeting of the two leaders on 5 September this year and the agreement on the need for the earliest start of the process leading to a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem.
The agreement of 8 July 2006 between the leaders of the two communities on the island should prepare the ground for such talks as a means of facilitating the full resumption of these talks for a comprehensive settlement.
Member of the Commission. - I want to thank the honourable Member for this proposal.
Subject: EU administration in Kosovo What is the Commission's assessment of the progress made in preparing for the setting-up of an EU administration in Kosovo next year and the likelihood of the status issue being clarified by 10 December 2007?
Member of the Commission. - The European Union is preparing to assume a greater role in post-status Kosovo.
I would like to know whether the Commission endorses this position.
Do we have any way out of that situation or any alternative strategies if there is in fact no agreement on 10 December?
Member of the Commission. - We are, indeed, working very seriously and very hard to facilitate a negotiated settlement solution.
We support Ambassador Wolfgang Ischinger, who is in charge of steering the work of the Troika as the European Union representative.
As you may recall, the talks began on 3 October 2005 or, to be precise, 4 October, because it was late at night or early in the morning, depending on the definition in Luxembourg.
This mainly concerns those chapters where opening benchmarks have been set.
I would therefore ask the Commission to redouble its efforts in favour of Croatia so that it can join the EU in 2009.
Member of the Commission. - I agree that there is a need for further action in the first place by Croatia.
Member of the Commission. - I think that using common sense, which is also allowed for a Commissioner, your question makes plenty of sense.
Croatia will be a member of the European Union in a few years and, therefore, for this period up to the time when Croatia is able to join the Schengen arrangement, as a member of the European Union, we will have the arrangement to which the honourable Member referred.
As stated in our communication on a European strategy on the rights of the child, a basis in the Treaties is required for action in a specific policy area to safeguard children's rights, and in the immigration field no such specific base exists.
However, as regards substance, a common standard already exists - at least a minimum standard - as all Member States are bound by international human rights conventions.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) I think that you are right.
Vice-President of the Commission. - As the honourable Member knows, the Portuguese Presidency included the topic of new technologies and integrated border management for discussion at the informal Council of Interior Ministers on 1 October.
The Presidency presented ideas in relation to increasing security as well as in relation to facilitating travel.
This communication on the entry-exit system, which I will present in February, will be part of a borders package, which will also include the evaluation report on Frontex, as requested by the Hague Programme, and a communication on a European surveillance system (EUROSUR).
Subject: Provisions in the new treaty on the supply of personal data of EU citizens to third countries Elmar Brok, MEP, a member of the European Parliament's delegation to the Intergovernmental Conference, has complained that members of the Council have agreed to include a provision in the new treaty permitting the personal data of EU citizens to be passed on to third countries.
Article 24 refers to the application of this general right and the processing of data in the common foreign and security policy area.
This means that the transfer of personal data to third countries is based on the general principles or relevant provisions of Directive 95/46/EC on personal data, particularly Articles 25 and 26.
According to Article 25 of this particular directive, transfer of personal data is permitted only if the third country ensures an adequate level of protection.
Article 26 of the same directive provides for the strict and explicit conditions under which it is possible to transfer personal data to third countries in other cases.
The framework decision on data protection in the field of judicial and police cooperation will also be another very helpful instrument.
The promise is to adopt, in agreement with Parliament, a framework decision on personal data protection by December.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, the overall intention is to guarantee the right to personal data protection.
Vice-President of the Commission. - As you know perfectly well, I have tried to undertake in the past personal initiatives under a political point of view, even though in some cases I was not formally authorised by the Council to do that.
