We have seen expenditure cut by 38%, and, even though in the last framework plan there was a substantial increase from EUR&#160;140&#160;million per year to EUR&#160;600&#160;million, this figure still falls short of what we would have wanted, especially given the EU’s dynamism in this area.
We are still in a great position in the area of fundamental research and publication – the EU is ahead of the United States in the field.
US federal expenditure is approximately equivalent to that of the whole of the EU in the area of nanotechnologies and nanosciences, and the individual Member States have unequal spending levels.
We cannot move forward without such change, because public opinion in the EU is often not in favour of these technologies.
Some safety issues are of course exaggerated, for example, some proposed amendments tabled to this report by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
They have major implications in the field of energy, for example, in terms of the possibilities of new lighter, more reliable and more robust materials.
It not only offers new solutions to many current problems, but also opens up new innovation opportunities, boosting the economy and creating jobs.
Nanotechnology is already making a difference in many areas.
European industry should now reap the benefits of that knowledge through innovative products and processes.
The Commission is also looking at the European legislation applicable to nanotechnology.
I am very happy to note that the European Parliament, through the report of Mr Ransdorf, fully recognises the important role to be played by nanosciences and nanotechnologies and welcomes the Commission’s action plan.
However, Europe has been slow to realise this potential and thus holds a small market share in research and development and education and, as a result, industrial innovation in this field.
It is imperative that the EU adopt this plan to support nanoscience development, education and vocation within the Member States.
With regard to the report, I should like to highlight a few goals that have been incorporated and identify an important point that unfortunately has not been addressed adequately.
In addition, I support the Commission’s proposal to respond to the dynamic nature needed for proper regulation in this field.
Secondly, the proposal has a strong emphasis on patents.
Reform, as well as global incorporation of the patent system for nanoscience and nanotechnology within the Member States, is crucial to Europe’s success in this field.
Nanosciences and nanotechnologies are very important for the future of the economy and society.
It is a very exciting technology in all sorts of areas.
One of these benefits could be the manufacture of smooth abrasion-proof coatings containing nano particles.
There could also be benefits for our health, in the form of medicinal products or cosmetics.
There are two kinds of nanotechnology.
Biological information systems form part of this group.
In conclusion, it should be stated that scienctific policy in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology should first take account of the fact that, as it stands, the development of ‘top down’ technology in the European Union allows for the creation of at least a few and perhaps more than a dozen technological platforms.
The report in its present form strikes a balance between high-tech and the bounds of ethics as well as between industrial policy and the interests of the consumer, both of which are equally important and must be balanced.
If we are to stay ahead, real support must be forthcoming from the European Union, and that can be done not only through the Seventh Framework Programme for Research but also – and this is at least equally important – through standardisation and the application of norms.
There is enormous scope available in the semiconductor industry, in the automobile sector and in medical technology.
Nanoparticles are being used widely in sensitive consumer products such as cosmetics, detergents, paints and textiles.
The European scientific committee has stated, and points out in its opinion of 28 and 29 September of last year, that there are significant gaps in the knowledge required to assess the risks, for example with regard to the definition of nanoparticles, their detection and measuring, data, doses, responses, evolution, the persistence of nanoparticles in human beings and in the environment and all aspects of environmental toxicology.
The main problem is that the uncontrolled release of nanoparticles may be considerably more dangerous than that of conventional particles, because nanoparticles are much more chemically reactive and are easily oxidisable, and radicals that are highly reactive and harmful to the human body may be produced.
Nanotubes may behave in the human body in a manner similar to asbestos fibres.
I wish to express my appreciation and support for the report before us, which confirms that this is one of the key technologies of the 21st century.
It is therefore appropriate that nanosciences and nanotechnologies should figure among the EU’s priorities.
There are both negative and positive aspects to this issue, however.
As the report correctly says, the development of nanotechnologies presents an extraordinary opportunity.
The results of work carried out by Liberec Technical University and a company in the town were, in terms of the research and application of nanotechnology, absolutely world-class, including the manufacture of exceptionally high-quality machinery.
Naturally, it is people from other continents – especially from North America, but also from South East Asia.
Another issue is financial support, which, in my opinion, is insufficient, complicated and difficult to obtain.
Nanosciences and nanotechnologies offer very good prospects for young people with an interest in science and technology and in studying at university.
We must not pass up this opportunity to give the development of science and technology in the EU fresh impetus.
In every report the importance of the EU not lagging behind the USA, Japan and China in terms of global competition is pointed out.
It is the international research community, businesses and the national institutions that are best placed to experiment and compete in the field of nanotechnologies, and it is private and state organisations within the nation states that are best placed to produce information material about nanotechnologies in keeping with the values and experiences of their own peoples.
The role of the EU in this context should be restricted to setting up a patent-monitoring system for this field, establishing ethical and environmental policy standards and possibly providing funding of very large-scale projects along the lines of fusion research. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Europe needs a consistent system of cutting-edge infrastructure, research and development in order to remain competitive in the field of nanosciences and nanotechnologies.
Nanosciences and nanotechnologies can play a positive role in achieving important economic, social and environmental goals, and I hope that they will be able to meet the needs of the citizens and thus contribute to the well-being of the nations.
It is vital that more funding be granted to this area of research so as to guarantee the competitiveness of the European industrial system, but there must always be respect for inalienable ethical principles and public health and environmental criteria.
We cannot overlook the fact that there appear to be many toxicological risks linked to nanotechnologies, a point that is also upheld by countless experts interviewed by the prestigious MIT periodical ‘Technology Review’.
The report does, however, also consider this side of things.
To conclude, the nations and Europe have to be competitive in the field of nanosciences, and the effort proposed seems minimal – a half-hearted commitment – in terms of trying to bridge the gap that already exists between us and both the United States and the Far East.
The report rightly considers both the economic and strategic perspectives of the knowledge triangle and the requirements in relation to sustainability and people’s health.
On the contrary, one could say that they are the first in the world.
We need cooperation between the state and the private sector.
It is time, as the European Union, for us to prove that we know not only how to develop new ideas, but also to exploit them for the benefit of European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Potočnik, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report and stress that the European Union must continue to attach importance to scientific research and technological development in nanosciences and nanotechnologies, which, furthermore, are one of the thematic priorities of the Seventh Framework Programme.
This is a multidisciplinary field which opens up a whole range of new opportunities and of solutions to citizens’ and companies’ real needs, and it is therefore expected to make a great contribution to the European Union's achievement of its sustainable development and competitiveness objectives.
I would also like to stress the importance of international cooperation.
Nanotechnologies are extremely important, and none more so than nanoelectronics, which enables us to achieve ever greater gains in efficiency while consuming less energy than we currently do with microelectronics, as is also confirmed by the platform’s work.
Nanotechnologies signify the intelligent use of common materials, for example through filtration and catalysis, of materials that may enable us to avoid the difficulties linked at times to the scarcity of rare elements.
According to the available evidence, these particles can pass directly through the cell membranes and therefore may attack the nucleic acids.
The overall issue of advancing and safeguarding science is in fact a Union issue. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, what are policy-makers supposed to do about nanotechnology?
Nanotechnology is used to put on the market products such as cosmetics, cleaning materials, and textiles, which are aimed at private consumers and virtually unregulated.
As Mr&#160;Prodi has just said, there is no legal framework applicable to nanotechnology.
We cannot simply allow these products to be put onto the market and tested on consumers; we cannot allow consumers to be treated as guinea pigs!
Anything else would be to do a disservice to nanotechnology, which can make headway on the market, and be economically sustainable, only if we make it plain that account must also be taken of the interests of the consumers and of the risks involved.
If Europe is to be a good place in which to site a business, it must also be a good place in which to be a consumer, and there is a lot missing in that respect.
What I expect of the European Union is that it should give the USA an answer, and our answer, the European response to nanotechnology, far from being that we are willing to follow technology in a lemming-like fashion, must be that we will take a socially responsible approach and consider the risks involved. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is vitally important that attention be given to nanotechnology.
What is absent, above all, is the willingness to consider concerns other than safety risks, not least the issue of whether or not new technologies are desirable, or issues to do with people’s convictions about life in general.
Secondly, we in the European Union must concentrate more on international coordination, not only as regards toxicity tests and risk assessments across the whole life cycle, but also as regards legislation on standards, labelling and liability, with those who market nanoparticles being liable for any damage caused by them.
It might then consider the question of to what extent the patents and licenses would put poorer countries at a still greater disadvantage and what might be done to counteract this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the results of research into nanotechnology and its applications indicate an enormous potential for producing materials with beneficial properties.
The way in which these materials are exploited will have an impact on progress in the fields of industry, the economy and health protection in the 21st century, as well as improving our standard of living.
The report indicates a range of obstacles to be overcome.
I should like to thank Mr&#160;Randsford for a sound and much-needed report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which sets out very precisely the trends in this dynamic sector of science and technology.
The report reacts to some of these, while leaving others unanswered.
The conclusion from the text before us is that our global partners and competitors are aware of the importance of nanotechnologies and related research.
The issue of patenting inventions in the area of nanosciences and nanotechnologies is moving ahead slowly in Europe and the report emphasises the need to reform the European patent system in order to help science and innovation as a whole.
The fact that these technologies are not the subject of any restrictions may come back to haunt us.
I believe that in the near future we will have to take the area of nanotechnologies into account too, and address this question. &#160;&#160; – Nanotechnologies have potential, but anyone seeking, uninformed, to release such technologies onto the consumer market, unregulated and without safeguards, really does jeopardise such potential.
Coal dust is not hazardous, but nanoparticles in the form of carbon clusters cause serious brain damage in fish within 48 hours at concentrations as low as 0.5 ppm.
The ‘European Institute of Technology’ proposed by the Commission under President Barroso could make it its business, by means of a top-down strategy, to communicate the insights of fundamental research to the education and training sectors, or a bottom-up strategy might be employed to extract this knowledge from the educational institutions, but also and in particular from small and medium-sized businesses and to present it on such a platform as ‘eBay’, with the possibility of the net being used to exchange ideas, express aspirations and guarantee better communication in the twenty or more European languages.
The fusion reactor ITER could also play a role in this respect, for it is in research into fusion and plasma that nanotechnology presents a whole new challenge as a means of advancing energy efficiency, minimising losses due to wear and tear, and of developing strategies for fighting against corrosion, not least in the generation of energy.
The European Commission’s action plan outlines preconditions for the continued support of this sector and calls on Member States to put more emphasis on it within the context of developing a&#160;knowledge-based economy.
Nanotechnology forms an integral part of various technological disciplines and will, in the near future, have a major positive impact on virtually every branch of industry, and these facts alone necessitate the implementation of an action plan in order to ensure a high degree of coordination and support.
I would now like to mention some of the problems facing this important area of research and development.
I believe that research and development of any extent at all in the area of nanotechnology would in itself meet the criteria of excellence.
We continue to witness a deterioration in the amount of funding available for research and development, and this applies also to nanotechnology.
In addition to the Seventh Framework Programme, a&#160;solution might be sought, primarily for smaller research and innovation projects, in venture capital, where the potential for more efficient institutionalisation by means of public-private partnerships is often underestimated.
I believe that the European Commission, along with the European Investment Fund, could play a better coordinating role through the JEREMIE Programme, accompanied by specific and clear recommendations to Member States regarding the creation of efficient incentives financed from public funds, including the structural funds. &#160;&#160; Nanoscience and nanotechnology have a great potential to make further contributions to the prosperity of mankind.
However, we are rather late in dealing with this matter.
Parliament, the Commission and the Council are close to finalising negotiations on the Seventh Framework Programme.
This programme includes some essential elements of the Action Plan, such as research, innovation, and, to an extent, human resources.
In the meantime, a lively debate has been sparked about what is called the European Institute of Technology, which is a further development of this idea concerned with securing the critical mass with an emphasis on human resources.
Nanosciences and nanotechnologies can serve as one of the test areas for establishing an ever closer relationship between the three sides of what is known as the knowledge triangle.
This is a field in which Europe’s research institutions and businesses are world leaders; in the Netherlands alone, the nanotech industry achieves a turnover of EUR&#160;20&#160;billion, and the government is investing record amounts in it, for example in the ‘Centre for Molecular Medicine’ in Eindhoven.
The Seventh Framework Programme for research and development, the European technology platforms and the 'regions of knowledge', together with the Structural Funds, have laid a good foundation, particularly where finance is concerned.
It is also extremely important that the way in which we approach questions of risk should be transparent and that we educate people in the proper way.
Today’s report was a very good opportunity to underline all these components of our approach and I should like to thank honourable Members for their attention to these issues, for the support given to our work and for the concerns they have raised. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We have a European consensus on development and also a new strategy for Africa.
The many issues that we have dealt with in this report include the following: the actual definition of development cooperation and, therefore, of what each Member State is legitimately entitled to include under public development aid; the minimum level of aid to be obtained if our commitments are to be honoured; the untying of aid, a process that Member States – a number of them, in any case – are clearly reluctant to apply; the absence of indicators enabling real progress in improving European aid to be assessed; or, again, the concern of actors on the ground who note a certain reluctance to involve beneficiary countries in the strategies and programmes intended for those countries.
In addition to these specific issues that give us some grasp of how far we still have to go in improving our aid in practical terms, the three Cs – complementarity of actions, coordination of programmes and coherence of policies - also constitute a framework within which to work and a particularly important template for interpreting the action that we shall have to take over the next few years where cooperation is concerned.
The fact remains that centralised coordination between Member States and the Commission would offer undoubted advantages and would, in particular, make it possible to avoid the present situation in which a multitude of different actors do the same thing in the same country or region.
This precise point appears on the agenda of the Finnish Presidency, which has decided to devote a large part of its work to the matter.
As demonstrated during all the debates on the European Consensus, the Commission should promote the impact of Europe in development and push the European aid effectiveness agenda.
It is rooted in the principles of harmonisation, ownership, alignment and management by results, as in the Paris Declaration.
In order to address these weaknesses, the Commission launched a process with Member States aimed at adopting operational principles for a better division of labour between EU donors.
Partner countries and civil society play a major and active role in this process.
In 2007, the Commission will bring forward specific proposals on how to strengthen the use of cofinancing as a tool to support the division of labour amongst donors, as well as to assist those Member States building their development capacities.
We must make sure that these commitments remain high on our political agenda and that we do not miss this real opportunity to turn our ambitious political commitments into reality.
It goes beyond politics; it is a matter of collective credibility. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, our thanks must go, in the first place, to Mr&#160;Hutchinson for this important report.
Commissioner Mandelson’s negotiators preach free trade subject to global rules, while the people under Commissioner Michel work for development and try to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, and policy on agricultural subsidies runs counter to what either camp is aiming for.
With this in mind, I would emphasise the importance of putting innovative funding mechanisms in place, enabling stable and predictable resources to be made available.
The European Union must play the role of conductor with a view to bringing about a better distribution of the tasks under the heading of development aid.
Such coordination must take place both at European Union level and on the ground, with the beneficiary nations also being involved.
The European Union and its Member States have the same ambitions in terms of development.
We in the European Parliament, in our Committee on Development and, of course, in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament must commit ourselves to ensuring that Mr&#160;Hutchinson’s proposals do not remain a mere statement of good intentions and that they do not come to nothing.
The 65 important proposals contained in the Hutchinson report make clear the fact that this House does indeed possess competence that should be drawn on in future, but I believe there is a second pillar of competence, alongside the governments of the objective regions, in the form of the institutions that operate in those regions, which need to be far more involved.
We say ‘Union’ but we think in terms of ‘Member States’, as the European Council’s decisions from December&#160;2005 in Brussels clearly state that 80% to 90% of new aid to developing countries must come from the Member States.
We should ask ourselves whether, in the future, we will be prepared to view debt reduction for specific countries, most recently Iraq and Nigeria, as a form of development aid.
In conclusion, speaking as a representative of a new Member State of the European Union, the new and poorer countries of the Union find themselves in a completely unfamiliar situation.
Our countries need to understand that there are those in the world who are even poorer than us. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I, too, should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very good report.
If the donor countries want to make their aid more effective, they are in many domains dependent on non-governmental organisations in order to ensure that the aid provided is actually used to reduce poverty, and that it does in fact reach the poor and disadvantaged in the partner countries.
The Member States must keep to the commitments they have made regarding the funding of development aid, in other words 0.56% of their gross domestic product in 2010 and 0.7% in 2015.
According to the most recent figures from the OECD's Development Assistance Committee, in 2005 the European Union identified debt relief for Iraq and Nigeria, in particular, as development aid, despite the fact that the Monterrey Consensus explicitly states that financial resources provided for debt relief should not come from development aid funds that are normally intended to be directly available for developing countries.
The European Parliament therefore calls on the Member States to draw up an accurate list each year, clearly showing the contributions provided directly for development aid.
It will only be possible to solve this problem by means of better coordination between the development cooperation of the Community and that of the Member States.
The report proposes a working group in which representatives of civil society should be involved.
The European Union is able to become, and in fact must become, a leader, not only in terms of the scope but also in terms of the effectiveness of aid.
Maximum attention to the issue should come from the Members of Parliament, and from both the EU and from beneficiary States. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It is indeed hard to find a better reason for tackling the issue of the effectiveness of European Union development aid.
One cannot but agree with the statement that it only makes sense to increase development aid funding if there is a significant improvement in the effectiveness of this aid.
I am convinced that the citizens of Europe will support an increase in funding for development aid.
The provision on achieving deeper, decentralised cooperation and working directly with local authorities in developing countries should therefore be recognised as being worthy of support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to put a point of order.
This is intolerable, and I would like the House to take note of it. &#160;&#160; I believe that the applause is indicative of our fellow Members’ approval of what you have said. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I am in complete agreement with what Mrs&#160;Bozkurt said.
The rapporteur also involves himself in other strictly national matters, such as the monitoring and supervision of bilateral aid.
The competent national authorities, moreover, must at least be involved in the process of recognising third-country control bodies.
It is therefore essential to ensure that organic products put onto the market with the EU-wide organic label should be produced, without exception, in accordance with the principles and conditions set out in Regulation (ΕEC) No 2092/91.
Accordingly, it should be a great opportunity for cooperation, scientific and technical progress, and for the exchange of, and access to, information, without affecting the citizens’ rights, guarantees and freedoms.
What we are seeing is a trend towards placing security concerns ahead of human rights.
The new Hague Programme of 2004 lacks a vision for the future.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the EU common immigration policy (RC-B6-0508/2006), given the need for the Union to adopt a proper common immigration policy and to remove all obstacles to the kind of European asylum system in which shared rules on protecting the fundamental rights of immigrants and asylum seekers in the EU could be defined.
It is highly peculiar, as well as unacceptable, that the EU should have been experimenting with a common migration policy for a decade.
True, it is only since 1995 and the disastrous Schengen agreements that the Front National has unceasingly exposed, and warned against, the inevitable harm caused by the abolition of the EU’s internal border controls.
Those are the essential preconditions for putting an immediate stop to this tidal wave of immigration. &#160;&#160; . – We voted against the two resolutions proposed to us.
The June List champions the cause of national self-determination and sovereignty, irrespective of whether the state in question is in the EU or anywhere else in the world.
We have therefore voted against this report.
The report promotes the so-called 'Doha Development Agenda' and the pursuit of negotiations, which are currently deadlocked, on liberalising trade and markets around the world.
The report, once again, emphasises the need for the EU to urge India and the G20 to ‘realise’ that ‘the European offer on agriculture must be followed by a reasonable offer by the G20 on non-agricultural market access and services’, which is unacceptable.
The BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) are a key factor in understanding the current state of play in world trade, although we should not be considering drawing up identical strategies as regards Brazil, Russia, China or India.
India is of major importance, and in geographical, political and economic terms, the country’s situation requires special attention, as we expect it to be an important ally in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the MEPs from the Czech ODS party refused to back the report by Mrs&#160;Breyer on perspectives of women in international trade.
We look upon people as individual citizens with individual rights and freedoms guaranteed by the State and not as collective groups pre-determined by gender and with collective rights.
Equality before the law has long been a reality in all countries.
We therefore voted against the report. &#160;&#160; We have voted against the report on perspectives of women in international trade.
Equality is important, especially in terms of the working world, where a situation in which women receive their own wages contributes considerably to their becoming independent and gaining control over their own lives.
Allow me to make an observation: all too often statements of principle do not correspond to reality; in fact, female entrepreneurs continue to encounter huge problems, partly because they often represent small and medium-sized enterprises or distributors and the craft industry, sectors that are being increasingly affected by the globalisation of markets, a process that all too often lacks clear and common rules.
What is in fact required is not only more economic aid, but also more structural aid, in order to support women in the world of work and enterprise and to take a firm stand against this pseudoculture that sees women’s social and economic rights – as sanctioned by the Beijing Platform for Action – ignored or even labelled obstacles.
Despite our vote in favour of the report, I must point out that the Union’s political and practical task is to tackle, with courageous proposals, the negative aspects that penalise a broad cross-section of women, especially in the poorest countries, but also in the EU Member States. &#160;&#160; .I must congratulate my fellow Member, Mrs&#160;Breyer, on her report.
The figures are in fact very worrying: 70% of the 1.3&#160;billion people who live in poverty worldwide are women.
However, I must admit that it is worth stressing here that gender inequality, particularly in Asia and Africa, where women are humiliated, scorned and considered inferior to men, obviously creates difficulties in the economic, commercial, social and political fields.
Above all, it is quite clear that it is the very status of women that needs to be reviewed immediately in all of those countries in which Islamic law very often prevails. &#160;&#160; .Between economic difficulties, the exhaustion of stocks and finicky controls, European fishing is in a bad way.
It is high time the European Union learnt its lessons from this finding.
This report includes several positive guidelines, which represent the fruits both of our joining forces with the fishermen from my region and of the support of my political group.
Firstly, it calls on the European Commission to review its work and to formulate more specific and more ambitious proposals in order to respond to the seriousness of the crisis hitting the sector.
I would, however, have liked the European Parliament to have gone further in terms of demanding a specific programme for Mediterranean fisheries.
These proposals from representatives of the fisheries sector have been on the table for a long time and were designed to tackle the current economic and social crisis, which has been exacerbated by the steep rise in fuel costs.
This is especially disappointing given that Parliament has called for such a policy for other sectors such as agriculture. &#160;&#160; – The fishing industry is important both to the food chain and to local economic development.
However, to maintain a consistent position on the major problems facing the fishing industry – over-capacity and over-fishing – the EPLP wishes to record its disagreement with the position adopted by the report on four issues: 1.
The Commission suggested EUR 30 000 and the EPLP advocates a more cautious approach. 3.
Paragraph 5 of the report incorrectly implies that ICES and ICATT support an increase in the fins to live weight ratio for the blue shark.
The EPLP supported those amendments which would help to get rid of the barbaric practice of shark finning. - Amendment 1 which would suspend any change in the fin to carcass ratio pending a review; (…) &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the Ransdorf report because it highlights the importance of nanosciences and nanotechnologies in fields as diverse as medicine, surgery, energy, electronics, metallurgy, and so on.
However, I voted against the amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and against certain paragraphs that, using the precautionary principle as a pretext, are aimed at making people think that nanotechnologies are dangerous, because they manipulate the smallest particles - atoms and molecules.
We need to strengthen Europe’s position on nanotechnologies in the face of global competition.
The President shared with others deep concern at the progress of climate change, and called on partners to work together to achieve efficient, clean and sustainable energy use and the reduction of emissions.
The emergence of the geostrategic and geoeconomic role of Asia and the dynamic appearance of strong emerging economies are shaping the new international framework within which the European Union is being called up to face up to the serious political, economic, energy and environmental challenges being created by globalisation.
The institutionalisation of the annual summits is contributing towards dialogue and multilateral cooperation in crucial sectors for the future of mankind, such as peace, security, energy, the environment and economic and social development.
Furthermore, multilateral cooperation and the rules of conduct are being cited on their terms, for example, in the fields of environmental protection, workers' social rights and women's and children's rights.
That is why the European Commission could table some ideas with us for the operational follow-up to the summits and the need – in my opinion – for relations between the European Union and Asia to be institutionalised. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the importance of political, economic and cultural dialogue between Europe and Asia cannot, of course, be underestimated, and I am still surprised that the two major groups in this House have nevertheless decided not to bring in a resolution following on from the ASEM summit in Helsinki on 10/11 September.
Fifty years ago, it was still a developing country, but now some 97% of its people between the ages of 25 and 34 have completed at least secondary schooling – the highest percentage in the industrialised world.
Our economic programmes need to be extended to include the promotion of contacts between, and joint ventures involving, small and medium-sized businesses in the European Union and Asia, as well as cooperation between such bodies as local authorities and universities.
The recent consultation on the future of the patent system in Europe delivered one simple message: the legal framework should offer an affordable patent protection for all businesses, small and big, ensure legal certainty and be applied for the benefit of all players.
A solid legal framework is therefore essential.
The consultation has shown that industry favours the Commission’s effort to simplify the patent system in Europe and to make it more cost-effective.
However, industry is not enamoured of the political compromise reached in the Council in 2003 on the Community patent.
The possibility of multi-forum litigation concerning the same invention naturally adds cost, but even more importantly it creates uncertainty, as different courts in different countries can deliver diverging interpretations on the same patented invention.
We cannot aspire to be the most competitive economy in the world if we do not find workable solutions for patent application and protection.
The consultation threw up many such issues, for example, the possible mediation mechanisms that could precede litigation, the need to create technology markets that would enable businesses to trade their IPR more successfully, and the idea of exchanging best practice between national patent offices, especially in terms of the special needs of SMEs.
I will be responding to all these issues, in cooperation with my colleagues in the Commission, and therefore intend to propose a comprehensive strategy.
As you know, we launched the Lisbon process together in 2000, and, since then, we have worked tirelessly to point out, in declarations of the Heads of State or Government and in Parliamentary resolutions, that the development of the European patent system is one of the most important preconditions that will enable us to reach the goals defined by Lisbon.
This must be resolved and made more viable and practicable, particularly for SMEs.
However, when Article&#160;308 is the legal basis and unanimity in the Council is required, it is difficult to reach agreement.
The competitiveness of the European patent would push us a long way back in global terms and not guarantee the necessary quality.
What, then, is left for us to do?
There are, however, institutional problems in this regard: on the one hand, the European Union's fully legitimate claim that the Member States should not legislate in areas that, at any rate, actually lie partly in its sphere of competence and belong to the internal market; and, on the other hand, the Member States' keenness to make progress.
I take the position that we must try to link these two problems together to solve them.
In my view, one conceivable option would be for the European Union to be involved in some way – to be decided by negotiations – in the European patent agreement and, in return, for the European Union to clear up the institutional concerns regarding the European Patent Litigation Agreement (EPLA).
This could be one way in which we could improve the situation while agreement cannot be reached in the Council regarding a Community patent.
Otherwise, the grand project of developing the European patent system is doomed to failure. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, there are not very many of us in this Chamber, which does not mean to say that we are not deliberating serious issues – far from it.
We all know that this patent has come up against enormous difficulties and that it is at a standstill.
Unlike my fellow Member, Mr&#160;Lehne, I am not just a European Member who is in favour of Europe; I am also French.
Moreover, as regards software, we cannot ratify the EPLA, because the EPLA gives a professional group of judges a partly international, partly European function: that of making changes to the case law as they see fit, without any legislative control or sovereignty having a bearing on their actions.
It was a very useful exercise, because it has shown the extent of the problems with the Community patent proposals.
We all want single market considerations to prevail and that leads eventually to having a Community patent, but the consultation shows that there are steps that can be taken to improve the process.
The EPLA initiative by Member States, which is optional, embraces some of those steps.
Surely they could remain, in the same way that national patent filings have now coexisted with European patents for nearly 30 years.
It ignores the fact that, in the EPLA structure, such technical judges would be in the minority among national judges who have been praised by those of the same persuasion as Mr&#160;Rocard for their stance in those areas of technology.
That is why solutions are needed which will enable the process of harmonising patent law to begin.
It is important not to resort to using patent law in isolation from the innovations themselves, because by its very nature a patent implies that free competition is restricted to a certain degree.
A harmonising directive would be the best solution from the point of view of the Community’s interest, but Parliament rejected the Commission’s previous proposals.
The costs relating to the protection of patent rights must also be balanced and easy to implement.
The kind of change we have in mind, however, must satisfy the needs of both large businesses and small and medium-sized European firms. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;McCreevy on his work on the creation of an internal market, particularly with regard to patent law.
Nevertheless, I must point out that we Members of the European Parliament are here representing our constituents, and the reactions I have received from constituents from the industrial sector in my country to this proposal have been negative.
I hope that the Commissioner and the Commission in general will reflect on this issue and will be able to offer us a proposal that is acceptable to the whole of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your efforts at getting this slow-moving vessel steaming ahead again.
At the present time, the EU has no democratic control over the European Patent Office, and that is of course much to be regretted.
We go along with your way of thinking, and it would be good if the EU were to do as it did at the Hague conference, were to take part as a political and economic organisation, so that we, as part of it, could have influence on what happens.
We all agree that the situation is not perfect and we all know that there are different views as to the right solutions.
The consultation delivered some clear and important messages.
The patent strategy now contains more than just our future plans for a Community patent and EPLA.
Our objective is to produce a system that meets the needs of all stakeholders at all levels – national, European and Community –and provides a fair balance between the diverse interests involved.
I was mildly surprised that the outline for our future strategy, which I set out in a speech in Helsinki some weeks ago, has been used by some to make assertions that the Commission wishes to bring the computer-implemented inventions question back on to the agenda.
The vote will take place on Thursday&#160;12 October at 11&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; I have grave doubts about the proposals for a system of patent courts that would be at arm’s length both from democratic institutions and from proper judicial review.
There were important matters to discuss, such as the coup in Thailand and the situation in Moldova, but the Conference of Presidents arbitrarily decided that there would be no topical and urgent debate.
