I would also like to thank the Commission for their cooperation, and we look forward to working with them on this dossier in the future.
However, we must do everything we can to minimise both the number of tests and the amount of suffering imposed upon animals.
I believe that the AGRI Committee report strikes a compromise between ensuring that research can continue in the EU and improving animal welfare.
This directive will set out the framework to ensure that we can phase out animal testing as soon as alternative methods are available.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, I welcome the opportunity that we have this evening of debating the proposal to revise the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
Numerous Member States have long since adopted their own national legislation on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
The Commission's aim is to improve the legislation of the European Union governing animal experiments.
Several of the welfare standards contained in our proposal and many of the stricter licensing procedures are already being applied by Member States who lead the way in research globally.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is a compromise that takes account of the views of the parties in a balanced way.
The Commission proposal has been amended in a way that the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy is also proposing.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Animal Testing Directive is based on the 3Rs principle.
However, the complete abolition of animal testing without other methods being available as an adequate replacement would make the majority of the research based on animal experimentation in the European Union almost impossible.
The result of the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 31 March meets these requirements.
For instance, the standards that I have just referred to have been turned on their heads by the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
To give just one example, following the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, tests will be automatically authorised if they have not received official authorisation after 60 days.
I am pleased that Mr Parish plans to introduce an oral amendment tomorrow to ensure that the rules on the authorisation period for projects are made clearer.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) I am pleased that the Commission has taken the initiative to revise the Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
Finally, the use of non-human primates in experiments must be phased out completely - and rapidly.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, high animal welfare standards are an expression of civilisation and of respect for one's fellow creatures.
This also goes for good procedures that reduce animal suffering or require fewer laboratory animals, as we want less animal suffering.
In this case, we must do absolutely everything we can to ensure that European research remains in the territory of Europe so that we can offer maximum protection.
Let us particularly make sure that this research is not relocated outside Europe. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, using animals for scientific purposes is a very sensitive matter that gives rise to controversial and irreconcilable emotions, if viewed from one side only.
However, our sensitivity is even further heightened when we are faced with the suffering of human beings caused by accidents, war or disease.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, I should like to thank all the speakers for their very constructive contributions to this evening's debate.
The Commission can accept numerous amendments in full, in part or in principle.
They also include proposals for regular review of the use of non-human primates at European Union level.
To recapitulate, the Commission is able to accept 83 of the 202 proposed amendments in full, in part or in principle.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I should like to thank Members very much for their views and the Commissioner for his views.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Tuesday, 5 May 2009).
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (LT) The draft Commission report strongly supports the development of a more animal welfare friendly approach to the issue of the use of animals in scientific experimentation.
The European Union should be working towards this goal.
However, whilst this remains the end goal, we are not yet in a position to end animal experimentation altogether.
I also support the amendment stipulating that the directive must not restrict Member States from applying or adopting more stringent national measures, aimed at improving the welfare and protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
