Proposed hearing of the Commission on crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by totalitarian regimes (8 April 2008) (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by totalitarian regimes.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to report on the hearing on crimes committed by totalitarian regimes in order to address legitimate concerns raised by Parliament.
On 8 April 2008 the Commission and the Slovenian Presidency held a hearing on crimes committed by totalitarian regimes.
This hearing was requested by the Council in April 2007 during the negotiations on the Framework Decision on combating racism and xenophobia.
The hearing was conducive to constructive and dispassionate debate.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, while talking, debating and approaching an essential common position on the evaluation of crimes of totalitarian regimes in Europe, one obstacle is most evident as a barrier to more rapid moral and legislative success.
The total number of victims probably exceeds 100 million dead and martyred in the Holocaust and through mass executions and deportations, artificially generated hunger, in death and concentration camps.
Today, more than 60 years after World War II ended, more than a dozen years after the fall of Soviet communism, it is amazing that within the European Union there are still people who refuse to recognise that communism was a criminal system.
The working group we have set up in Parliament, called United Europe United History, which already has some 50 Members, will be soliciting just such a condemnation.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think our duty in this matter is threefold.
We will only be able to counter such crimes if we can bring those responsible to justice, wherever they are, whether in Guantánamo, in Darfur, or in Bosnia, among Bosnian Serbs.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, war is one thing, the destruction of nations and crimes against humanity quite another.
Another undeniable fact is the forcible deportation and killing of over one and a half million Armenians by the Turkish authorities between 1915 and 1917.
Another of your colleagues, Mr Frattini, who will soon be leaving us, said in his letter to Mr Landsbergis: 'Your history - referring to Lithuania's suffering under Stalin - your history is our history.' Commissioner, in your reply, perhaps you could explain things in greater depth, as it may be that I have misunderstood.
I believe that it is here in Parliament and in the Council that a great deal has been done to remember the forgotten dead.
There are people still living today in Poland and in the Baltic States who have lost their parents, their grandparents, but no one remembers them.
The perpetrator was not Hitler. (DE) Mr President, we Social Democrats have been persecuted by every totalitarian and authoritarian regime of the 20th century, whether by the Nazis or by the thugs of Stalin, Franco or Mussolini - the list is long.
We say 'no' to the attempt to establish a new framework for interpreting European history, which emerged from the speeches made by some Members of this House at a conference held on 22 January this year.
Some of the victims of the Soviet totalitarian regime are still alive, but the European Union's position does not offer them any satisfaction - in fact, worse than that, it continues to humiliate them.
Arrested for the first time in the early years of the 20th century, in 1911, Pużak, the leader of the Polish Socialist Party, the leader of the underground Socialist Party during World War II in the struggle against Nazism, and arrested again by the NKVD in 1945, died tragically in a Stalinist prison in Poland on 30 April 1950.
At the same time, Commissioner, I address you in particular; history is today, regretfully, the subject of manipulation, a kind of crusade, colonisation undertaken by the populist right, by nationalist movements.
As a Spanish democrat, I sympathise with democrats who were victims of Stalinism in their countries, but I also ask them to show solidarity with those in Spain who lived through the oppression and suffering imposed by the dictatorship of General Franco.
Certainly central and eastern Europe bear a much greater responsibility for Stalinism, but it is also true that, for my country, the responsibility lay mostly with western democracies who accepted the Franco tyranny established by Hitler and Mussolini as part of their free world and were complicit in his misdeeds.
Mr President, we have achieved much together as a united Europe, and Europe will be that much stronger, and offer greater guarantees of freedom and democracy, the more its construction is founded on an awareness of the progress represented by sharing in a project which identifies and rejects the dark side of our past in order to build a future dedicated to the values which unite us. (PL) I would like to express my satisfaction that today's debate on the matters related to bloody totalitarian systems has been possible.
Communism has its origins with Rosa Luxemburg, Liebknecht, Marx, Lenin and Stalin, and led to the planned deaths of tens of millions of inhabitants of central eastern Europe.
Many bloody crimes, for example the Katyń massacre, are taboo topics to this day, and these crimes may not be called by their proper name, genocide.
Right-wing politicians, journalists and so-called historians, many of whom used to be members of the former communist regime and obtained the title of doctor or engineer from the communist regime's educational establishments, constantly attack social democratic parties as if they were some kind of communist or post-communist parties, in spite of the fact that it was in fact social democrats who, both at home and in exile, fought communism for 40 years.
This was facilitated by the fact that - let us say that for 14 years Lithuania had been under an authoritarian regime, which had quashed democracy and abolished free elections.
The communist movement has survived for 160 years and has different faces in different countries; however, all communist regimes were antidemocratic.
My father, Štefan Kányai, spent nine and a half years in a Russian gulag.
I also thank you on behalf of Bishop Ján Vojtaššák, Monsignor Viktor Trstenský, Štefan Putanko, Štefan Janík and thousands of other brave sons of the Slovak nation who were victims of communism.
The Slovak priest František Dlugoš writes the following in one of his books: 'To investigate the events that took place during the 40 years of the communist regime, to find out people's destinies, means revealing the soul of the nation.' Following today's debate, I can add 'the soul of Europe'.
I welcome this debate because examining this unique period in time, and the events that took place during this period, can be very beneficial for us now and in the future. (LT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in EU history, with the help of debates on the assessment of totalitarian regimes at EU level, attempts are being made to cause people to consider the crimes of both communism and Nazism to be the terror of totalitarian regimes that caused damage to countries and their people.
Crimes committed by the European Nazi regimes have received global damnation, with Nazi parties being banned and Nazi propaganda being punishable by law.
We want not only each Member State to be held individually responsible for honouring this duty to remember, but also all EU citizens to feel a sense of solidarity and involvement in the tragic events that have taken place in some of our Member States.
I therefore believe that this study must be very broad in scope and clearly should not disregard any form of totalitarism.
I should like to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen, that, quite apart from these few words of response, I am personally entirely convinced that we all, as Europeans, have a collective duty of solidarity to establish the truth, our truth as Europeans, without disregarding or diminishing the crimes that have been committed under various totalitarian regimes.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FI) Mr President, the most precious gift we have from our examination of history is events we know about - facts.
in writing. - (ET) On 8 April the public hearing held by the Slovenian Presidency and the European Commission dealt with an extremely important topic for the European Union.
Metaxas, Franco, Mussolini, Salazar and a host of lesser dictators perpetrated crimes of their own, following Hitler and Stalin's brutality.
As a first step on behalf of common approach to history I would urge our governments to designate 23 August as a Europe-wide Day of Remembrance for the victims of Stalinism and Nazism.
in writing. - (ET) Unfortunately it is a fact that although nearly all westerners are aware of the concentration camps of Nazi Germany, most of them have heard nothing about the gulags.
in writing. - (PL) In the 20th century Europe has experienced many acts of genocide.
