SWIFT (debate) The next item is the Council statement on SWIFT.
Members who participated in the in camera meeting of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on 3 September 2009 heard how the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme, the TFTP, has helped to improve security for EU citizens as well as others.
We have a common responsibility to ensure that the crime prevention authorities can counter terrorism effectively.
I myself had the opportunity, during the meeting of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on 22 July, to explain the workings of the TFTP and why we need an interim solution to prevent its interruption.
Moreover, Judge Bruguière's report confirmed that the US authorities had honoured the commitments they made in 2007 regarding data protection, namely - as Mrs Ask explained very well just now - to limit data preservation and to limit access to the data, so that they are used only where terrorist financing is suspected.
It is clear, however, that the judicial framework negotiated in 2007 will no longer be operational since the data will no longer be located in the United States, after the change in the architecture of SWIFT, scheduled for the end of the year.
I would add that we are pleased to be able to prepare this agreement, which will be a permanent agreement, a long-term agreement, by demanding, of course, full reciprocity from our US partners.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, SWIFT has clearly become a testing ground for getting the balance right between our cooperation with the United States, fighting terrorism and protecting our fundamental rights.
When, in our resolutions of 2006 and 2007, Parliament asked for the mirroring site of SWIFT to be moved from US to EU soil, it was obviously because we thought that the protection offered by the US framework to EU citizens was not in line with EU standards and would have to be improved.
The Socialist and Democrat Group is clear that this interim agreement should apply only for 12 months and that a new agreement should be negotiated with Parliament as co-legislator so that we in this House can ensure that delicate balance of protecting the fundamental rights of European citizens in the important and critical fight against terrorism.
There are also a number of questions that I would really like to see answered in relation to Swift, as they were not answered on 3 September.
In this affair, the United States plundered bank data, without legal basis and without even the slightest information from the authorities in Europe.
The first question that arises is, of course, how we can guarantee that the US will abide by the agreement.
The Bruguière Report, which dates from December 2008, was handed to me in January 2009.
The debate is closed. (Vote: 17 September 2009)
