Classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures - Classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (amendment of Directives 76/768/EEC, 88/378/EEC, 1999/13/EC, 2000/53/EC, 2002/96/EC and 2004/42/EC) - Classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (amendment of Regulation (EC) No 648/2004) (debate) The first item is the joint debate on the report by Amalia Sartori, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and amending Directive 67/548/EEC and Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 - C6-0197/2007 -, the report by Amalia Sartori, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on a proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 76/768/EEC, 88/378/EEC, 1999/13/EC and Directives 2000/53/EC, 2002/96/EC and 2004/42/EC in order to adapt them to Regulation (EC) ...
on Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures, and amending Directive 67/548/EEC and Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 - C6-0347/2007 -, and the report by Amalia Sartori, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 648/2004 in order to adapt it to Regulation (EC) No ...
on Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures, and amending Directive 67/548/EEC and Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 - C6-0349/2007 -.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague Commissioner Dimas, I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Sartori, for her thorough work on this difficult proposal.
Therefore, it stands to reason that we have endeavoured to achieve a worldwide system to describe and label these hazards.
European enterprises will save money because they will not need to evaluate chemical hazard procedures that apply in different countries according to different criteria and different systems.
After two months of tripartite technical discussions with the other institutions, we have achieved a satisfying compromise package with the Council, approved by COREPER on 27 June and which, if today's vote is successful, will allow us to conclude at first reading.
With this new legislation, we need, on the one hand, to maintain the commitments we have assumed at international level - and thus ensure that the UN GHS is consistent with our own legislation in terms of content - and on the other, we must meet the existing deadlines imposed by our own legislation in REACH.
Under these new rules, which are identical all over the world, countries will not be allowed to consider the same product more harmful or less harmful than in other countries.
I believe, therefore, that for users and workers in this sector, particularly in the extremely high number of small and medium-sized enterprises, our proposal can be an effective response not only for all of our citizens and all Europeans, but for people all around the world.
I think the work we have done, though not easy with a text of 2 000 pages, has brought real progress.
Out of 360 companies, 45%, employing fewer than 250 employees, responded to this online consultation held by the Commission between 21 August and 21 October 2006.
Our Committee was also keen on consistency with REACH and therefore tabled amendments concerning tonnage.
But when the transfer took place, modifications were made to this list and it will have to be applied as soon the GHS comes into force, though in the case of technical adaptations, the timeframe for this is at least 18 months.
I think we have done a good job and I am hoping for a good vote and for the GHS to be applied properly.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say that it gave the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection great satisfaction to see the compromise presented by Mrs Sartori on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
We believe that, with this solution, we have found a very good compromise and a very good solution, both for the chemical companies in the European internal market - most of which operate globally - and for consumers, and that we have also achieved a very good compromise for consumers with sensitivities.
I am happy with the result because I believe, from the point of view of the internal market, and of enterprises - particularly chemicals enterprises, whose experience of the European level in terms of REACH has not been 100% positive - that the Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), as a universal guideline set up by the United Nations, can be implemented on the European internal market in a very non-bureaucratic way and with a practical orientation.
Commissioner, in the trialogue discussions, we also briefly discussed the fact that legislation on the transport of these consumer goods has still not been harmonised and that it would therefore be worth considering whether we should shift our focus to legislation on the transport of chemicals in the coming months.
Nevertheless, I would like to lend my express support to Mrs Laperrouze's desire to create a transitional deadline in Annex 6 for the substances that were amended in that annex, because when we started the consultation, we could not predict that they would not be covered by the solution we decided on.
Although it was not possible to consider each individual case in detail, we found a solution - at least for the most common consumer goods, such as washing powder and detergents - that makes consumers aware of the quantities of chemicals these products contain, while also enabling people to use them in the future in the same way as they have done in the past.
Increasingly environmentally friendly technology in the manufacture and use of these products has enabled the quantity of washing-up liquid required to be reduced further and further, so that now, the largest containers found in kitchens are just 300 ml or 500 ml.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a situation such as this one, where we are all in agreement, our debate risks becoming repetitive.
However, we were all convinced that this was necessary if we were to introduce legislation swiftly to obtain an immediate classification of all substances and make a real step towards tougher standards to protect consumer health and - I agree on this point - the health of workers who use these substances in many different sectors, particularly in the more difficult context of a small business.
At an international level, I believe that even the fact that REACH is increasingly being used as a benchmark at international level by other countries, which are using it as a model to adapt their own legislation, is extremely satisfying.
In any case, the provisions relating to the classification of substances that we are about to vote on must be adapted and integrated so that they correspond to the principal regulation on the classification, labelling, and packaging of substances and mixtures without adding any new elements.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, the environment and public health affect every citizen and this legislation is directly connected with both.
The Parliament voted in favour of the REACH system which is now in place and which protects people's health and the environment from the danger of chemicals.
The aim of REACH is to ensure that manufacturers and importers register, classify and authorize chemicals.
Another thing which we were behind and actually succeeded in getting through together with the Council was preventing the proposal for a reduced classification threshold of 10 kg.
If the proposal had gone through, REACH would have been undermined.
However, REACH evaluates and registers only the 30 000 most commonly used chemicals, those with the highest volume.
The other 70 000 chemicals we use would be dealt with under this legislation.
With these two victories under our belt, I can vote in favour of this report.
However, I would really like to emphasise that, although we have not succeeded in including the very hazardous PBT chemicals or a priority list for evaluation here and now, at least we have gained a text that says we will promote this at UN level and that it will be included in the UN system.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, chemicals are a natural and important part of our environment.
The modern world could not function without them.
This proposed regulation, which complements REACH and aligns the EU system for classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures with the UN Globally Harmonised System, is a reasonable and balanced proposal.
In these cases, hazard labelling information should be supplied in some other appropriate manner such as tie-on tags.
I would like to thank particularly the rapporteur, Mrs Sartori, for supporting my amendments and for the excellent work she has done on this report.
While existing regulations on identifying and communicating the hazardous properties of chemicals are similar in many respects, some differences are significant enough to result in different classification, different labelling and safety data sheets (SDS).
The potential but manageable risks involved with chemicals underline the need for our legislation on a globally harmonised approach to packaging and labelling of chemicals, and it is in this respect I am pleased that the Council and Parliament agreed to a text on 27 June, and I congratulate again our rapporteur on the work done on this complex but very important file.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Those who work in chemicals manufacturing will be particularly severely affected.
According to a Finnish study, around 32 million EU citizens are exposed to carcinogenic chemicals in their workplace every day.
It is our duty to ban the most dangerous chemicals and exercise control over all chemicals in general.
The GHS, the Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals, continues and complements REACH.
The GHS aims to pass information about chemicals on to workers and consumers.
The aim is to classify and label the thousands of substances and mixtures which surround us.
The GHS is in fact a UN Convention which we must now implement at EU level.
Once the GHS has been passed - unfortunately not until 2010 for substances and as late as 2015 for mixtures - all chemicals will be easy to identify.
They made a barrage of assurances of their good intentions which may for the moment protect or delude their so-called stakeholders, but which will not satisfy the great number of the unemployed which these measures are already beginning to produce.
A crumb of recognition for public opinion falls from the master's table in the form of Amendments 10, 12, 39 and 42, to place reducing animal experimentation in certain circumstances before adherence to the letter of the legislation.
I rejoice in that, but I deplore the damage which you are inflicting on 27 former democracies, year by disastrous year.
I would echo the concern that SMEs could fall victim, especially if they trade overseas, in which case these costs may well be more than they can bear. (FI) Madam President, the debate on the very recent European Chemicals Regulation, REACH, is still in our memories.
GHS and REACH complement one another and do not just facilitate the work of the producers and distributors of chemicals.
Madam President, the global harmonisation of the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures is to be welcomed, and the European Union should play a leading role in protecting our citizens against dangerous chemicals.
The globally harmonised system is a promising sign of global cooperation in environmental issues.
I have tabled more than 20 amendments in order to ensure the appropriate labelling and safe use of chemicals.
However, the same Environmental Committee also adopted several amendments from the rapporteur which would weaken consumers' rights regarding information on the hazards of the chemicals in products.
My assistant Gergely Simon, who has done much work on this and other dossiers, will leave Parliament in the near future.
I would like to thank him for his contribution to our common goal, which is a chemically safer Europe. (DE) Madam President, we all know that chemicals are produced and traded throughout the world, and the dangers and risks are global too.
I am also pleased that, despite the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety in connection with threshold values for labelling, which was all too industry-friendly - the volumes of data used for the classification should have been included on the label - we managed to limit the damage in the negotiations with the Council and the Commission.
Obviously this topic is going to keep us busy in the future, as there is plenty of room for improvement. (FR) Madam President, there are already global accounting regulations, global food standards in the Codex Alimentarius, global tax standards and UN model double taxation conventions.
There is certainly some value for everyone in global harmonisation - for consumers, users, SMEs - but beyond these 2 000 pages and procedures, annexes and lists, the regulation shows that European standardisation is not enough to deal with globalised problems.
The regulation ties in with REACH, but it also introduces hazard classes and categories.
I greatly appreciate that Amalia Sartori has managed to reach an excellent compromise within Parliament and also with the Council.
In this debate, which was crowned by the adoption by the Economic and Social Council of a globally harmonised system of chemical classification and labelling, all Member States, and not just the UN, played a very active and significant part, particularly the European Union, and also the Commission.
It is therefore good that today we are adapting our regulations on the use of chemicals to conform to this system, while at the same time we are ensuring and wish to ensure that our citizens - EU citizens - are protected and that our environment too is protected from the consequences of the use of hazardous substances, because the aim of this harmonisation, classification and labelling of hazardous substances is meant to be an improvement to the level of health protection, and also to the state of the environment.
As usual, some of my fellow Members are not completely satisfied.
The Sartori report is a fundamental step forward, harmonising the classification of substances and the labelling and packaging standards of hazardous substances and mixtures.
Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Commission and the rapporteurs, because they have managed to bring about a constructive debate on the UN proposal and the REACH plan that we adopted previously, and this has resulted in progress.
Safer use and better choices by consumers create greater safety, so we must establish that this draft legislation is a step forward in this respect and should be welcomed.
Thank you very much for your attention. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Sartori, together with her shadow rapporteurs and the Council and the Commission for reaching an agreement on the GHS package at first reading.
Once the GHS is in operation, firms will be able to operate based on a single classification system for substances, harmonised at international level, and which, among other things, will allow easier access to legislation on substances via the European Chemicals Agency.
With this regulation, which applies international criteria for the classification and labelling of hazardous substances and mixtures in the European Union, we will ensure that our firms are ready to open up to the global market.
The system will in fact introduce seven new risk categories and a new classification for the transport system.
It is for this reason that we need these texts.
Nowhere else are there regulations such as we have introduced, and nowhere else are demands being made of the chemicals industry such as we are making.
Therefore, the Commission strongly believes that, in connection with the horizontal legislation for this sector, we now need a few years in which to put into effect what we have already decided, and that we should not immediately embark on any other major projects.
Personally, I believe they are essential and appropriate, but this omission in the law has not come about by chance.
I share the concerns of those who have voiced their misgivings about animal testing.
I very much hope that this legislation does not lead to an increase in the number of tests on animals.
It is important that testing on primates is absolutely prohibited in connection with this legislation.
The Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), developed in 2002 at UN level with active participation by the EU, is to be implemented this year by all Member States.
