I presume that this agreement will cover scientific and technological research in the Kaesong Industrial Zone jointly administered by North and South Korea, and in that I am sure the Republic of Korea will welcome our commitment that is currently withheld by Washington.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the European Parliament's Committee on Development on the human rights situation of the Dalits in India.
The treatment of the Dalits in India presents some serious human rights concerns.
The largest group of these 'untouchables' live in India, where more than 160 million people are affected.
This is why I intend to vote in favour of this resolution which insists on the Indian Government stepping up its efforts in effectively stamping out caste-based discrimination and in promoting equal opportunities.
in writing. (PT) The new Partnership Agreement with the Gabonese Republic, which entered into force on 3 December 2005, is valid for six years and contains a protocol that will lead to a 40% reduction in the fishing opportunities available to the various fleets of the EU Member States operating in these waters, including the Portuguese fleet.
I am also glad that the development needs of coastal populations are addressed. (NL) Mr President, I have, needless to say, voted in favour of the resolution on a worldwide moratorium on the death penalty, because I am a staunch opponent of capital punishment, not least at a personal level.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the joint motion for a resolution that was tabled by five political groups and that concerns an initiative in favour of a universal moratorium on the death penalty.
in writing. - (FR) There is a long list of countries that permit the death penalty, and the list of victims is longer still.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my fellow Member, Mrs Ries, on a European dimension for the prevention of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases.
The number of people in Europe who suffer from obesity has increased spectacularly over the last 30 years.
This development is comparable to what happened in the United States during the 1990s: today, in Europe, 27% of men and 38% of women are classed as overweight or obese.
The European Parliament's proposals are based on healthy eating, physical activity and treatment from childhood and throughout adulthood.
More than 5 million children (in the EU-25) are obese and around 300 000 new cases come to light every year.
in writing. - (FR) It is to its credit that, in order to combat excessive weight, obesity and chronic diseases, the European Commission is concerned that everyone should have a healthy diet and engage in physical activity.
The marathon motion for a resolution, with its 18 recitals and 53 paragraphs, produced by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety is, however, unacceptable inasmuch as it proposes provisions recommending dubious interference in the competences of the Member States, partly in the form of a Community legislative framework.
In the fight to promote healthy eating habits and the use of high-quality products, we have high-calibre allies in the form of the Eurochefs - an association bringing together 4 000 cooks from 17 Member States who stick to a code of honour, championing the intrinsic quality of food and acting to safeguard rural products.
in writing. (DE) The fact of the matter is that we all know what is healthy and what is not, even without labels prescribed by the EU, yet our eating and living habits have changed to such a degree that obesity, with all its consequences for our health, has assumed disturbing proportions.
Long-term bad eating habits and a lack of sufficient exercise result in thousands of people in the European Union being faced with obesity every year.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by Mrs Wallis, which contains a range of recommendations on limitation periods in cross-border disputes involving injuries and fatal accidents.
There are limitation periods that vary from as little as 12 months in some countries to 30 years or more in others.
It is important that any new legislation in this area is based on sound evidence, not least to ensure that any future law brings forward specific and focused measures to tackle the problems.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Flasarová on educational discrimination against young women and girls.
I voted in favour of this report as it seeks to address the inequalities for women which still persist, mainly in gaining access to and obtaining higher academic qualifications, including at postgraduate level and in scientific research, and in the area of lifelong learning.
in writing. - (FR) The progress made when it comes to equality between men and women in the field of education is mainly quantitative.
I therefore voted in favour of the report by Mrs Flasarová, which recommends to the Commission and the Member States that they put in place a policy targeted at national, ethnic and cultural minorities, ensuring in particular that a multicultural approach is adopted and permitting access to high-quality education, and this with a view to preventing two-fold discrimination.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by United Kingdom MEP Mr Deva on EU relations with the Pacific Islands, calling for a strategy for a strengthened partnership.
in writing. - (FR) After 30 years of EU-Pacific cooperation, it is now time to move up a gear.
Most of the proposals of the countries in the region have been rejected by the Commission.
In view of the fact that some EU Member States have a historical relationship and continued links with this region, either in political or in cultural and economic terms, the EU as a whole should strengthen these ties for the mutual benefit of both the countries in the region and EU Member States.
in writing. - (FR) In the Pacific Ocean, fishing constitutes a vital resource for the local economies, and ships from all over the world, and in particular from Europe, operate there.
The strategy in question was designed, in particular, to strengthen the political dialogue between the EU and the Pacific islands.
The report contains some very interesting proposals, for example to allow SMEs with capital of EUR 10 000 to have a single entity that can develop in all European countries without having to register in each Member State, and whereby one single set of European rules is observed, rather than various national regulations.
I voted in favour of this report as the public hearing held in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 22 June 2006 underscored the need for an European Private Company as a legal form for small and medium-sized undertakings engaged in cross-border business.
