Road Map for renewable energy in Europe (debate) The next item is the report by Britta Thomsen, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on a Road Map for renewable energy in Europe.
I am pleased that we are now placing renewable energy high on the agenda, as renewable energy will constitute a vital cornerstone for Europe in demonstrating to the rest of the world that we can actually fight climate change and secure energy supplies for our citizens.
I consider my report an opportunity for Parliament to both influence the shaping of impending legislation on renewable energy and at the same time ensure that the Heads of State or Government and the Commission are aware that the ambitious targets that have been adopted require significant and genuine effort if they are not to simply end up as empty promises.
We shall compel the Member States to implement already adopted legislation and decisions, and guarantee a long-term perspective that encourages investors to become involved in this huge venture.
The energy sector must no longer simply be regarded as a technical element in our everyday lives, but more as a joint player in resolving the problems involving the environment, climate and security of supply.
In the report, I have also underlined the importance of incorporating energy efficiency within the National Action Plans.
Several people have pointed out to me that their separate action plans for energy efficiency do not belong in this report.
However, I feel that it is precisely the establishment of this link that is fundamental, because otherwise it will be a purely Sisyphean task if we continually increase our energy consumption whilst simultaneously attempting to achieve a relative target of 20% renewable energy.
We must constantly maintain the perspective that investments in renewable energy are an asset to Europe.
I would like to encourage us to really move forwards within Parliament and adopt a comprehensive approach towards the transport sector, which also secures political objectives concerning the expansion of public transport and the switch from road to rail and waterborne transport.
We must not allow a message to be sent to the car industry to focus on bio-fuels instead of more efficient cars Secondly, we must establish requirements concerning sustainability criteria that ensure a marked reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and concerning the view that an increase in demand for biomass can be compatible with the preservation of biodiversity.
Furthermore, a focus on biofuels must not lead to a marked increase in food prices.
Last but not least, we must emphasise that biofuels are not the only way in which renewable energy can be used in the transport sector.
I hope that we will have a good debate today and that collectively Parliament can send a signal to the Commission and the Member States concerning the importance of achieving the EU's targets for renewable energy.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate Ms Thomsen on her excellent report.
Therefore, Ms Thomsen's report will play a crucial role in the formulation of the Commission's proposal for promotion of the use of renewable energy that I intend to present to the College by the end of this year.
We will continue the integrated approach from the January package to ensure consistency between renewable energy and climate change policies, and create synergies between them.
You rightly pointed out the importance of reaching an agreement soon on assigning a share to each Member State to achieve the 20% binding target for the whole EU in 2020.
National action plans submitted by each Member State and approved by the Commission should contain the national sectoral targets, the development paths in each sector and measures to be taken in order to reach these targets.
Many heating and cooling renewable technologies are highly economical and there is a lot of potential in this area.
The 20% target of the renewable energy in the final EU energy consumption will only be met by renewable energy.
Honourable Members, you have been our strong support in creating a European response to the global energy challenge.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank Mrs Thomsen for her balanced report.
On the other hand, biofuels imported from third countries should also be certified according to strict environmental criteria, in order to ensure a positive environmental balance.
When we promote biofuels we must not allocate the available resources primarily to research into second-generation biofuels.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) The European Council of March 2007 adopted an agreement that the European Union should generate part of its total energy mix from renewable energy sources.
The report calls on the Commission to submit a proposal for renewable energy framework legislation and emphasises the importance of creating and implementing Renewables Action Plans at Community and national levels.
Mrs Thomsen and I have drafted an amendment to her report on this very subject.
Renewables have been part of the energy mix in Europe and part of European energy policy for a number of years and this report very usefully highlights why they have not yet expanded to their full potential.
I particularly welcome paragraph 38, which stresses the need for compulsory use of renewable technologies in all new and renovated buildings.
It is time for a major revision of the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive, not least because the renewables roadmap needs to be considered hand in hand with the EU's action plan on energy efficiency.
The binding target of 20% EU energy from renewables by 2020 is much more likely to be met if we succeed in cutting total EU energy consumption.
Finally, this roadmap for renewable energy should not just be a roadmap for Europe.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, speaking on behalf of the UEN Group in this debate concerning renewable energy in Europe, I would like to thank Mrs Thomsen for preparing a complex report on this subject.
It will be interesting for us Members of the European Parliament to see how the European Commission deals with this opposition.
Thirdly, the strategic objectives for renewable energy, namely the generation of 20% of total energy from renewable sources and achieving a 20% energy efficiency improvement by 2020, are deserving of attention and support.
I would like to express the hope that, in order to achieve these ambitious objectives, the European Commission will propose introducing appropriate support instruments not just at EU level, but also in Member States.
The time for renewable energy sources has come, and only a boom in renewable energy, together with much greater energy efficiency, can help us cope with the climate change crisis and the energy supply crisis.
The debate on biofuels raises a moral issue and a question of principle: to eat or to drive?
If we approve a binding target of 10% for biofuels in this report, we must be aware that we are fuelling a conflict between 800 million car drivers, on the one hand, and 2 000 million of the poorest people on earth, who are competing for the same grain.
And we do not even know whether the energy balance is positive.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, according to a forecast by the International Energy Agency, oil will become an extremely scarce natural resource in five years' time.
The aim to raise the share of renewable energy resources to 20%, in other words triple it, by 2020 seems way too ambitious.
On the other hand, the European Parliament had previously decided to ask for still more: 25% by 2020 and as much as 50% by 2040.
The Commission's proposal for 20% refers to an EU average.
If the 20% target set in the directive is to be achieved it will depend on how willing and able the big Member States' are to increase the use of renewable energy.
Biofuels are only sustainable if the whole cycle from producer to user has the lowest possible impact on the environment.
This means that biomass must be not only produced sustainably but also burned sustainably.
For example, in the region I represent, the Severn Tidal Power proposal has huge potential for electricity generation but an equally huge cost.
As I said, it is a good report, and it is also an important and necessary one.
You know that the Commission is currently preparing a framework directive to implement the spring Summit decisions on achieving a target of 20% of renewables by the year 2020.
Firstly, we have successful directives, especially on electricity but also on biofuels.
So the important thing now is to take up and to strengthen and improve those successful directives, as pointed out in the Thomsen report.
It is most important to decide how the 20% are to be assigned among the Member States.
That really means we must ensure a fair distribution of burdens, or rather opportunities, a distribution that really is based only on potential and on what has already been achieved, what already exists in the countries concerned.
The continuing increase in the prices of oil and gas could be helpful for the achievement of the objectives listed.
The European Union has only about 2% of the world's gas and oil resources.
For this reason the objective of 20% of energy from renewable sources seems unsatisfactory.
I must seriously warn the Commissioner against adopting that strategy, which would benefit only major, dominant energy firms such as E.ON, RWE, EDF and others, because it would lead to investment uncertainty and make other players reluctant to invest in future.
You will be judged on whether there is local investment, which should be on the basis of a comprehensively guaranteed security and not the kind of haphazard mechanism of green certificates. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Europe must work harder on developing renewable energy resources, whether because other resources are diminishing rapidly or because in the whole energy mix renewable energy sources represent an important tool for lowering emissions.
Indeed, energy from renewable sources is still not cheap; many countries or consumers simply cannot afford it. (DE) Mr President, in March 2007 the European Council, headed by our Chancellor Angela Merkel, decided that 20% of total energy consumption should come from renewables by the year 2020.
The following points are particularly important here.
We must also do more than before to introduce renewables in the heating and cooling sector, given that 40% of total energy used in the EU is used in buildings.
Here, as stated in paragraph 57 of the report, we must ensure that biomass is managed according to internationally recognised high standards of sustainability.
In particular, we must further encourage and promote the development of storing renewable energy sources, for example on the basis of hydrogen technology.
The report presents an analysis of the situation that is both correct and balanced.
Nevertheless, the limited existing legislation has proved effective in stimulating more sustainable development in many of the Member States, despite the fact that in such important areas as heating and cooling, there is still no legislation at all.
Finally, both the Commission and the Member States must continue to promote investment, innovation and research in these sectors.
If we go on increasing our energy needs indiscriminately and seemingly in a limitless fashion, then, irrespective of how many road maps on renewable energy we draw up, all will be ineffective in the end. (FR) Mr President, if we mean to tackle global warming and to translate this ambitious road map into practice, it is absolutely essential that we make the link between energy and environment.
Of course, we have warned repeatedly that the Member States will not achieve the target of a 12% share for renewable energy by 2010.
So how can we expect them to achieve 20% by 2020?
The Commission's method of development calculation fails to take into account the environmental costs of energy production and we continue to produce energy policies piecemeal, whereas what we need is an integrated, comprehensive approach.
And what about those Member States that finance the cultivation of biofuels in countries in the South?
The energy crisis, Mr President, is an environmental crisis; it calls for emergency plans and binding policy measures.
We need to pull out all the stops on renewable energy. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, as we speak the Kyoto targets are being discussed in Washington and I believe the UN is right to discuss these global targets and to set targets as part of a top-down strategy, as well as creating the necessary instruments.
I believe that in terms also of security of supply it is important to focus on renewables.
We should ensure that we really do achieve the target of renewables accounting for 20% of our final energy consumption by the year 2020.
Opportunities for new technologies and clean and renewable energy.
Some biofuels are very detrimental to biodiversity and to food prices.
I agree with the paragraph in Britta's report which says that clear criteria must apply to this 10% level of biofuels in the energy mix.
In my report on the Fuel Quality Directive I put forward proposals on this and I look forward to hearing your reactions.
We must be careful not to replace our addiction to oil with a new addiction to subsidies. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank the rapporteur for presenting this report.
If we take account of those three factors in each of these debates, we will realise quite soon that renewables naturally play a part, probably an important part, in the future shape of energy, but that this sector alone cannot resolve the problem of energy supplies in terms of price formation, environmental impact or security of supplies.
I thank the Commission for its very open and differentiated approach. (FI) Mr President, we cannot cut carbon dioxide emissions in line with our targets unless we employ the twin strategies of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
We need binding country-specific energy efficiency targets and targets for renewable energies.
The rapporteur is absolutely right when she focuses attention on two very practical matters with regard to how we achieve these targets within the European Union.
We must insist that the Member States with large populations and which at present produce a very small part of their energy using renewable energy sources should close this gap.
Only in this way will we get investors and sponsors, as well as industry, involved.
Regarding biofuels, we need to speak in favour of second generation biofuels and not as if we were promoting competition between food and fuel. (ES) Mr President, the decision of the Heads of State and Government to approve a binding target of 20% for renewable energy sources in our energy mix for 2020 has had a great impact throughout the world and constitutes a milestone in Community policies on climate change and energy use.
Tomorrow Parliament will be voting on the corresponding report, in which we express our support for the proposals of the Council and Commission for future legislation in this field.
The target of deriving 20% of our energy mix from renewable sources will be economically viable only if two conditions are met: the price of a barrel of oil remains high and the price of a tonne of CO2 is suitably dissuasive.
The current price fluctuates by 12 to 15 cents.
At the same time, however, several Members have made the point that technological progress is needed, because the new Members States and poorer Member States in particular perceive the use of solar power, wind power or - in the case of my country, where thermal springs abound - geothermal energy, to be extremely expensive.
I would ask Commissioner Piebalgs to urge the Commission to consider carefully how these technologies might be stimulated in Europe, perhaps also by means of tenders.
As regards the agricultural sector, biofuels are very important, and I agree with Mrs Myller that we must not create a situation that pits biofuel production against the food industry and food production.
I believe, therefore, that we need to take a diversified approach on this issue. (SL) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, renewable sources of energy meet two major challenges: firstly, the challenge of securing a reliable supply of energy, in that they provide diversity and reduce reliance on imports and, secondly, the challenge of climate change, in that they do not cause direct releases of greenhouse gases.
Renewables are a subject which scores political points.
I believe that we should not deal with renewable sources in isolation.
We must assess their advantages and weaknesses alongside other sources of energy.
However, if we do, if we do carry out an overall analysis, the barriers between the various sources of energy will be removed since only a heterogeneous, lasting energy mix will be important. (ES) Mr President, almost everyone agrees that we in the European Union are facing three basic challenges: the first is the exhaustion and rising price of conventional energy sources; the second is the need to reduce our growing dependence on energy imports; and the third is to help hold back climate change.
First, renewable energies are not incompatible with other energy sources that can help stabilise supply, but they must be the preferred option.
If you would allow me, I would like to make three points.
It is very important, of course, that we look at the national targets, but as an overall approach we must look at it from a common perspective.
In my remaining time, these are my three points: firstly, we need a common energy policy, secondly we need fair burden-sharing and, thirdly, we need to be very careful with the methodology for calculation. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
Considering the challenges posed by climate change, our high dependency on fossil fuels and the growing challenge of creating rural jobs, the European Union needs a clear, easy-to-follow regulatory system enabling it to operate effectively as regards renewable energy production, and especially as regards biomass production.
A long-term, well thought-out programme is needed, because otherwise producers will see this new type of production as too big a gamble.
We must guarantee security of production, but we cannot expect consumers to pay the higher retail prices.
We must provide appropriate incentives to ensure that biofuel production will not bring about a rise in food prices, because this would undermine the whole programme.
The research effort on new technology and renewable energies for transport needs to be stepped up dramatically.
And they require bold and resolute action. (LT) The thorough report by my colleague Mrs Thomsen will help us live in a cleaner environment and resist climate change.
Ambitious action plans on renewable energy at European and national level as well as monitoring of their implementation will be included in the Common European Energy Policy and reduce dependency on energy supplies from third countries.
Human beings have harmed the planet and it is therefore our responsibility to help it recover. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy supplies are becoming an increasingly serious challenge, not just for the European Union but worldwide.
We must support and promote innovation.
We must use the opportunity offered by the decentralised production of energy and biofuels from renewables because it can also produce sustainable energy and use raw materials that are available on the ground.
The suspension of set-aside in the 2008 financial year is, therefore, really welcome.
Furthermore, the use of renewable raw materials can contribute substantially to the economic development of rural areas because of its positive impact not only on land use during normal crop rotation but also, in particular, on employment and the creation of new jobs in rural areas. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
We must bear in mind that the ambitious goals to which the European Union has committed itself, aimed at reducing emissions of gases responsible for the greenhouse effect, increasing the use of renewable sources of energy and enhancing energy efficiency, can only be achieved if we implement them in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, beginning with social and economic actors at local and regional level.
Decentralised energy policy, hand in hand with research programmes and campaigns aimed at changing consumer habits, could bring tangible results not only in terms of use of renewable energy sources but also in terms of employment and regional development.
By supporting partnerships between the public and private sectors, the European Union could help public and private-sector players in society to join together to provide an economic shot in the arm for regions whose development they would like to stimulate.
Member States have an obligation to create a legal environment that not only enables increased energy efficiency and use of renewable energy, but also provides every possible economic support and incentive to foster local and regional development initiatives. (LV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the targets put forward in Europe's energy strategy is to increase the proportion of total energy consumption accounted for by renewable energy resources to 20% by 2020.
Latvia is a leader in this sphere, since the proportion of renewable energy in Latvia is already 37%.
The approach taken by the European Commission when allocating CO2 emissions quotas was, at the very least, strange.
The new Member States are meeting their Kyoto commitments, but their emissions quotas are being significantly reduced.
For example, Latvia, which has the lowest CO2 emissions quota per inhabitant in the European Union, will receive only 55% of the emissions quota it requested.
Estonia and Lithuania will receive 52 and 53% respectively.
I welcome the position taken by the rapporteur on the allocation of additional EU budget resources for achieving the targets of the European energy strategy, establishing this field as a priority and revising the EU Financial Framework for 2007-2013.
Despite this fiasco, at the spring summit in 2007 the German Presidency set Member States the even more ambitious goal of increasing the contribution of renewable energy to 20% by 2020.
For this reason, the targets set in the Renewable Energy Road Map need to be followed by detailed implementation plans with defined national targets and binding sub-targets for each energy sector, as well as sanctions should the targets not be met.
Europe has a historical obligation and must demonstrate by its own example that there is life beyond fossil fuels, that competitive technology exists and that secure self-sufficiency is possible. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on two points in Mrs Thomsen's report.
The solution must be far more complex.
That is why I want to stress some aspects that are, in my opinion, missing from the report in question.
Firstly, the individual Member States are responsible for their own energy policy and the corresponding right to have their own energy mix.
We have a rather nice situation today, because, at USD 80 per barrel of oil, we have an exchange rate going up to EUR 1.4.
There is potential in the Member States that are not rich, at least in GDP per capita terms.
The richer countries could invest in the countries where there is more potential, because, as a result, we will all benefit by having new technology which powers us from clean energy sources.
I quoted Gordon Brown not because of any political affiliation.
I quoted that, even the UK, where today there is not so much penetration of renewable energy, there are calls for this policy - meaning this attitude - and that we need binding targets because, to achieve a long-lasting policy goal, only binding targets matter.
People are eating better: in India, in China, in third world countries as well.
So, it is well done and I would like to again thank the rapporteur and all the rapporteurs in the political groups and different committees, because I think it is well done.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 25 September 2007.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (SK) The present situation regarding power generation and climate change is giving rise not only to positive solutions but also to rushed decisions, which may ultimately have many adverse effects.
Nuclear energy is a good example.
in writing. - Finland is one of the world's leading countries in utilising renewable energy sources, especially bioenergy.
The share of renewable energy in Finland is ca. 25%.
In the fight against the climate change, the availability of reasonable priced bio mass, vital for our forest industry, must be ensured.
I therefore find it very important that Member States are free to choose the most appropriate renewable energy sources given the differences in geological, hydrological and climatic conditions in the Member States.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, if we are to promote renewable energy sources we have to be precise about what need we are aiming to meet by using them.
in writing. - (DE) Renewables must play a significant role in our future energy policy.
In March the European Council agreed to cover 20% of the EU's total energy demand through renewables by the year 2020.
In so doing, the Heads of State and Government took an important step and spoke out clearly in favour of giving more support to renewable energy sources.
in writing. - (RO) Today, the EU depends 57% on gas importation and 82% on oil imports.
In order to limit climate changes, the EU has planned for the renewable energy resources to provide 20% of the European energy consumption by 2020.
