It is very important that in the European Union we try to simplify the environment for companies to flourish and to create growth for the European economy.
In most cases, publication in the national gazette entails additional costs for the companies without providing any real added value.
The objective of this proposal is therefore to remove any additional publication requirements in national law that cause additional costs to the companies.
Anyhow, the Commission leaves flexibility for Member States concerning these additional publication requirements.
Member States should all have electronic platforms containing the full information and providing access to this information in the companies' electronic file in the register.
The most important thing is to introduce the single fee set by the Member States that covers all the costs related to the publication and administration requirements.
This also leads to benefits for companies by achieving a certain reduction in costs while ensuring the reliability of the translations.
Let me recall that the European Parliament, in its resolution of 12 December 2007 on the Commission Work Programme 2008, welcomed the Commission's determination to reach the goal of a 25% reduction in administrative burdens on undertakings at EU and national levels by 2012.
Furthermore, in its resolution of 21 May 2008 on a simplified business environment, Parliament supported this specific proposal for modifications to the First Company Law Directive, agreeing that it should be easier for companies to publish statutory information.
The Commission's impact assessment estimated the reduction potential at about EUR 600 million per year.
Our committee believes - as the Committee on Legal Affairs, in my opinion quite rightly, believes - that, in addition to companies, there are also citizens who also have the right to know.
I therefore consider, Commissioner, as do the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, that the electronic platform must be compulsory and quite rightly so.
I therefore consider that, as the representative of the Commission, and I believe that we should send the Council the same message, you must take serious account of the position which we expressed unanimously in the Committee on Legal Affairs and by a large majority in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Mr President, the European Council in March 2008 ordered new, fast-track legislative initiatives to be taken in order to improve the business environment for companies in the Union by reducing administrative obligations and costs.
It is the will of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as already formulated, that plenary adopt the report by Mrs Kauppi, whom I congratulate on her work.
The proposed directive is part of the wider action undertaken to reduce the administrative burden on companies, to reduce the restrictions upon them and increase their competitiveness.
Commissioner, you know that the citizens' views have to be taken into account and that Europe must not appear to be a source of new restrictions or difficulties.
As previous speakers have said, this Parliament has a duty to bring down to earth the Commission's very generous and very altruistic proposals.
In the case of the 1st Directive, the elimination from national law of all additional disclosure requirements which increase enterprise costs seems very appropriate indeed.
The proposal relating to the 11th Company Law Directive concerns the translation and certification of documents to be entered into the commercial register of a branch of a company established in a different Member State.
The mutual recognition of translations proposed by the Commission as a way of reducing the administrative burden will undoubtedly contribute to reducing the costs borne by companies, while ensuring the reliability of the translations.
We are not undermining the Commission's proposal.
We are not undermining the proposal, we are improving it.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me begin by saying that if Ieke van den Burg had raised this issue this morning, I gladly would have dealt with it.
There are estimates of what this proposal would achieve: reducing the cost annually by EUR 600 million.
As I pointed out in my earlier remarks, the whole project of reducing costs has been welcomed by the European Parliament in various resolutions.
With the idea of bringing down administrative costs and simplification for smaller business we came up with this particular proposal.
You can hardly expect me then to accept amendments by the European Parliament that go in totally the opposite direction by not reducing administrative costs but increasing them.
No reduction in the current administrative burden would be achieved by the savings which we expected from our original proposal, which have been assessed, as I said, in the impact statement, at around EUR 600 million per annum.
I think that it would be very disappointing if Council does not have a qualified majority behind it and does not come up with proposals on how to reach a compromise.
