Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 22 February, ETA struck again in a brutal attack in Spain with the murder of Fernando Buesa Blanco, the General Secretary of the Socialist Party of Vizcaya and the spokesman of the Socialist Party of the Basque Parliament, and Jorge Díez Elorza, his bodyguard.
These men paid with their lives for their commitment to democracy.
I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe one minute' s silence in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco and Jorge Díez Elorza. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I want to thank you for your statement last Tuesday and for your words today in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco.
This process may take a long time but it is unstoppable and, what is more, desirable.
In a debate within the Socialist Party on the Irish process, someone said: "In the end, the key to the Irish solution was that everyone involved had the following thought: does it really matter whether we are Irish or British?
On the contrary, we must take strength from knowing that the only social division which exists in the Basque Country is the abyss which separates those who kill, and those who support and express understanding for the latter, from the vast majority of the Basque people who simply want to live in peace and freedom. (Loud applause) Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I must indicate my complete and categorical condemnation of the terrorist attack on 22 February in Vitoria which took the lives of the socialist MP and spokesman in the Basque parliament, Fernando Buesa, and his bodyguard, Jorge Díez.
We pray that these are the last victims in a process which, as you said, Madam President, has seen much barbarism.
We are not just confined to Brussels or Strasbourg.
Let us all go back to our respective nations and shout from the rooftops that our belief in democracy and our indignation are not just words, but a demonstration of our actual political commitment.
Fourthly, we express our repulsion at the fact that this dual assassination was intended to directly destroy the political process aimed at achieving peace in the Basque Country.
We, Euskal Herritarrok, have regretted many times the loss of human lives.
Twenty years have passed since the Northern Ireland question was first raised in this Parliament.
May I ask: Quousque tandem - Noiz arte?
Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor.
I wonder if you are now in a position to confirm to Parliament that the Quaestors have agreed in principle that the register should be published on the Internet and, if so, whether you will personally set them a deadline - perhaps 1 April - for doing so.
In this context, activity-based management is the key to ensuring coherence between objectives, actions and resources.
We are going to create a management and control system in every Directorate-General.
In fact, the Commission desires this reform in order to become a model of excellence for the whole of Europe and the world.
I would stress that this style of debate is something very new and, in my opinion, it has forced us to radically change our way of thinking as well.
We may need to come back to you and ask for additional resources to fund the new tasks which have been assigned to us and those which will be assigned to us in the future.
The Commission wishes to be judged on results and results alone - on what we achieve.
Parliament and the Council are also called upon to take up all the challenges presented by these reforms.
I am glad to be here together with President Prodi and my colleague, Michele Schreyer, to present the White Paper adopted by the Commission this morning: "Reforming the Commission" .
Together with Romano Prodi, I express my gratitude to this House and to the very large number of people who have put time and effort into giving us their constructive responses.
The White Paper puts reform in its proper political context.
The treaties have been revised, new managerial tasks have been attributed by this Parliament and by the Council to the Commission, and many other changes of great significance have occurred in our Union, in our continent and in the world.
All institutions in the European Union will have to face up to the issues posed by the reform and face up to them honestly and responsibly.
I do not make this point because of any desire in the Prodi Commission to retreat from activities or responsibilities.
That means closing any significant gap between obligations and operational resources either by reducing activities or by increasing means or by a combination of both.
In each of the three pillars of reform, the active support and cooperation of this House will be absolutely vital.
And finally, in the crucial area of financial management where the Court of Auditors, the Committee of Independent Experts and other external and internal analyses have strongly advised radical change, the support of this House in implementing the recommendations for full security of money and value for money will be of prime importance.
I have no doubt that we will do that on several occasions in the coming months and years, and I certainly look forward to the questions of honourable Members this afternoon.
Recently, the immunity of a former Commissioner was lifted and proceedings are currently pending before a judge in Brussels on the basis that Brussels is the seat of the Community institutions.
In the particular case that the honourable Member has in mind, not only did the Commission easily and quickly come to a decision to waive the immunity of a former Commissioner, but the former Commissioner herself advised the Commission of her desire that the immunity should be lifted.
I can see the complexities that concern the honourable Member, but I say to him that in the last five years there have been ten cases in which there have been requests from national legal authorities for the immunity of 26 officials to be lifted, and every single one of those requests has been met, and met with alacrity.
And I make the point, before I move to my questions, that what happens concerning the Staff Regulations in the Commission has a fundamental role on our responsibility also as employers of staff because, of course, the European Parliament staff operate under the same conditions.
And if we look at the original proposals - and I suspect that we will see the same in the new ones - it was not until 2002 that we were going to complete overall reform of the Staff Regulations.
Indeed, it was not until 2001 that some of the key elements of appraisal were going to be introduced.
On the second part of Mr Harbour' s question, he will see in the course of this year how with greater precision we will be showing how the application more extensively of information technology will facilitate change, not only in terms of the working practices and conditions of the staff but in the operation of the Commission, as the President briefly outlined in his statement.
I would like to make one last point in answer to Mr Harbour.
I wish I could honestly say to him that we will be compiling and providing in the form of proposals communications before 2001 and certainly be putting them into effect before 2002, but he will be aware there are legally required consultation procedures and periods which we must respect.
I would like everything to happen much more quickly.
I hope that, in terms of the degree of cooperation and partnership that we can enjoy in all aspects of this policy with the Council and with Parliament, not only will we get rapid implementation of policy development in the most effective way, but that we will be able to do it by coordination at the right time which will produce the maximum benefit for the Union.
Secondly, on the question of ex ante and ex post auditing and procedures, do I understand correctly - and I have not had the opportunity to wade into the detail of the paper - that the unanimous decision of the Commission is indeed to empower the Directorates-General to liberate them from the ex ante visae system but to put in their place a strong ex post and independent and centralised audit system?
It will not be just one of the screenings that the Commission has periodically undertaken but a very thorough and sharp review within Directorates-General and across the Commission for which we have established a mechanism for reviewing the demands on us and the means that we have to meet those demands.
I would emphasise, too, that the intention is not only to liberate the personnel of the Commission - that is certainly an objective - but it is simultaneously to "responsibilise" - it is an appalling word but we all know what it means.
In undertaking such a development in our organisation I am certain that we can match or even advance upon the success and increase in job motivation which has come as a consequence of similar developments in several administrations, both in the public sector and in the private sector, in the last decade or so.
I think that the end of the centralised system will certainly not result in any relaxation of effective financial control but will increase its effectiveness and its relationship to operational tasks.
So, the changes that we seek to make - as I say consistent with the very strong and clear recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts - are not negative in any way at all.
There will also be evidence of the fact that we have taken heed of the representations made in this House particularly in the Committee on Budgetary Control, and that is significant in respect of the use of ex ante visas in Directorates-General.
If that is felt in a Directorate-General to be a relevant and effective way of enhancing financial control, the ex ante system can be used.
But, on this issue, I do not see any room for soft law which is why in the transition period there will be total adherence to the current financial regulation until that law is changed by due democratic process in this House and in the Council.
Two other points I must make, because this is an essential question central to reform.
Irresponsibility because the feeling exists in some quarters that there will not be sufficient control and discipline.
In the course of the coming years I will be continuing the practice I have already started, together with several of my Commission colleagues obviously, of very profound discussions with the administrations of the incoming new Member States.
The other question I would like to ask is on the audit progress committee.
In order however to strip back those obligations to their minimum, we are not just talking about it; we will be appointing in the very near future a deputy secretary-general, an additional deputy secretary-general with the specific mandate and mission of identifying best practices and spreading them throughout the Commission and of ensuring a radical reduction in the procedures which generate so much paper, so much bureaucracy and I must say so much frustration, not only for the citizens and businesses of the Union but for the people who work for the Commission too.
Much has happened since the last time I was here to talk about foreign and security policy issues in our continent.
This afternoon I should like to share with you some ideas, particularly on the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
In recent months, since the last time I appeared before you, important events have occurred in this House and also in the European Union.
Chechnya has also been one of our main concerns and I will speak briefly on this at the end, in the light of an important conversation which I had this morning with the Council of Europe representative, Mr Álvaro Gil-Robles, on his recent visit to the region.
However, I realise that you asked me here to talk to you more specifically about foreign policy and particularly security policy in Europe since Helsinki.
This basically involves relations between the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance and relations between the European Union and those countries which, although geographically in Europe, are not part of the European Union, or at least not at the moment.
I will restrict myself to these three points in order to bring you up to date with events.
Firstly, with regard to the decision-making bodies, the Political and Security Committee met for the first time this morning, 1 March 2000.
Therefore, two months after the Helsinki declaration and decision, a Political and Security Committee meeting has taken place for the first time within the European Union.
The fifteen countries have appointed diplomatic experts at ambassador level in order to tackle one of the most important issues which we will face in the coming months.
Secondly, the Military Committee, which represents the various Chiefs of Staff of the fifteen countries, will hold its first meeting on 7 March which will be just over two months after the Helsinki declaration.
Mozambique is surely an excellent current example of how intervention may be required in terms of military logistics, not for military purposes, but with strictly humanitarian ends.
In less than two months we have established the mechanics for cooperation with the Commission.
I must thank Commissioner Patten who is here today for his support and the tremendous energy that he has also invested in trying to ensure that all these issues could be settled in such a short time.
This is a major operation and an important objective but I can say that we are in a position to meet this challenge which the Heads of State and Government posed in Helsinki.
On Monday, just two days ago, in Sintra, a beautiful city very close to Lisbon, the Defence Ministers of the fifteen Member States met and took some important decisions towards implementing this Headline Goal defined in Helsinki.
The proposed timetable is tight but essential and will require great determination from all of us, including this House.
Before 24 March we will therefore have established this timetable so that the General Affairs Council can, on this date, do its job and do it well.
Secondly, we must look at the capacity which each country has so that this total force of 60 000 soldiers is distributed in an orderly and efficient manner between the fifteen countries.
Thirdly, we must look at the differences between the Headline Goal and what each country can provide.
I would like to say that in the meantime there will be at least four European Councils, those in Lisbon and Feira and two during the French presidency.
The European Union must carry out this whole operation in collaboration with the third countries to which I have referred which, although geographically in Europe, are not members of the European Union.
In this respect we are also working closely and positively with the Commission.
However, before this happens, I must tell you about a telephone conversation which I had a few hours ago with the Council of Europe representative on the subject of Chechnya.
Madam President, this is the second time we have had occasion to enter into discussion with the High Representative Javier Solana, and I would like to begin by addressing a few words to the Commission' s representative, Chris Patten.
I hope, Commissioner Patten, that you will still have the opportunity to evaluate our discussion.
Mr Solana, you mentioned Sintra.
However, the rhetoric our governments in the countries of the European Union are using must be followed up with deeds.
Several governments are cutting back on their budgets and also their defence capability.
Please encourage the governments in the countries of the European Union to put their money where their mouth is, so that we are not left with rhetoric and less security at the end of the day, but rather we have a more secure Europe. (Applause) Now our American friends have expressed some concerns, and I emphasise "our American friends" for we do want a North Atlantic Alliance between the USA and Europe that operates in an amicable manner and on the basis of equal rights.
For only if we pull together within the European Union and live in harmony will we also be able to set an example for peace and the peaceful resolution of conflicts outside the European Union.
My friend Jacques Poos will be talking about this on behalf of my Group.
The KFOR forces have made, and are making, an invaluable contribution, but tanks and fire trenches cannot deal with political problems and ethnic conflicts in the longer term.
This is therefore a test of credibility for the Union' s common foreign and security policy.
When it comes to the Balkans and Kosovo, I also hope that the Council will comply with Parliament' s and, as I understand it, also the Commission' s demands for a multiannual budget for operations in Kosovo.
Mr President, Mr Solana, you have the full support and confidence of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, but we would remind you of the huge responsibility which now rests upon your shoulders.
You are building castles in the air and your route map up to the year 2003 calls for 60 000 soldiers.
I am not a warmonger, but if we do not have soldiers to stop the criminals in Kosovo, then what is the point in having soldiers at all?
He is not always right, but in this case he is.
If a civilian task force can, at the same time, intervene before and during a conflict and if we fail to take that step, we are behaving like children who like to play at sending in soldiers, but who are incapable of sending in civilians.
As long as we do not have a balance between the military and the civilian elements, we shall not be credible.
What my Group deplores, however, Mr Solana, is that you seem to wish to fulfil your important responsibilities in far too unilateral a fashion.
First of all, you only deal with the security considerations in their military dimension, by making virtual deadlock with regard to what we believe is essential, that is to say, a major policy of prevention, very much upstream of the risks of conflict, that would in itself deserve a common strategy at Union level.
Finally and in particular, we hardly hear you speak at all about the other part of your mission: the foreign policy of the Union.
In the Balkans, a year after the NATO bombings started and in the light of the significant crisis in Mitrovica, are you prepared to carry out a critical evaluation of the whole strategy implemented in this region in order to learn some useful lessons?
They call into question the ambitions that we set ourselves with regard to this part of the world and, consequently, the changes to be advocated in the current world order, or rather, disorder.
My Group would like our dialogue, our cooperation and, where appropriate, our political confrontations, to be included too, and primarily, among these issues.
We believe that poor old Europe can only speak with one voice to say nothing or, and this is possibly more serious, that it can only resolve its diplomatic contradictions by simply tagging along with American politics.
In short, what purpose can an armed force have in the absence of any policy?
On behalf of the combined European right, I must say to you, Mr Solana, as High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy, we do not have confidence in you.
You say that you are against war, but as Secretary-General of NATO you started a war.
Today, even Mr Cohn-Bendit - and that is saying something - can gauge the results of the disastrous policy that he so wished for.
We also have several questions to ask you that show our concern, that is the least one can say.
First of all, in your view, does the common foreign and security policy aim to protect the security of the Member States of the Union, as one might think, or do you recognise their right to intervene anywhere in the world?
In Kosovo, it was for humanitarian reasons that we systematically destroyed all the civilian infrastructure in Serbia.
Finally, you spoke about using the great resources of crisis management.
Not to make war, of course, but to protect peace.
Mr Solana, these questions convey our concern.
Mr President, I too welcome the presence of the High Representative and his availability to answer Members' questions this time round.
The Portuguese presidency has made great progress in establishing a series of provisional or interim bodies.
In record time it has organised this Informal Meeting of Defence Ministers and has highlighted a whole series of milestones on the long road towards this Common Foreign and Security Policy.
This meeting was based on two documents, one being a British document on the Headline Goals and the other a document on the permanent military bodies of the European Union.
Mr Solana, as the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I shall limit my speech to those subjects.
You have, Mr Solana, heard the force of the criticisms made by the Members of Parliament who do not accept the appalling situations in Kosovo, Chechnya and elsewhere.
And today, as far as you are concerned, I acknowledge your efforts to build a European security and defence policy that is worthy of the name and which has not hitherto existed.
But I do give you credit for your intense work, the number of meetings held, your efforts to create a rapid intervention force, your specific efforts to prevent crises, to manage them or stop them through civilian means and, if necessary, by military means.
I should like to take advantage of your presence here today to ask you two questions of the "what is to be done" variety.
I believe that the Italian President of the Council mentioned this point at your meeting on 24 February.
Mr Solana can play an important role in this.
Mr Solana must keep Europe awake without nodding off himself.
In Kosovo, we stepped in with military means, having been unable to prevent the war in ex-Yugoslavia.
As representatives from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we all come from nations and regions which have never gone out to war with foreign countries, but we always needed to fight those who came to oppress us.
At the moment, Europe does not have a foreign policy to speak of.
Mr President, allow me to start with the conquest of Kosovo.
All the signs point towards a second round of attacks on Yugoslavia and this is confirmed by the KLA attacks on Serbs in Mitrovica, the attempt to annex three towns in southern Serbia to Kosovo, the promotion of the independence of Kosovo, the fact that two thousand men have been channelled into Kosovo via Greece, despite the objections of the Greek people and, at the same time, intense efforts by NATO and the European Union to overturn the legitimate government of Yugoslavia.
Commissioner, Mr Solana, there is no doubt that you are acting quickly and forcefully and that you have made great progress in certain areas.
My first question, Mr Solana and Commissioner, is to establish whether, together, you have framed strategies that will, at least gradually, lead to the creation of a process that integrates the common foreign and security policy within the Community process.
We know the strength that they have acquired over these forty years of building the Community.
At the same time, an appeal has also been made in broad terms to increase the defence budgets.
I think that this is to be welcomed, but this appeal does not really distinguish very clearly between Petersberg tasks and wider, collective defence tasks.
High Representative, you have efficiently drawn our attention to the progress we made in this field between Amsterdam and Helsinki and to certain decisions which have already been taken since Helsinki, such as the establishment of the three committees and, of course, the decision to provide for the deployment of a 50-60 000-strong military force.
However, this increase in pace accentuates the lack of coordination between these decisions and the on-going Intergovernmental Conference even further.
Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner Patten, the most recent steps taken by the Council on the European security and defence policy front are, to my mind, in flagrant contravention of the principle of democratic control with regard to military operations.
The second way in which the Sintra meeting fell short was that although there are now efficient military decision-making structures, the concept of non-military crisis management is still completely nebulous.
Mr Solana, the war in Kosovo and the continuing crisis, have served to reveal a European public opinion that is aware that defending the fundamental values that gave rise to the European Union, throughout the world, should no longer continue to rest solely on the shoulders of the President of the United States of America and that the time has come to share the burden, which our American friends have constantly been demanding since Europe became a world economic power.
Over the last year, the Member States of the Union have, naturally, decided to implement specific measures designed to strengthen the operational capability of their armed forces and the informal summit in Sintra, held the day before yesterday in your presence, has just confirmed the main trends.
The first question concerns the training of this rapid intervention force of 60 000 men, which, as you have said, is likely to be deployed to perform peace-keeping and peace-building missions and be capable of maintaining them on a long-term basis, if necessary.
My first question, Mr Solana, will be simple and more direct, perhaps, than those of my colleagues who have spoken before me.
My second question is of a more technical nature, but it is important for the responsibilities of the Atlantic Alliance and the Western European Union to be transferred to the European Union as harmoniously as possible.
You have told us, in this regard, that three committees are being set up, a political committee and a security committee, which started up today, and a military committee.
You then spoke of their relations with the third country members of the Atlantic Alliance or associate members of the Western European Union but which are not members of the European Union.
Mr President, Secretary-General, as you can tell, the Members of this House have listened with great interest to your information on the result of the Informal Meeting of Defence Ministers in Sintra and its significance in the European integration process in terms of security and defence.
Accordingly, I would like to make a few observations, not about the security framework of tomorrow, but about security in the Balkan region today.
Coordinator Hombach and Commissioner Patten are working hard to push through the Solidarity Pact.
Two weeks ago in Strasbourg, we also talked extensively to Commissioner Patten about relations with Macedonia.
I think that the new government can also be of help in the political relations with Belgrade.
If this happens, the United States' Government and the British Government have given it to be understood that they will resort to military intervention.
I would also like to know whether, in this context, it would not be possible to do something to induce the Iraqi Government to take a humanitarian step and to release some information regarding the 615 missing Kuwaitis, or to set them free if this is within their power.
Mr President, High Representative, there is an interesting debate going on in France at present about some of the things the Prime Minister said when he visited Israel.
The debate is interesting in that one of the questions it addresses is: who is a terrorist?
Surely a point of controversy between a Prime Minister and a President about an issue as important as this, at a flash point so close to Europe, ought to be irrelevant in view of the fact that Europe as a whole should have a position in this regard.
Therefore, I would also like to ask you in this connection, what you intend to do, for example, when it comes to the Middle East - unfortunately peace will be slower in coming than we would like it to be, particularly a lasting peace - in order to expound and assert a European position, and to make it plain for all to see in this important region.
I therefore believe that the European Union - in addition to the military aspects, which I would like to place great emphasis on, particularly when it comes to peace in this region, which is not a million miles away from us - should have a clear and unequivocal position.
I hope that, once the other important issues have been dealt with, you will also find the time to see to it that a common European position is enunciated.
As we sit here, hundreds of thousands of people are in enormous peril from the floods in Mozambique.
The level of practical assistance from the Community and from the Member States has been pathetic.
Of course, there is a relationship between military resources and humanitarian assistance, and there are serious military deficiencies in the armed forces of many European countries.
I have not yet heard a convincing security-policy explanation of why the European Union needs to establish autonomous, decision-making capabilities for the use of military forces outside of the NATO structures unless it is to create bodies which will rival NATO.
After all, the EU Member States are either full members of NATO or sit around the Euro Atlantic Partnership Council table.
Finally, Mr Solana, I would just like to ask you what point there is in having the much heralded policy planning and early warning cell in the Council Secretariat if still we are taken by surprise by yet another humanitarian catastrophe.
Mr President, High Representative, Commissioner, with regard to the war in Chechnya, we have all noted the particularly restrained and almost accommodating reaction of the international community in general and of the European Union in particular.
The war in Chechnya proves, if proof were necessary, that the duty or the right to intervene stops at the borders of the great powers.
Some of us here are passionately in favour of creating a distinctly European security organisation to defend peace in the world.
However, we note that you have said nothing to us about the fact that the role of the Security Council, as referred to at Helsinki, was contested recently.
Mr President, I seem to recall from my study of European history, that the 1809 Convention of Sintra was a controversial peace agreement which probably lengthened rather than shortened the Napoleonic wars and nearly cost the Duke of Wellington his job.
That said, I would like to congratulate the high representative on the progress that has been made so far.
To what extent are we going to get some form of convergence on defence expenditure, because some Member States spend considerably more than others.
They are very static in their military forces, and unsuitable for this sort of warfare.
I strongly support the decisions taken at Sintra.
The creation of the interim structures and the plans that are now being put into place to provide the military capacity for achieving EU policy objectives are positive steps in the right direction.
However, while all these developments are indeed welcome, I would like to address a matter which I have raised in this House on previous occasions.
We have a lot of proud talk about 60 000 troops being prepared in 60 days to be available for a whole year, but we currently have crises in Europe and on the borders of Europe and elsewhere which this Union is failing abjectly to deal with.
Mr President, Mr Solana, I don' t want to repeat everything that has already been said here.
KFOR could step up its presence in Mitrovica and be stationed in crisis areas of Kosovo if its current tasks were to be taken on by policemen.
I believe that is what our task ought to have been, and you could play a part in this!
I tend to think that maybe Mr Van den Bos is right that I would need the capacity of the angels to answer so many questions in such a short period of time, but I will try.
We are in the business of creating capabilities that, put together in case of need, can avoid tragedies such as those we have recently experienced.
It is very important to be talking about prevention.
I can tell you, and you know, that prevention capabilities exist already in the Union.
The European Union is going to be, at the end of the day, the most important group of countries able to face problems related to crisis matters, from the humanitarian crises to force deployment.
In a very few days Eurocorps built up by European countries is going to be deployed to Kosovo not to walk around, but to prevent people from killing one another.
Military personnel in our countries are waiting for a crisis.
Policemen in our countries are working 24 hours a day, and for governments it is difficult sometimes to find the appropriate police force to be deployed.
Now, Mr Haarder asked about the risk of a rift between the European Union and NATO.
I do not see why we should become estranged or split or damage the capacity that we have to continue working together.
The people who are there already with their white uniforms, the white uniforms of the European Union have been deployed in Bosnia for many, many years and are now deployed in Kosovo.
Let me say two things only.
The Troika visited the Middle East at the beginning of the year.
The European Union, the European countries are doing their best to continue cooperating in the peace process and offering to help all parties when it is required in order to implement the agreements that will be reached.
Many questions have been asked about what I think about the IGC, security, defence, etc.
I do not know how to answer that question.
Let me answer the specific questions about the statement that has been made by the Minister for Defence of France about 0.7.
I think this is an objective that the countries have to decide if they want to do it or not.
In reply to the question about Article V, we have two article Vs as you know.
One Article V for those countries that belong to the alliance and the other Article V for the countries that belong to the WEU.
The WEU is going to transfer its assets to the European Union, or certain parts.
As you know, there are countries in the European Union which are not ready and they will not accept a transfer of Article V, Brussels article, into the European Union framework and therefore we cannot do it.
It is much more important to see what the country has done.
I would like to say that as regards the status of those countries which are not members of the European Union but which are members of the alliance and eventually will be members of the European Union, we would like to get them involved.
Mr Galeote Quecedo asked about the diplomatic corps in the European Union.
It is working well and I very much hope that it will be a great success for the countries of the region and also for the European Union.
You know very well that Helsinki took a very important decision, a very important decision concerning Chechnya.
We will have again a meeting with the United States the following day and then we will have a trilateral meeting, the United States and European Union and Russia together in which, as you can imagine, the number one item on the agenda is going to be Chechnya.
Let me end - I do not want to take up your time any longer - by saying that I am ready to come here whenever you want but I would prefer, if it is possible, to have sessions in which we concentrate on some topics and develop them to the fullest, because if not, we have so many topics, so many issues that it is very difficult to really treat them in depth.
Helsinki was in December and our Prime Ministers and our Heads of State asked us to do something very important for the first time.
I would just like to say a word or two myself on that particular subject.
Many people will argue that of course all that is required in Europe is for us to make better use of our existing resources but I suspect there will be a growing debate in our own countries in the Member States about whether that really is enough, about whether that is going to secure the sort of security policy which we wish to be more responsible for in our own Union.
I would just like to say a word about the non-military aspects of our security policy, of conflict prevention and crisis management.
We will be bringing forward to the Council before Lisbon our proposals on a rapid reaction facility so that we can provide assistance where it is required, not in months or years, but in days or weeks.
Additionally, and this is for me the most important area of all, an area where we are breaking new ground, we will, soon after we have put forward our proposals on a rapid reaction facility, be bringing forward proposals as well on non-military headline goals.
It is, I repeat, breaking new ground but it is very important that we do it for a number of reasons and policing in Kosovo, policing elsewhere, is the most dramatic and obvious example.
I grew up as a kid hoping I would be allowed to stay up on Saturday evenings in order to see a television programme about a community policeman called Dixon of Dock Green.
I have just been writing a report before I came to this job, and writing a very good report, just to respond to my honourable friend, on policing in part of my own country.
But that sort of approach to policing alas is not what is required in Kosovo.
We have armed forces, we have all got experience of training community police officers.
One thing I would advise him to do is to listen to Radio 4 at the end of March to the first Reith lecture where he will hear the Commissioner for External Relations giving an extremely moving and convincing lecture on this whole subject.
We will be producing a communication shortly on an issue which this Parliament feels passionately about, that is, how we can ensure that election observation is conducted as comprehensively and sensibly as possible without diminishing the integrity of the institutions which do it.
I would very much hope that we can all live on a planet which is also inhabited by the European Council, the General Affairs Council and Ecofin.
All on the same political planet together and making sure that there is some harmony between what we promised the world and what we can actually deliver.
I have heard promises that we will establish a stability pact in the southern Caucuses.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
The scholars of ancient Greece bequeathed to us the assumption that there is a natural link between equality and justice.
As man is given to excess in everything, when he can be, he is excessive in his inequality" .
Modernity and the system of democracy in which it exists is based on the idea of a social contract, a form of association which, in the words of Rousseau, "defends and protects the person and property of each member with all common force and according to which each member, in association with the others, nevertheless only obeys himself and remains as free as before.
In post-modern society, now that we have declared that Rousseau' s social contract is no longer sufficient, we must call for a new form of contract, one which is richer and more enriching because it is more in tune with human nature, with its natural polarity between men and women.
We are living in an era in which politics has become debased and in which democracies suffer from a lack of political commitment on the part of their citizens.
Globalisation has various implications for democracy.
Under the Portuguese presidency, and bearing in mind the efforts and the contributions made by the various Member States, the Lisbon Special Summit, which will be held on the theme 'Employment, economic reform and social cohesion: towards a new Europe of innovation and knowledge' , seeks to counter these risks, which have historically always been more serious for women, particularly in those areas most directly related to the specific theme proposed.
We are therefore seeking to overhaul the European social model and at the same time to increase employment and social cohesion.
This will only be possible if there is a new social contract in which reconciling family life and professional life is given strategic importance and in which "sharing" is the key word.
It is obvious that the lack of real equality betrays a lack of legitimacy in our political structures and demonstrates how unrepresentative they are.
Humanity is divided into two sexes, and we need a system in which discussions and decisions are undertaken by men and women on an equal basis.
That is why I believe in parity, the new face of sexual equality, which gives universality back its true meaning and its rightful place in a politically organised society.
From what we know of this process, it seems obvious that it is crucial to pursue and strengthen the policy of equality between men and women at Community level because, despite all the progress made and all the work done, we still see significant examples of disparity between men and women in economic, political, social and civil terms.
The first period was a period of institutional change, change in the legislative framework and huge constitutional victories in all the Member States as a result of the fight by the women' s movement, as a result of major decisions by progressive parties and as the result of action by enlightened men and women.
There were women everywhere.
The composition, or rather the change in composition, will also bring about changes in policies - policies which need to take account of the merits and experience of both sexes.
Ladies and gentlemen, the first few months of the new millennium have been marked by two important events: the first was the election of the President of Finland, Mrs Halïnen.
A great deal has been said and numerous policies have been implemented in the Member States.
The number of women on committees who wield power and frame policies is very small.
We need a policy mix which includes long-term political commitments, as in Sweden and Finland; they now have governments in which women account for 56% and 44% of members respectively.
The recent initiative by the Finnish presidency to develop indicators recording and reflecting the representation of women in the decision-making centres is extremely important.
A decision has already been taken on quotas of 40% for each sex on all teams and on all research and technological development programmes.
We in the Commission are obliged to set a specific and clear example and all the Commissioners are working together, as can be seen from the reform of the Commission, to achieve 40% representation of women on all the committees of the European Commission.
The various political groups generally agree on the easily verifiable observation that women are under-represented in the decision-making process, in both the political and the economic and social spheres.
Nobody nowadays disputes that women should participate in political life, in the parties and in the institutions but it is not easy to agree on how this participation should be achieved.
We are convinced that the participation of women in the decision-making process will be beneficial to society as a whole.
The difficulty lies in finding the right solution to allow women to have a greater presence in positions of responsibility and therefore in decision making.
In some countries of the European Union a compulsory quota formula has been adopted which immediately produces a more equal presence of women.
The real percentage is much lower and it is this participation at the grassroots which we must promote in order to ensure a greater presence of women.
There must also be a clear and real will to allow more women, who are ready and able, to assume responsibilities and commitments in political life and therefore in the decision-making process.
It happens to be today that Finland' s newly elected President, Tarja Halonen, takes up office.
And so the women in Finland have also set down a marker, for this is the first time they have had a female Head of State.
They did not follow the Council recommendation of 1996 on equal involvement for women and overcoming the under-representation of women.
We need this new social treaty, we need the fight for power, money and distribution of work, which must favour women.
Men have never wished to surrender positions of power when they had them, but there are also very few women who have been willing to give up their positions of power, and I am thinking here, in particular, of positions of power in relation to children.
Inevitably, we should like, for the same reasons of power politics, to be allowed to have this debate more or less to ourselves.
In fact, 45% of the Danish government is made up of women, and that is, in reality, a touch more than in Finland.
I think that this field offers some quite distinctive opportunities for women, specifically because it is characterised by flat, rather than hierarchical, structures.
We all know to what extent women are under-represented in decision making at all levels because we have the statistics and they speak for themselves.
If we believe in the principle of equal representation of women and men in decision making we need to commit ourselves to the actions that are necessary to make it happen.
In my own country, Sweden, a number of political parties have, in recent years, voluntarily introduced quota allocation by gender as a feature governing the ways in which political assemblies are constituted and run.
In anticipation of this request being met, I now want to take the opportunity of wishing all socialist women success with the "Women' s World Marches" which are to begin this spring on International Women' s Day.
The vast majority of them are not members of any party.
Our Group wants to encourage the fair representation of men and women in the institutions of the European Union.
That is why we reject the policy of quotas and positive discrimination, whether it is in favour of women or supposed social minorities.
The policy of minorities, while neglecting the deep-seated unity of the human family, to establish superficial divisions, is a dangerous threat to the cohesion of the social fabric and the equilibrium of our democratic system.
The establishment of social quotas in favour of the very smallest categories would be no more ludicrous than establishing quotas of women.
On the other hand, such a policy shows a deep contempt for women.
Women deserve more than a quota.
It is by reviving the principle of meritocracy that we shall improve in quantity and quality the presence of women in the decision-making process in quantity and quality.
I know from experience that many women share this view.
Minister, Commissioner, everything you have just said has been very well expressed, even if a few male colleagues, if there are still any in the Chamber, perhaps gnashed their teeth.
I know that there are also some women who do not wish to hear of quotas or even of positive action, because they believe that this positive discrimination humiliates them and marks them forever in their careers.
But the statistics prove it: the positive action, even the quotas, - if they are not applied blindly, without distinction - have increased the number of women in the decision-making process.
First of all it concerns our report, which was adopted last year on the occasion of International Women' s Day in Strasbourg, which requests the Commission to submit to us a new proposal to amend the 1976 directive on the implementation of the principle of the equal treatment of men and women.
May I just remind you once again of our request for an amendment to the 1976 directive which has been watered down and misapplied with regard to the equal treatment of self-employed people, including assistant spouses.
The presence of women in decision-making bodies, in particular, is a question of democracy.
The price paid by women for following their desire to be protagonists in all spheres is that they never have enough time.
If this is true, and it is, any appropriate policy which aims to find positive solutions to these problems must start from this point.
Finally, I would like to say that it is now essential that we also raise this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference.
We know that this area is proving more difficult to resolve, both because women still bear the main responsibilities in family life and because there is still prejudice and personal interest standing in the way of genuine participation by women in various areas which involve greater responsibility.
The truth is that the scant participation of women in centres of political representation and decision making demonstrates a democratic deficit which is incompatible with genuine democracy.
It is therefore essential for the various directives on equality to be complied with and for the Council, the Commission and each Member State strictly to respect the commitments they have made, particularly at the Beijing Conference.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am a right-wing Member of Parliament but I have the same battles as my colleagues in supporting and assisting fellow citizens in my country to gain power and access to decision-making posts, which should be feasible not only in the political arena but clearly also in all sectors of society.
It should have existed for a long time because women represent more than half of society and it seems quite clear to me that it is natural for them to represent at least 50%, if not more, of those within decision-making bodies and, inter alia, in the political arena.
An important part of such a plan would be a benchmarking system to guarantee women' s full participation in power structures and decision making.
The call for women' s participation in decision making on an equal footing with men is not only a demand for social justice and democracy; it is also essential if women' s experience and knowledge are to be utilised to the full.
We want this opportunity to bring substantial changes to our lives in society at large, we want democracy to be synonymous with equality between men and women, and we do not want women to be excluded socially or economically as is still happening today.
The rate of employment in Europe, which is much lower than in the United States and Japan, must be increased.
We must therefore have many more women in work, and working in the new jobs in which the EU has a shortfall.
I would therefore like to ask the Council and the Commission what proposals they will be presenting at the forthcoming Lisbon Summit to ensure that the new economy and the new Europe we want to build will definitely include equality between men and women.
Mr President, Commissioner, the reason why I was so pleased with your intervention was that you had the courage to list the Member States where the political representation of women is a success, such as, for example, in Finland, France and Sweden, and equally, you had the courage to list the Member States where things in this respect are not going so well, such as, for example, my own country and Greece too, which you forgot to mention.
The electoral system which corresponds most closely to this model is the one-for-one system, as is being applied in Sweden on a voluntary basis.
I hope that in the fifth action programme, Minister and Commissioner, benchmarking will enable the best practices of those countries to be carried through, for it is time that our groups gained an understanding of this.
Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council for their solid recommendations and, above all, for their proposals.
There are, therefore, serious grounds, over and above justice between the sexes, for distributing public offices and political and economic power fairly and evenly between men and women.
These female virtues can offer an alternative to today' s culture of violence and institute a new political culture and a fairer and more prosperous society for everyone.
That is why the Intergovernmental Conference must introduce into the Treaty the principle of balanced representation of women and men in all the institutions of the European Union and in all democratic institutions and political decision-making centres throughout the Community.
It is a demand for simple justice and for democracy and, as such, a condition for political legitimacy.
In my opinion, though, the state should not and must not use coercion to interfere in the internal affairs of political parties, at the risk of jeopardising democracy itself.
In other words, the means which we employ to give women their rightful place within the political democracy should not lead to a system of gender apartheid.
To my mind, quotas will - as was stated here, moreover - be merely a provisional instrument.
I can tell you what happened in Portugal last year when a law on quotas for party lists was discussed.
If a political party holds a meeting in the evening and the man cannot go home because he has to attend as he is a member of the party' s executive, that is seen as a good reason for the man not to go home to play his part in the household chores, which are also his responsibility.
Therefore, until there is a change in this idea of sharing, sharing the responsibilities that the right to have a family implies, obviously nothing will change in terms of women being able to participate in the political process.
However, in order to find these solutions, we need measures for positive action which contribute to them.
I therefore fail to understand what the problem with quotas is, given that in principle, they will only be used as an instrument in countries where women are under-represented and where these draft laws have been approved in parliaments where, by definition, men are in the majority.
These measures for positive and balanced action respecting people' s dignity must be adopted in various areas.
The presidency is therefore extremely keen to support initiatives designed to radically change this situation, even if it has to use transitional instruments which have already proved to be the only way to achieve the objective of balanced representation in decision-making processes.
The presidency is extremely anxious and entirely committed to support these methods, not as objectives in themselves but as a means to an end.
We have entered a new period in which there is a fairly full institutional framework and in which women are well represented in all sectors, education, work, culture.
The problem which we have to deal with is how to change the composition of the decision-making centres.
The first is a policy of persuasion.
As far as Europe is concerned, as far as the European Parliament is concerned, where there is a quota for the involvement of women, it will take 25 years to achieve balanced representation.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
Floods in Mozambique The next item is the Commission statement on flooding in Mozambique.
The government of Mozambique has appealed for humanitarian aid from third countries.
My colleague Poul Nielson is literally on his way to Mozambique this afternoon and evening together with the Portuguese Secretary of State to assess the situation on the ground.
If ever a country deserved help from aid donors it was Mozambique.
Secondly, that feeling has been confirmed by the real efforts which Mozambique has made in the last few years to build a strong and prosperous economy and a stable society.
Thirdly, we spent much of this afternoon in this Chamber discussing conflict prevention, how one could prevent crises happening or how one could respond to crises more effectively.
A third decision will be considered in the light of the mission of Commissioner Nielson.
The Commission is also preparing a medium-term Community response combining NGO co-financing with European Development Fund operations to help Mozambique to respond to the crisis situation in re-establishing the rapid pace of growth that Mozambique had worked so hard to achieve.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mozambique is a young African country which has made heroic efforts to recover from the underdevelopment resulting from two decades of civil war and to adapt to democracy.
The EU and some of its Member States, including my own, have provided emergency financial aid, perhaps a little later than they should have, but they have done so, as have the United States and various countries in the region, particularly South Africa.
It is therefore now becoming urgent for us to start considering how we can find financial resources to rebuild the infrastructure that has been destroyed and without which Mozambique cannot continue on the path towards development on which it set out a few years ago in such a promising way.
If nothing is done now, we will be letting all the effort that we have made in the past to help Mozambique in its development go to waste.
Mr President, it has already been said that, after a war which engulfed the country in misery, Mozambique is now facing a natural disaster of terrifying proportions.
The DIPECHO agenda includes south-east Asia, Central America and the Caribbean.
The PSE Group has always supported the Commission' s humanitarian aid policy.
In view of all this, we also believe the time has come to demand a redoubled effort by the Commission and the Member States, on behalf of those who are now drowning in Mozambique.
Mr President, the situation in Mozambique is of the greatest urgency.
It is as if the whole world is looking on, helplessly.
It is therefore vital for the EU and its Member States to intervene in a way which will enable us to provide this country and its people with rapid and exceptional help.
Thousands upon thousands of human lives are in danger at the moment, and only international solidarity can save them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there remains, however, one immediate problem: the need to provide help for all Mozambicans who have been afflicted, many of whose lives are in danger, in their flooded villages, hoping that they will be rescued.
We are also under an obligation to help because of another fact, the fact that Mozambique is one of the few African countries to have used democratic means to recover from the bloody civil war by which it was consumed for several years after it gained independence.
But given this situation, which is so tragic for the people of Mozambique, we must not fail to provide an effective and appropriate response to the appeals of Mozambique' s leaders, both those in the government and those in opposition, who, out of a sense of responsibility, have resisted from resorting to violence again as a means of solving their problems.
Children have lost parents, families are bereft, hopeless, helpless and they have lost absolutely everything.
But of course, as others have said, this whole thing was predicted and predictable and the slow and very inadequate, woefully slow and woefully inadequate response is something that should dictate now that we actually do invest seriously in disaster preparedness.
There is a case as the Commissioner mentioned for the implementation of a rapid response facility and rapid response force in situations like this to deal with crises such as we have there because we simply did not have the strategies or the logistical preparations in place.
Most of us here would not wish to boast about EUR 3 million.
We need far more and I hope that the Commissioner will come back with those promises and also with an initiative to coordinate some of the efforts there.
Thank you, Mrs Kinnock.
In Europe, in your rapporteur' s opinion, this is exactly the attitude that has served us badly over past years, not just once but repeatedly.
These risks involve a correction in the US economy and the future trend in oil prices and in long-term EU interest rates.
Should any of these risks materialise in a negative fashion, what will be our response - more laissez faire or shall we have prepared ourselves better than in the last downturn?
It has been my proposal that Parliament must recommend an activist economic policy consisting of two main parts.
One is to adopt the Commission' s own excellent, outstanding econometric analysis, and ask the Council to transform it into a programme of action involving certain interconnected quantifiable targets of levels of investment growth and employment that would make our commitment to a policy of full employment operational and credible.
A central plank of such a programme should be the raising of the level of investment of capital formation from 19%, to which it has fallen over the decade, to at least 23-24% of GDP, both in the private and in the public sector.
The second pillar consisted of embracing a large number of structural reforms, privatisation, de-regulation proposals, as well as suggestions facilitating the transition to a knowledge-based economy which, as we know, constitutes the backbone of the proposals of the presidency for the Lisbon Summit.
It has been repeatedly stated by expert opinion that the programme of structural reforms combined with an expansionary programme of investment and growth is capable of pulling the European economy out of its state of inertia while one-sided policies are condemned to fail.
Unfortunately my colleagues of the People' s Party aided and abetted by the Liberals in the Economic Affairs Committee found my approach unacceptable.
I believe that the political message of this Parliament should consist of something more original than a mere rehash of the neo-classical economic mantra.
Mr President, firstly I would like to say how pleased I am that my friend Giorgos Katiforis is still able to muster so much enthusiasm for this very important subject so late in the evening.
The European Central Bank has all the instruments at its disposal that a central bank could wish for.
The European Central Bank is headed by convincing personalities.
Price stability in the European Union is better in the eleven Member States than it is in the United States.
The real reason why the European countries are not finding favour is the fact that we are too slow in tackling the structural reform Europe needs.
We are aware that unemployment has fallen more quickly in those countries, including EU Member States, which have made their labour markets more flexible, than it has in other countries.
For example, if there is currently demand in Germany for electronics experts to be brought into the European Union from other countries, then this only goes to show that our own training systems have failed and that they have not been equipped to deal with the requirements of the information society in good time.
In other words, things are moving too slowly.
But now perhaps a few words on the fundamental difference between our opinion and that of the rapporteur.
The rapporteur believes in growth and stimulating demand.
At the end of the day, there are, for example, indicators here in the European Union that show that growth and its prospects are by no means as solid as they were in the 80s.
An independent evaluation of European economic policy will be of importance to the European Union and to structured growth.
Yesterday, when speaking to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Commissioner Solbes specifically indicated that the prospects for this year and next for the European economy are excellent.
We are inclined to believe that a solid basis exists for this economic growth in the Union, now and in the coming years.
Furthermore, the Member States refused to contribute more funds when we discussed Agenda 2000 which means that there will be little available over the next few years at Union level.
However, we must stress the need to continue developing the construction of the European internal market which still has some serious flaws.
There are still sectors such as air transport, energy and telecommunications in which, if we compare our unit cost with that of the USA or other countries which are equally competitive at international level, the cost supported by our companies is very high.
This report contains information which shows that in order to create a new company the bureaucratic cost in the USA is EUR 500 and in the European Union, on average, it is EUR 1 600.
First of all, the affirmation that there is room for a Europe of growth, but a Europe of sustainable growth, that particularly respects the commitments of the European Union at the conferences in Kyoto and Buenos Aires.
A tremendous amount of work remains to be done in the field of transport, energy saving and even in substituting travel by communication via the Internet.
Secondly, even the growth rate of 3 or 4%, something we consider eminently feasible, will not be sufficient to reduce unemployment if we do not improve the job content of this growth.
Thirdly, we fully agree that it is necessary to reform labour relations in Europe, but that clearly means for us that we must protect and enrich the human capital.
Our committee emphatically rejected any attempt on the part of the rapporteur to use his report to introduce a different dimension into the debate on the economic situation in the European Union and to send the Commission and the Council the sort of message which the European Parliament should send out as the parliamentary body elected by the people of the European Union.
Indeed, it is good to note that the forecast of 3% growth for the year 2000, which could have seemed rather bold when the Commission announced it in November 1999, now has a serious chance of being achieved, even in the context of continued inflation, since the peak of 2% for the euro zone in January, nevertheless remains quite minor compared with the past.
In fact, the unification of monetary policies and the gradual alignment of other policies imposes additional inflexibility on the different countries in the euro zone by making them behave in ways that are not necessarily suited to their structures and to their respective economic circumstances.
If Member States do not do anything about this, there will be even fewer means for care, education and other important public amenities in the future.
High unemployment in the European Union concerns all of us, especially now that the downward trend does not seem to be persisting.
The very brave step taken by the Reagan administration in the 80s showed how a dramatic reduction in the level of taxation, from 70% to 28% that is, was able to stabilise the USA' s budget with lasting effect.
Surveys carried out at European universities have shown that 60% of students intend to seek work in the public sector and only 40% in the private sector.
We need more competition in Europe, particularly where the new technologies are concerned, so that objectives such as full employment and growth can be secured and sustained.
More flexible labour markets, new technologies, and securing market niches and better framework conditions for the establishment of innovative and creative enterprises, are all crucial to the European economy.
A first, yet crucial step, would be to bring about convergence in social policy.
This would include a benchmarking procedure, with the exchange of comparable data and a shift of emphasis from action plans to the fight against exclusion and poverty.
There is a need to evaluate the annual progress, or lack of it, made by Member States in the fight against unemployment, and to take the necessary countermeasures.
The European Parliament must have greater involvement in this process.
What we want, therefore, is for Europe to enjoy economic growth, but also be prepared to address social issues.
In my view, it is simply not on to say that things are going well for Europe when between 16 and 17 million Europeans are without work.
Europe therefore needs another type of policy, not an American-style policy in every respect but one which takes us away from welfare dependency, which gives people the opportunity of a good education suited to the new jobs in the market, which makes it easier to start up new companies, which improves the commercial climate and which ensures that new techniques and ideas are exploited to the full.
The rapporteur observes that stability is not an end in itself, which is something I agree with.
There is far too much talk about stability, convergence and coordination and far too little about the factors which give rise to innovation and development.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have the feeling that some of the previous speakers have not read the 1999 annual report on the Union economy in its entirety and have made a conscious decision not to listen to my Group' s spokesman, Karl von Wogau, for the document that we are debating today, and which has had a report written on it, points to the fact that the introduction of the euro has been a success.
Mr President, I would like to respond to you straightaway, Mr Karas.
We too are campaigning for and arguing in favour of the euro, but we want a social market economy and not a US-style market economy.
The Commission has the cynicism to consider wage restraint as a positive factor, whereas in France alone, over three million workers receive a salary that is close to the poverty line and they barely survive any better than the other three million people kept unemployed by an insane economy.
What you have as a result are all these major trusts that cut jobs while their profits are high, and which often make staff redundant simply to make their share price rise on the stock market.
Eleven thousand job losses at Hoechst and Rhone-Poulenc, twenty two thousand at Unilever, ten thousand at ABB/Alsthom Power, not to mention all the others.
The key political divide has been very obviously stated this evening, and it is no surprise that this issue has polarised the debate in a House which is known for its consensus and its carve-out politics, and I am delighted to see this difference of opinion made so clear, because this report is a radical one.
This is the only way to go forward, because the real way to deliver social justice in Europe - and after all that is what we are all here to do - is to deliver prosperity and opportunities and jobs.
This report signals very clearly the most effective way to do that, because Europe has to wake up.
It cannot create jobs just by government spending.
It cannot create jobs by legislating to cut working hours, as if jobs were a cake that you carve up and divide between people.
And if Europe wants to be left behind, left behind to stagnation and to unemployment and to statism and to corporatism, than yes, vote against this report tomorrow.
But if you want Europe to go forward and to start delivering to the people of Europe, then I would call upon you all to give your support to this report, because it will deliver those jobs, and it will deliver those opportunities, and it is the only way to do so.
Mr President, the original version of the Giorgos Katiforis report had the great merit of making strong recommendations, based on the precise observations of the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe, for a European Union strategy capable of giving continuity and stability to the sustainable development prospects emerging this year for all the countries of our continent.
These recommendations, which, for the most part, are consistent with the guidelines in the Portuguese presidency' s work programme and which will therefore be discussed at the Lisbon Summit, have been rejected or distorted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of this Parliament, by a majority which only managed to achieve a fragile unity in its rejection of the idea of a European Union which is founded on the convergence of national policies and not just on the grouping together of markets.
Mr President, I am certainly now unsure as to whether we have all read the same report.
You will find a clear statement to the effect that full employment is not one issue amongst many but the core issue of European economic policy.
Now, finally, the EU' s position is, of course, such that we can achieve high growth and seriously take up the fight against unemployment without jeopardising objectives such as price stability and a balanced budget.
I think that, in this way, the European Parliament is excluding itself from the discussion at the very moment that an extremely interesting development is taking place in the European Union where a very wide, socio-economic agenda is being drawn up much more clearly.
The Portuguese presidency has submitted a wide agenda of this kind for the extra summit in Lisbon.
The Commission has done this in its five-year plan by listing one of the four priorities.
The Commission document too, which is being drafted for the summit in Lisbon, takes precisely such a wide approach which covers different areas.
There is no doubt that the hearings of experts and the debates in committee have provided us with additional high-quality information.
There is also no doubt that, throughout the debate this afternoon, we have heard differing opinions about the possible policies.
We all agree that the current economic conjuncture is good.
When we submitted our report, we referred to the risks posed by growth.
We basically highlighted the possibility of encountering difficulties in terms of growth in the USA, and therefore in other parts of the world, and of a sudden rise in inflation.
We all agree that, after a decade of very weak growth and intolerable unemployment, certain action must be taken.
Our levels of research and development are too low compared with our competitors and our low level of employment reflects, among other factors, the imbalances in our labour market.
Our aim must therefore be to make this reactivation of the economy long-lasting with strong growth and job creation.
This is not an expansionist policy in the sense of growth for growth' s sake.
This has been the major victim in recent years and any improvements in public finances must lead to improvements in public investment.
Our main support in the future must be for research and development and human capital.
This is the policy which the Commission has defended and will continue to defend in Lisbon.
With the review of the common fisheries policy due in 2002, it is important that swift progress is now made.
The proposal also makes provision for Member States to produce such data in aggregated form.
The implementing regulation will establish a minimum Community programme and an extended Community programme.
It appears that these programmes will not cover the whole range of potential data but will be selective, for example, by type of fish stock.
The proposal for the Council decision allows for the making of the financial contribution by the Community to Member States engaged in the collection and management of data.
The original proposal simply allowed for the information being gathered to be transmitted to international organisations.
Thus, Amendment No 6, while maintaining the freedom of Member States to transmit the data to international organisations, requires that it also be sent annually to the Commission.
This change is taken in conjunction with Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 7.
Amendment No 1 clarifies the point that, although the data are to be scientifically based, they are being collected for wider decision-making purposes.
Amendment No 4 makes it clear that the object of the exercise is the evaluation of fisheries resources generally.
Amendment No 7 calls on the Commission to report annually on the use it has made of the data collected under the regulation.
The other area of concern related to the range of data to be collected under the regulation.
First, in respect to economic data, Amendment No 2 makes two changes.
One attempts to ensure that the data sought are no more detailed than necessary to serve the objective being pursued.
The other replaces a reference to income from sales and other revenue, subsidies, interest received, etc., with a reference simply to volume of sales.
It is considered that without these changes undesirably high costs in the collection of data could be incurred in Member States and that there could also be serious problems of confidentiality.
In conjunction with these changes, Amendment No 5 deletes a reference to accounting headings accordingly.
Amendment No 3 brings into the ambit of the current regulation data of the kind needed to monitor changes in aquatic ecosystems.
This will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation concerning environmental data and may even render this unnecessary.
It should be stressed that the Amendment does not in any way require the Commission to include the collection of such data either under the minimum or the extended programmes it establishes.
As already stated the proposal for the Council decision falls into two parts.
The first is concerned with financing the Member States in implementing the Community programmes.
There are some minor amendments: Amendment No 2 aims to ensure that the financial contribution to Member States can cover not only the costs of collection of data but also those of its management, compilation, aggregation, etc.
Amendments Nos 3 and 6 aim to smooth the timescale given that Member States will have to wait until the implementing regulation is in place to know what the programmes actually involve; and also to bring the timescale into line with the dates and the regulation.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 aim to ensure that financial information is forwarded continuously to the budgetary authority.
More significantly, under Amendment No 1, the Fisheries Committee accepts the recommendation of the Budgets Committee that the funding should be placed under heading 1(b) rather than heading 3 of the Financial Perspective.
Although in its preliminary draft budget the Commission entered the appropriations under heading 3 'Internal Policies' , Parliament created a new budget line B1-500 to finance the measures under discussion.
The proposed exhaustive collection of data and the appropriate management of this data will be very valuable in helping to tackle the revision of the common fisheries policy in a more rigorous manner.
In view of this problem, which seems to me to be the most serious, the Fisheries Committee report improves the proposal in certain important points, particularly with the rapporteur' s suggestion of more reasonable submission deadlines and the request for monitoring by the Commission.
As a result, this report is very satisfactory and, on behalf of my Group, I therefore ask for its approval.
Over the years, the Commission has provided the Council and Parliament with a steady stream of communications on the market situation for fisheries products.
The object of the exercise was to debate the future prospects of a sustainable European fisheries policy, or rather, to redetermine the content, with regard to production, trade, marketing and various other spheres.
The implementing regulation will clear a few matters up.
I welcome the establishment of a Community framework for the collection and management of fisheries data which I believe is absolutely essential if we are to properly assess the level of stocks of the various species of fish.
It is important, of course, that the data is both of a biological and economic nature and the information to be provided from the various Member States must be standardised across the Community and, as stated by the rapporteur in her report, must be in compliance with international provisions.
I agree with the proposals that information provided to international organisations should also be made available to the Commission.
I am pleased to confirm that in my country they are working to ensure that the detailed practicalities, the logistics and utilisation of information are developed in the best interests of the resource of the industry and decision makers and our Group has no difficulty in supporting these reports.
But to enlighten the decision makers, let us practise honest science, without the ulterior motive of having the European Union finance excuses to destroy our fishing boats.
Instead of always following behind the United States, in Seattle, in Kosovo, in Iraq, perhaps the Europe of Brussels could suggest, over and above the international fishing organisations that exist in the North Atlantic, in the Pacific, over and above the regulation of tuna, cod or other things, that Europe should take the initiative and organise an international conference on fishing, a kind of Montego Bay of the fisheries resources which would be held between Peruvians, Japanese, Canadians, Russians, Europeans, and we could manage the fisheries resources scientifically as an asset common to humanity.
Mr President, Commissioner, to be able to adopt a credible fisheries policy, the Commission needs comprehensive and reliable data on fish stocks and fisheries fleets at its disposal.
The Commission relies on the Member States for the collation of this data.
The question, however, is whether or not the Member States would be prepared, under this new regime, to make the necessary data available at the requested time.
Further to the Court of Auditor' s criticism, in January this Parliament adopted my amendment to the Cunha report with a large majority.
Finally, radical decisions are sometimes mainly based on opinions presented by biologists.
Furthermore, the Commission must provide sufficient financial means for the inspection of stock levels.
I see the Commissioner smiling but I speak with the authority of all the political parties in Northern Ireland, a diverse crowd but all agreed on this one issue.
As I have said all the Northern Ireland parties are united on this issue and those responsible for this cod quota regulation should reconsider this decision which can only spell not conservation for the fish but ruination to Northern Ireland fisheries which will affect all the fisheries of this Union.
However, the fact that the updating and sending of data are purely optional and that this involves a very wide range of data and sectors may distort the final objective of the Commission' s proposal.
Some have different sectors and, in view of the volume of data to be sent, could be prejudiced compared with those which have a smaller volume of data, if the same deadlines are set.
Much of this data is confidential, as has also been mentioned, which could affect the competitiveness of the sectors involved and their enterprises.
We must therefore act very carefully in this area and guarantee the confidentiality of this data.
I regard it as a weakness in the proposal that reporting is not mandatory in all Member States.
I cannot understand the proposal to make a regulation out of which it is possible for some Member States to slip without any penalty and I cannot understand either that within a European Union where we are only 50% self-sufficient in fish for our domestic needs that there is any highly sensitive information, that by making the reports that are necessary that the national interest or the regional interest of some states or fishing communities is going to be put at risk.
In view of the coming review of the policy in 2002 it is important that we have all possible information, economic as well as biological.
In the past somebody said to me I have been defending the decisions the Commission makes.
If we do not have this picture then it will not be possible to make reasonable decisions in two years' time about the future of the policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, no one could dispute the usefulness of implementing the qualitative and quantitative data on the fishing industry, particularly in view of the reform of the CFP in 2002.
A common fisheries policy must coordinate as well as possible the requirements for conservation of species and resource management with economic and market requirements.
However, we also expect there to be greater awareness and appreciation of the peculiarities, differences, varying situations and traditions of the fishing industries, and that they will not be disregarded, penalised or even eliminated due to the misinterpretation of the concept of harmonisation of fisheries policies, as has sometimes occurred in the past.
After years of the CFP for the Mediterranean restricting itself to trade regulations and company aid, Regulation 1626 at last introduced a responsible fisheries policy, with measures protecting vulnerable fishery resources in order to ensure sustainable exploitation.
The time period will elapse on 31 May next, to be precise, when the Commission will present a proposal.
Reliable and complete data are a fundamental prerequisite for credible fisheries management, still more so for creating what we constantly refer to as a level playing field.
However, I could only support the collection of data of this kind if a clear data framework was to be put in place first of all and, above all, if the necessary additional budgetary funds were to be made available.
I have the following to say to you on the subject of Amendment No 6, namely all recorded data to be automatically transmitted to the Commission: the Commission will automatically receive all the necessary data on request.
There is no point in setting up a central database in Brussels when much of this data is needed for international meetings a long way from Brussels.
I also agree with you that we should present our first report in good time after 2002, against the background of the common fisheries policy.
It will need to be revisited in further detail in April, within the scope of the draft budget procedure for 2001.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5, according to which the Commission is to transmit all financial, and also all situation reports produced by the Member States, appear to me to be superfluous, for after all, we have given a commitment to prepare a report evaluating the measures adopted by the Member States, and this report will contain an assessment of the entire data collection system.
The Commission, in cooperation with the Council, will see to it that a realistic schedule is established.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
It sustains some 6 500 jobs and generates around EUR 800 million annually.
The current directive prohibits the use of vaccination and requires that all fish in an affected farm be slaughtered whether affected by the disease or not.
The intention in adopting the current regime was to eradicate ISA and to do so as quickly as possible.
This is a necessary change and should be accompanied by a commitment at European level to instigate and fund research into developing an effective vaccine.
The second proposed change would permit a phased withdrawal of fish from affected farms, working to a plan based on the severity of the problem in any particular farm.
This approach has been used very effectively in Norway where new reports of ISA are down to a handful of cases a year having peaked at some 80-90 cases per year in the early 1990s.
I therefore support the Commission' s proposed changes and I am calling for their urgent adoption and implementation.
I thank colleagues in the Fisheries Committee for their overwhelming vote in support of my report and I in particular thank my Scottish colleagues in the committee for their input to this whole process.
Most of their content is either unnecessary or already referred to in my text.
It is in all of our interests to ensure that in Scotland too we contain ISA and prevent its further spread.
Last week saw the publication in Scotland of a report by a joint government and industry working group on ISA.
Now, as he said, in excess of 85 000 tons of Salmon is now produced in Scottish fish farms in an industry which generates more than EUR 800 million annually.
Regrettably, although ISA was first detected in Scotland only two years ago, it has now spread to 29 farms directly and around 240 other farms are affected in some way or another.
So this report, Mr President, provides an encouraging range of proposals for improving the way in which the authorities in the UK and elsewhere should respond to the disease.
By recommending the introduction of a method of containment and gradual culling, similar to the system used successfully in Norway, the rapporteur seeks to introduce a more flexible approach to the disease which will provide confidence, not least to the insurance sector who have hitherto shied clear of providing any form of cover due to the insistence on a policy of compulsory slaughter.
By recommending the research, development and ultimate use of vaccination to control and eradicate ISA, the rapporteur also provides comfort to the pharmaceutical industry who have hitherto had no incentive to invest in the development of a vaccine.
In recent research it is estimated that the industry is worth EUR 800 million per annum and 6 500 jobs rely on its existence.
Thirdly, referring to the earlier discussion on the collection of fisheries data, I very much hope that the Commission will engage in projects and studies looking at aquaculture in the environmental context but I believe that is the way forward in relation to the environment, not the way that is suggested in Amendments 7 to 13, and I hope honourable Members will reject them.
Under the 1993 directive, not only the diseased fish can be culled but also the farmed fish where individuals are affected, exactly like the case when one cow is sick in a herd and the whole herd is culled according to the principle of precaution.
There is another risk to the environment as well, because this disease is transmitted to wild fish, as we have seen.
I would like to thank Mr Hudghton for his excellent report on ISA and for broadly supporting the measures proposed by the Commission and also for the contributions from each of the speakers this evening.
The Commission proposal aims to ensure a more pragmatic approach towards controlling a disease that has the potential to cause important losses in salmon farms.
However, this cannot be allowed to compromise our objective of reducing and possibility eliminating ISA.
Nor can it be done, if the proposal involves a threat to public health.
The disease exists since 1984 and there is no report of it affecting human health or mammals.
The virus harms cold-blooded animals.
The Commission' s services are drawing up implementing rules in order to ensure the practical application of this instrument.
Council Decision 90/424 constitutes another instrument for Community financial support in case of disease outbreaks.
This is in particular the case for Amendments Nos 3 and 5.
The Commission included in its proposal a possibility for vaccination of salmon.
You also referred to the need for further scientific research on the nature of the disease.
I will follow very closely the results of this research and take it fully into account in future legislative proposals.
In this context I am happy to partly accept Amendment No 1, taking into account, however, that scientific investigations are not done by the Commission but that the Commission relies on results of investigations carried out in the Member States.
I also can partly accept the part of Amendment No 6 saying that Directive 93/53 should be amended as a result of scientific and technical evidence.
As I pointed out earlier, the available scientific evidence is that ISA is not a threat to health.
I can therefore agree to Amendment No 10 with the proviso that the words, and I quote, "of the highest possible standard" are replaced by "are safe" .
Fish escapes from aquaculture premises have been reported in the past and the virus has been found in wild stocks.
In this context, a number of scientific questions that can only be resolved through further research remain open.
The procedures for setting additional control measures that already exist in Community legislation will be used to establish withdrawal schemes based on the state of health of the fish in order to minimise a possible environmental impact.
I do not feel in a position to accept Amendments Nos 12 and 13.
It is my feeling that these amendments aim to achieve a zero risk.
I look forward to Parliament' s own views on these amendments and will take careful note if you believe that such an approach is the best way forward.
I can partly accept Amendment No 11.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that we continue to strive to maintain a high level of health protection in accordance with our obligations under the Treaty.
I hope that in accepting our proposal the European Parliament acknowledges our commitment and I would be very grateful for that.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Byrne.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
By now, my colleagues in the Fisheries Committee and indeed in the Parliament will be well aware of our commitment to technical conservation measures which are based on sound technical advice.
The body charged with giving this advice based on sound scientific data is the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna.
This intergovernmental fishery organisation of which the European Union is a member is responsible for the conservation of tuna and tuna-like species in the Atlantic and the adjacent seas including the Mediterranean.
This body was established back in March 1969 and is formally obliged to meet biannually, however the norm is that it meets annually and takes its decisions on the basis of scientific advice.
These panels are powered to initiate regulatory measures on species covered by the convention.
ICCAT also made recommendations in 1974, 1994 and 1996.
At its recent meeting in November 1998, the ICCAT standing committee on research and statistics was asked to perform a new assessment of the western Atlantic and eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna populations.
The measures agreed in November 1998 are binding since 21 June, I repeat 21 June 1999, months before the communication was forwarded to the Parliament' s Fisheries Committee and 9 months almost to the date.
Apparently, according to my information, the Fisheries Directorate-General sent a note last January to the Trade Directorate-General which is still on the preparatory work.
I do not suppose that anybody in this House would object to the principle of protecting juveniles of marine organisms.
The sheer volume of fish that are thrown back dead also means that any improvement in fisheries data is meaningless.
In February, Commission Regulation 394/2000 designed to protect Irish Sea cod stocks was issued.
It means that in Fleetwood, 30 inshore boats are tied up until the end of April.
This also shows that our committee is in total agreement when it comes to supporting measures which aim to protect species, such as tuna in this case.
Mr Fischler, I am delighted that the Commission responded favourably to our request in the last and constructive debate which we had on this issue and has asked to attend our next meeting this month to inform us about the future preparatory ICCAT meeting.
However, I must again congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Gallagher.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, Mr Fischler, my report concerns the vital integration of environmental and fisheries issues, as discussed at the ministerial meeting in Bergen.
The common fisheries policy is theoretically very demanding and very strict in this respect, perhaps more so than most people, both Europeans and non-Europeans, would believe.
The revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002 is the biggest time-limited challenge facing us.
I do not believe that the state of stocks and the current scandalous system of discards are a good example of the policy' s effectiveness which must therefore, in my opinion, be significantly improved.
However, I will just remind you that the meeting in Bergen showed very significantly that a proper policy on the sea must be created.
The oral question from our committee on the extremely serious consequences for fisheries of the accident involving the tanker Erika will also be considered tomorrow.
But that is nothing new.
Mr President, I too welcome your report Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, for as far as I can see, we share the same opinion where progress in the protection of fish stocks and ecosystems in the North Sea is concerned.
I would also like to remind you that similar measures had already been introduced for North Sea herring prior to this, in cooperation with Norway.
I am taking as read the fact that the implementation of the new regulation for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juvenile marine organisms as of 1 January this year will bring about a drastic improvement in the protection of juveniles, not just in the North Sea but also in all the other Community waters of the north-east Atlantic.
As you can see, these measures ought to provide greater selectivity.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The overall strategy of the Commission is to direct fisheries activities towards both economically and environmentally sustainable levels through management of the scarce resource in such a manner as to prevent its exhaustion through over-exploitation and/or environmental degradation.
In particular, the communication calls for control of fisheries pressure to benefit commercial stocks and marine aqua systems, improved measures for nature conservation in the marine environment, in the graded management of coastal areas, improved training, information transparency and a greater contribution from scientific research to fisheries management.
Furthermore, the Commission adopted an emergency regulation for a recovery plan for Irish Sea cod, effectively calling a halt to cod fishing in the Irish Sea between 14 February and 13 April due to the crisis in the species.
The first consideration must be to recognise that Community legislation must be reinforced and control mechanism procedures enhanced.
Thirdly, the European Union should undertake to enhance its monitoring and prevention of extensive pollution prevalent in Community waters and which is harmful to marine life including fishery resources.
A quota management system such as that existing in New Zealand since 1986 is one possible alternative.
The property right that has been created in such a system is the right to fish - not the fish themselves.
Such a market organisation can reap better long-term prospects for the fishing industry.
However, we should never blind ourselves to scientific research, we should never cease to gather information, we should never cease to explore improvements in existing systems and, if necessary, we should at least consider policy changes.
I recommend the report to the House.
The Environment Committee is generally pleased with the Commission' s communication and we are also pleased that the Fisheries Committee adopted all our amendments.
After all, the treaties have stipulated since 1992 that the precautionary principle and environmental protection should be integrated into Community policies.
All the good policies and regulations in the world will not lead to conservation without an effective system to ensure that the rules are respected.
This is a good step forward, but as the Commission and the Fisheries Committee continually point out, much improvement is needed in the control programmes of all Member States.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report.
According to these, for example, the meagre fisheries budget should have to finance artistic heritage or encourage tourism at sea.
As I have said many times before, the fisheries sector is more a victim than the cause of damage to the marine ecosystem and tomorrow we will be able to confirm this in the debate on the Erika.
Twenty million tonnes of unwanted catches are being thrown back.
The fleet must therefore use increasingly selective fishing gear.
This House has already indicated its opposition to driftnets and yet it is evident that certain countries are not only not respecting the undertaking to eliminate these nets but are increasing the number of vessels using these or simply not providing data given the passiveness of the national and Community authorities.
We socialists consider that to defend the common fisheries policy is to defend a regulated and controlled fisheries sector.
We should therefore very carefully monitor pollution from industrial activity, but also from domestic activity.
The Council of Europe is coming before the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 22 March to speak about the research work that must be undertaken, particularly in the marine environment and, more precisely, the scientific and economic challenges of exploiting the oceans.
In effect, this practice is responsible for a high death rate and is therefore incompatible with good fisheries management.
The EU must develop conditions that will create a balance between environmental considerations and all other interests.
A reduction in the fishing capacity and in pressure from the fishing industry on fish stocks is not necessarily compatible with maintaining an outdated fleet and would limit modernisation.
In addition to providing more appropriate conditions of safety and hygiene, the use of more modern vessels could also contribute to reducing certain major factors.
Secondly, it is true that a policy of preserving the marine environment must be practised both in Community seas and in international waters or those belonging to third countries.
Can I first of all congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report.
Conservation is something that I hear on many occasions and a lot of people pay lip service to it.
In actual fact they have had a moratorium imposed upon them without any recompense, without any real negotiation or discussion.
Now we all accept that there is a problem in conservation and a problem of stocks, but what I am really saying to you Commissioner, and I have said this to you in the Fisheries Committee and I will say it to you again: There is a wide divide between Brussels and the working fishermen.
And we have got to take on board the views of the fishermen.
Short-term measures alone benefit neither the stocks nor the fishermen.
You also recommend extending coastal waters from a 12 to a 24 mile zone.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The regulation is based on the principle of universality and uniformity underlying the procedure.
For this reason, it is proposed in my report that in cases of this kind, when main proceedings are already under way, further proceedings in the form of concurrent proceedings should only be permitted with the consent of the administrator of the main proceedings.
This qualification would constitute another important step in the direction of a closed, uniform, European legal system.
I believe Parliament should shift its emphasis here and would therefore urge those who have tabled amendments on this point to give it further thought.
This regulation lays down all conflict of law provisions in insolvency law in a compact, conclusive and binding manner, as a European legal norm, whilst upholding national systems of law in the matter.
Hence I would urge the Council to adopt the regulation as quickly as possible, taking Parliament' s proposals into account.
Mr President, I think we all agree that a European legal area must be created.
We therefore all agree on the established facts, and the draft regulation and the report are going in the right direction.
The first is to establish equivalence, saying: in the final analysis, bankruptcy in France is the same thing as bankruptcy in England or in Germany.
The second way is to recreate a law ex nihilo, that is to say, to harmonise the systems and completely overhaul all the concepts and legal systems in each of the Member States.
But at this stage I should like to make an observation, which is not technical, but more philosophical and taken from practice.
And I believe that it is our responsibility, in an ever more rapidly moving economy, where everyone must have a real opportunity, to give people the chance of running a commercial enterprise, and a second and a third chance, if necessary.
One of the reasons that explains the difference in competitiveness between the European area, for example and the United States, is precisely this ability of bouncing back that exists on the other side of the Atlantic and that we just do not have here.
As you all know, this convention was the result of many years of discussion, which was often difficult and often laborious, and that for this very reason, it represents a compromise between unitary and territorial principles, that is to say, the structural principles of the different legal insolvency proceedings in each of our Member States.
This is why it is important to try to find a legal frame of reference which can adapt to the new requirements of a global economy.
It was not the Commission that presented the present proposal for a regulation but two Member States, Germany and Finland, by means of a joint initiative under the right of initiative which Member States share with the Commission on such issues.
As far back as 1981, the Commission had already stated its position in favour of clearly adopting the principle of unitary insolvency proceedings.
Furthermore, this view was accepted in the Commission' s proposals on a parallel procedure concerning the liquidation of businesses.
The Commission feels, for this reason too, that it should not present a modified proposal for amendments to the regulation, but I would nevertheless like to convey to you the Commission' s opinions on the amendments under discussion.
The Commission therefore accepts Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 proposed by the rapporteur, Mr Lechner.
Indeed, the Commission feels that Parliament should instead support Amendment No 4 by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which would allow the annexes to the regulation to be modified by the Commission, assisted by a regulatory committee, in accordance with the on-going procedure of Article 5 of Decision 1999/468/EC.
With regard to the centre of main interests of a company or of a legal person, this idea is clearly defined in Article 3.
In all other cases that have not been specifically addressed, we feel that the reference made in Recital 13 should be sufficient.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
