Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 5 April.
Mr MacCormick, you are quite right and you will be pleased, since the three reports on waivers of immunity have been placed at the head of the agenda, after the Commission communication and before Mr Cashman' s report on public access to documents.
The Council can, however, attend the sitting of 14 May.
In my view, this answer, not the one you gave, Madam President, but the answer given by the Council, is unacceptable and we should not accept it. (Applause from the left) When I wrote to you on 25 April, you were, in fact, in favour of this yourself.
At that time, 17 prisoners had died.
Madam President, it would, of course, have been good if we could have debated this urgent matter here today.
We have also had a meeting on this subject today.
We should focus our efforts, following the great success we had just last week with a regulation on transparency and access to documents, so that in future it goes without saying that the Council of Ministers, which is always welcome here, is not only welcomed by us when it is willing to attend, but rather that the Council should always be present here in future. (Applause) Mr Poettering, I fully agree with what you have said, and, as you know, I have already spoken to the Council about this matter, following a debate at the Conference of Presidents, where we all made this comment and fervently hoped that the Council would be available to attend, as you have said.
Madam President, I do not know whether our actions over the last two days will be successful.
The positions in Turkey are clearly evident today.
We can find a solution in two days.
We shall see what happens over the next two or three days and, in May, all of us in this House shall shoulder our responsibilities.
The report by Lord Inglewood, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the accounts of certain types of companies, was only approved on 24 April.
The debate could, therefore, be included in the agenda and the vote could take place at the second May part-session in Strasbourg.
You will recall that this vote was postponed at the sitting of 3 April.
Speeches relating to procedure Madam President, as you know many of us are very concerned with the prestige and reputation of this Parliament and for that reason I rise in connection with the procedures concerning the lifting of Mr Berlusconi's immunity.
Secondly, the Spanish Government has transmitted a new request to the Italian authorities without waiting for the opinion of the Council of State of Spain, which is ostensibly the reason why it has not yet replied to the European Parliament.
Thirdly, again according to the press, the Spanish anti-corruption prosecutor, Carlos Castresana, has written asking you to investigate the delay.
Mr Corbett, I would like to thank you for raising this issue as a point of order, as this gives me the opportunity to give the House some extremely important information.
At the Conference of Presidents, three decisions were taken.
The first decision was to ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to draw up a substantive document on how requests for waivers of immunity should be dealt with in general.
In these circumstances, as in others - I am thinking of the procedures for requests to withdraw a fellow Member' s mandate, or for other things - you realise that Rule 6 does, in actual fact, seem rather inadequate.
I would repeat that this is an extremely important and serious matter which affects both this institution and the guarantee that every Member must be able to legitimately enjoy.
I do not know if she is present, but I would like to pass on my deepest condolences to her.
I have some very important information and I would like to thank Mr Corbett for mentioning the Council of Europe.
If I had not acted in the way I did, Mr Corbett, I would have had deep regrets.
Referring this matter to the Council of Europe, therefore, fully endorses the approach that I took when this matter first arose.
I sincerely hope that the Supreme Court informs me why there are two different ways of dealing with this, one way for this Parliament and another way for the Council of Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a month now, the Somme valley has been flooded, affecting the region of Amiens and the town of Abbeville in particular, which is where I live, and the surrounding area.
The situation is particularly worrying, because as well as the natural disaster, experts are predicting that water levels will take a very long time to subside and it could take several months.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union should also take part in this solidarity, in other words, by providing considerable financial aid, bearing in mind that the cost of the damage will amount to several billion French francs.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, I would like to say that the President of this Parliament has behaved quite properly in this matter, and to express our full support for you on this, Madam President. (Applause from the right) It is amazing that the Socialist Group has raised this subject in debate during every part-session, either here in Brussels or else in Strasbourg.
Mr Corbett, you say you are concerned about the reputation of the European Parliament.
What you are really worried about is the election campaign in Italy, and you want to influence that campaign by enabling your political friends to benefit from a debate here in Brussels. (Applause from the right) However, unlike the President, I am free to express my own opinion, because things are being insinuated here, and to comment on the fact that Mrs Garaud, for whom I have great respect, has so far not been able to travel to Madrid.
It was unanimously agreed that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs chaired by our esteemed colleague Mr Napolitano, who is not a member of my group, should now draft a report on how we deal with the procedures for waiving immunity.
With regard to the latest information that I have just provided, I have the impression that you might not have fully understood - perhaps there was a problem with the translation - this does not relate to the Council of State, this relates to a request for a waiver that was submitted by the Supreme Court at the Council of Europe, not long ago, and I clarified that this request was sent by the Spanish government' s mission, and this happened very recently.
Madam President, thank you for your explanation.
In connection with it, I would first of all like to point out that you commissioned a study, at my request, in which two things were clear: firstly, that there were different types of treatment, and secondly, and I would like to stress this, that no request had ever remained in the drawers of the Bureau of Parliament for nine months.
I have said this to you in public and in private.
My Group still considers that this issue should be announced in public.
But also, Madam President, although the Secretary-General of the PPE insists that the Socialist International is behind everything, they are not going to tell me that we control media such as The Economist, El Mundo, Le Monde, Handesblat and even the Los Angeles Times.
Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have these powers and what is more, even if we had them, we would not use them.
And you are of the same political group as the President of Parliament and the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Please do me the favour of answering the House. (Applause from the left) You have just done a great job in showing that this issue is certainly of a political nature.
Therefore, I believe that this condition must be fulfilled before this is done, as well as the announcement to Parliament and the referral to committee, a point also laid down in the Rule 5(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
It is a problem, if you will allow me, associated with the happy event of the growth of Europe in the context of a Europe of justice, the area of justice, because here the Supreme Court is arguing that appeals can be made to the European Parliament just as they can to national parliaments.
We do not want voluntarism, which, as you so rightly said, Madam President, would only lead us to the Court of Justice. (Applause from the right) Madam President, it seems clear that we face in all these issues two critical imperatives: on the one side, it is vitally important that democratic deliberation in an assembly of this kind goes forward without unfair impediment or abuse of legal processes to deter Members from exercising their democratic mandate properly.
That is very important.
That is why it is so important in these cases that the House becomes seized as quickly as possible of the question whether what is before us is an abuse of the legal process in terrorem democratiae or whether on the other hand this is a case where something is being done which ought to be tried in the ordinary courts in the case of any ordinary citizen, for we are all ordinary citizens as well as legislators.
It is very regrettable that this issue has become a matter of long drawn-out deliberation in the executive branch of a Member State because that is exactly the wrong place for these vital issues to be debated.
The situation in my country is very delicate.
The question is very complex.
This is a matter that goes far beyond political partisanship, and concerns, or should concern, all members of this House, for it concerns the dignity and functioning of our institution.
Mr Manisco, I do understand that some Members are finding that this matter is dragging on.
You will understand that as soon as the government of the Member State concerned informs me that the matter has been referred to the Council of State, I will act when the Council of State has delivered an opinion, when the Spanish government informs me who in actual fact is considered in Spain to be the appropriate authority to issue these requests for immunity.
I was making a point on behalf of this Parliament.
Madam President, I too had not intended to take the floor, but this issue has now occupied our attention for three-quarters of an hour.
In the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, all of the group leaders present made a very great effort to try to understand the precedents, to try to understand the complexity and to try to arrive at a reasoned and fair decision.
I believe the decision that was arrived at at the Conference of Presidents reflected a consensus view, which was a collective wisdom, and you have enunciated that view here today.
On 28 August last, you requested the assistance of the Spanish authorities on the issue of the competent authority to transmit this document.
The delay has been unwarranted and undignified and it has cast you in a light and in a role where you do not properly belong.
One was an Italian case which came as a direct reference from a court.
The second was one of three cases to lift the immunity of a Member, as it happened I think from Spain.
All this has left you in a very difficult and delicate position, Madam President.
Thank you, Mr Tajani.
It is contrary to Articles 47 and 48, of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which you, Madam President, signed.
Every EU citizen has the right to a fair trial and should be deemed innocent until proven guilty.
The video evidence that we saw in Court showed that my constituent, Mark Forrester, was not involved in any way, shape or form with any violence.
Mark Forrester is innocent and we will carry on that fight to prove that he is innocent and to clear his name.
Thank you, Mrs Lynne.
Madam President, very soon the European Parliament will vote on public access to documents.
In Ireland, the only country in the European Union which will vote on the Treaty of Nice, I am informed by my constituents that the Irish Government is not providing copies of the Treaty of Nice, but only its White Paper on the Treaty.
EU/UN partnership on development and humanitarian issues Commissioner, please accept my most sincere apologies, but you are a fervent supporter of transparency.
President Prodi met with Secretary-General Annan in October 2000 and visited Geneva in January this year.
I have met the Secretary-General and most of the Heads of all the UN agencies over the last 18 months.
This must result in better coordination and more coherence.
The EC finances activities carried out by UN agencies at an average of EUR 354 million per year.
Making better use of those assets is one of the reasons for presenting this communication.
The Communication focuses on the administrative environment necessary to reach these objectives.
We need: A successful conclusion of the ongoing negotiations on a Verification Clause, giving the EC controllers satisfactory access to information about the use of EC funds.
A re-negotiation of the 1999 EC/UN Framework Agreement to focus, in co-financing operations, on output-based budgeting and upstream programme funding.
Finally, the Communication adopted today sends an important message to our UN partners: The EC is proposing to intensify cooperation on EC priorities that match key capabilities of UN agencies.
To ensure smooth cooperation on this, strong UN inter-agency coordination is required.
The EC is suggesting amending legal and administrative provisions governing EC/UN financial cooperation.
The Commission hopes and expects that this will be met with flexibility from UN negotiators in recognition of the special role and status of the European Community in the work of the UN institutions.
This in turn should lead to an improvement of our own efficiency and effectiveness, both in the policy and operational domain, and in turn, to a sizeable improvement in the quality and impact of EC development and humanitarian policies and activities.
Improving EC/UN policy and operational cooperation in the development and humanitarian fields is conditional to the UN strengthening in-house coordination, focusing its thematic strengths along the lines of its ongoing reform process and pursuing negotiations on the legal and financial cooperation framework.
Finally, reflecting on his point about United Commissions or United Nations, how far will the Member States go along with this.
This is a point that has taken prominence in Indonesia and in the Jaffna area of Sri Lanka where the UNHCR has been doing an excellent job in trying to rehabilitate and give support to people.
The second question is really more broadly addressed to Parliament: are we going to set up a permanent standing liaison committee of MEPs involved with development and cooperation to report to the General Assembly of the United Nations each year on our joint cooperation?
As Mr Howitt mentioned, thematic cooperation must include education and the fight against poverty.
We have obtained a communication from the Commission concerning the EU' s contribution to the conference for the poorest countries, but I wonder: will there also be a communication from the Commission about the efforts being made to prepare for the special session in September 2001?
Finally, for the special meeting in September, the Commission is planning to have a strong presence and make a strong contribution.
Mr President, we have taken good note of this decision by the Commission.
We would have liked to have had the opportunity to discuss this matter with the Commission before it took the decision.
We were not able to do so, but in any event, I wish to say that we have no objection, in principle, to the idea of closer cooperation, which would lead to more effective and more appropriate action by the European Union.
There, the main reason why we should support the UN instances is that they very often have the special mandate to do things where they have access and where others may have great difficulties.
Mr Miranda, quite frankly the Commission is not proposing anything today, which would surprise those who have been discussing these issues with me over recent years.
We will discuss it and it is important that we try to work out the same kind of well-informed consensus on this step as we managed to do on the overall policy paper.
Mr Khanbhai, this discussion about the global fund is in one way easy to understand and we can quite sympathetically step up the effort against communicable diseases to the extent that the creation of this fund actually mobilises new and additional money from new private sources.
The reality on the ground is the bottleneck and we should never forget this in this discussion.
There are many fashions of the month in the discussion on these issues and I will be quite stubborn, with the support from this House, and stick to what we have defined.
My second question refers to the identity of Community aid, which is one of our fundamental pillars and which is focused on the non-governmental sector.
There is more of an acceptance of the need for a professional manner of work also among humanitarian NGOs, and of the need and the obligation to accept coordination as part of our contracts with anybody we are funding.
I have already mentioned protection and security.
This is one of the aspects I mentioned in connection with the special mandate of some of these global UN organisations so we need a division of labour between specialised NGOs and the umbrella, in some cases, of UN organisations.
But we also have the global system and it is in order not to exclude that type of partnership that we are doing what we are now.
The first inspection is carried out at the General Assembly which is held between September and December.
My second question relates to the United Nations' refugee work.
Mental health is the fastest growing cause of disability.
In general, what the EU Member States are doing in the political negotiating processes in the General Assembly is quite well coordinated.
If it is good enough for a Member State to do this together with a UN organisation and have its reporting accepted, it should be good enough for the European Union to do basically the same.
But we can only do this when we have the financial regulation changed.
I hope we will in this way be able to build up confidence and thus stimulate efficiency.
Mr Bowis, I agree that the issue of mental health is a very large one.
From a human point of view this needs more attention.
We are trying to keep the broad picture of all these diseases at the top of the agenda.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the principles that have guided us in writing this report and which are, as we have seen in the previous debate, fundamental to this Parliament.
The first principle that must hold sway here is to disregard, as far as possible, all public opinion when we have to deal with a report on a request for the waiver of immunity, as well as to abstain, as far as possible, from judging or prejudging the Member of Parliament involved, something that is not always easy.
The second principle is that we must always act in accordance with the law, with respect for both the law of the Member State and also what is becoming parliamentary law, for substantive rules and formal rules, which imposes a strict obligation upon us to be consistent with decisions we have made in the past.
That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken the view, as it has in similar cases, namely those involving Portuguese Members of Parliament, that there was a link, albeit tenuous, between what he said and his political affiliation and political views.
I will develop this point in my forthcoming speeches.
Mr President, like the previous speakers, I believe that we should use the Sichrovsky case, which we are discussing today, as an opportunity to go beyond matters of pure routine and to reflect on the logic or otherwise of parliamentary immunity.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
All this betrays an attitude of mind which has been played down here over many years.
Mr President, to continue what I was saying earlier, in actual fact, as we have seen in this Chamber, we very often find ourselves talking about immunity or about requests for waiver of immunity, according to procedures, application methods and characteristics which differ according to the origins or allegiance, whether national or political - more national than political if the truth be known, of each of us.
Today, someone has raised this issue, which seemed to me, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, never to have been analysed before.
We would also have expected a similar clarification of a fundamental point in the case of the lawsuit brought by Jörg Haider against our fellow Member Johannes Voggenhuber, by which I mean establishing whether or not the Freedom Party is a fascist, neo-fascist, or post-fascist party.
In order to establish the facts of the matter, Johannes Voggenhuber, in contrast to his colleague Mr Sichrovsky, has himself asked for his immunity to be waived.
However, for reasons of principle, which I support, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has been unable to accede to this request.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11a.m.
However, I would like to take this opportunity to remind the previous speaker - not the rapporteur, the Member who spoke before him - that the immunity is Parliamentary immunity, not immunity of the individual Members, that the European Parliament expresses its self-protection through its Members and that the will of the Members who find that they are the subject of a request for waiver of immunity has no bearing on the situation, because each one of us represents the entire Parliament, not himself or herself.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.a.m.
I am happy to say that I stand before you today to ask Parliament to endorse a compromise text, as this House requested of me in November 2000.
I, Hanja Maij-Weggen, my ex-co-rapporteur, and all the draftsmen of opinions and some shadows for the other Committees embarked on a series of meetings with the Council and the Commission, latterly called trialogues, in order to reach this compromise.
Of course the text does not go as far as we would have liked.
I am the first to admit that, but it was a priority for me and my co-rapporteur Hanja Maij-Weggen to complete the dossier in line with the Treaty deadline, so that the institutions could not be accused of failing to deliver for the citizen under Article 232 of the Treaty.
The standpoints of the three institutions were difficult to reconcile in such a short space of time and even the Council, under the wonderful Swedish Presidency, found it difficult to achieve a political consensus, or at least a qualified majority, within itself.
We have established a self-evolving text which, I am sure, will be improved upon in the course of time.
The compromise text revolutionises the rights and procedures for access to documents of the institutions and sets in motion the enshrining of freedom of information in the EU and in Member States' national legislation.
It is the first common framework for the three institutions which recognises the citizen's rights so that the citizen no longer relies on the goodwill of each Institution.
Access to documents regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the EU governing bodies accountable, stimulates greater efficiency and enhances democracy.
The text would not have been possible without the hard work and commitment of the Swedish Presidency.
Indeed, it is part of our responsibility as deputies of this Parliament to protect the security of our citizens and the institutions.
This new regime means that every document is considered on a case-by-case basis without blanket exceptions and documents concerning security and defence are by no means excluded from the Regulation.
Under this compromise text, the Council is obliged to repeal or amend the Solana Decision of August 2000 so that it conforms to the principles of this Regulation.
There is assumption in favour of access to the public for all documents in all areas of the Union's activities and access will only be denied to those in areas which directly relate to a listed exception.
Documents from third parties will be accessible for the first time and agencies or bodies created by the institutions will also apply the Regulation.
If a document is excepted, or parts of the document are excepted, those parts of the document which are not excepted will be made public, and the exceptions will only apply for a limited maximum of thirty years, except in some cases.
Fifthly, national legislation which goes beyond this Regulation - and this is a sensitive area for the country that I come from - should not be hindered by this Regulation.
We also have to take into account the fact that the Ombudsman and the Court of Justice have, over the years, been improving the rules in force on public access to documents and making them much more specific.
First of all, it is worth mentioning that these talks during the Swedish Presidency have been going on in camera.
Parliament has often been able to bring pressure on the Council of Ministers to make improvements to their proposals in accordance with its own objectives through various stages of the codecision procedure.
This is thus a question of these sensitive documents making it possible for the Council of Ministers in particular to conceal a large number of documents.
There are different ways of improving transparency in the EU' s institutions, but far and away the best and most effective way is to have generous rules concerning access to documents, combined with open registers.
Such rules increase public confidence in the institutions and make it possible for people to participate in the decision-making process.
The European Parliament emphasised the importance of greater transparency in the EU' s institutions early on.
As the country holding the Presidency during the first six months of this year, we believe that we have an obligation to do everything in our power to head up the work on implementing those rules which were in fact incorporated into the Treaty of Amsterdam.
First and foremost, there was a political commitment to have the new rules on transparency ready by May of this year.
The compromise text on which Parliament has now to adopt a position therefore constitutes progress towards a citizens' Europe and progress for democracy.
I am convinced that, in the long term, the new rules will also mean significantly positive changes to the institutions' administrative culture and to officials' relationship with the general public.
As the country holding the Presidency, our task has not been to import either Swedish or other Member States' national rules on the public accessibility of documents into the institutions.
According to the proposal, the Commission must by 31 January 2004 at the latest - in good time for the next parliamentary election - present a comprehensive report on how the rules on transparency have operated in practice.
The very fact that the institutions managed to agree about an issue on which it was uniquely difficult to negotiate but which was crucial to public confidence in the EU - and to have done so within the period promised in the Treaty of Amsterdam - provides hope for the future, in my opinion.
I am convinced that future generations of Europeans will remember what happened on 2 and 3 May 2001.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of clear rules for public access to documents is absolutely essential, both in terms of the proper functioning of the Community institutions and also, as has just been mentioned, in order to reinforce the institutions' democratic legitimacy in the eyes of the European Union' s citizens.
Mrs Lejon, I would like to say how pleased I am to see that following many months of intensive work, the representatives of the three institutions have managed to draw up a text, which I believe is both clear and balanced, and which been approved by the Committee on Citizens' Freedom and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs of this Parliament, the Committee of Permanent Representatives of the Member States and the Commission itself.
As the rapporteurs stressed earlier, the draft regulation represents a major step forward compared to current practices and, as a result, it brings the Community system a step closer to the system used by the Member States that are the most advanced in the field of transparency.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission believes that this text does indeed strike a fair balance between the specific characteristics of each institution and the practices within the Member States.
The Commission is, therefore, perfectly aware of the fact that the main responsibility for implementing the regulation on public access to documents will fall on its shoulders.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in implementing this regulation, we are doing the institutions and citizens of the European Union a good turn.
To vote against the proposal because 100 per cent of what was desired has not been achieved would be frivolous.
I should nonetheless like to add something to that picture - not take the victory away from the Swedish Presidency, but nonetheless supplement the picture.
Mr President, as shadow rapporteur, I should, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, first of all like to thank the rapporteurs for the high level of commitment they have shown in their bid to reach a compromise with the Council and Commission on the Regulation, which is informally referred to in the Netherlands as the "Euro-WOB" .
Needless to say, I, like many MEPs, including Mr Cashman and Mrs Maij-Weggen, would have liked to see more disclosure on a number of scores in the proposal, but to many Member States, that appeared to be a bridge too far.
The compromise receives our unqualified support, as it represents in our eyes the result which is most viable.
But under heavy political pressure from both Parliament and a number of Member States, this list has been cut down considerably, with a ceiling put in place.
At the same time, I regret that as a result of the heavy resistance of a number of Member States, among others, certain points were not included in the compromise.
Also, in my view, all documents should have been included in the public register, where now an exception is made for confidential documents.
If in the evaluation in January 2004, it appears that the Regulation does not guarantee sufficient disclosure and that the percentage of sensitive documents is too high, then it is up to Parliament to do something about this.
The Swedish Presidency, in tandem with a number of Member States as well as Parliament, has bent over backwards to reach a compromise before 1 May.
It is certainly thanks to Parliament' s persistent pressurising that there is now a better proposal before us, and I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs warmly on this.
Mr President, we will be voting for the Regulation, but I will not make a song and dance about it.
It is a fact that the compromise proposal still contains weak areas, such as the grounds for exception, the documents of third parties in Article 4, the secret documents of Article 9, and I could mention a few more, but the improvements definitely outweigh the weaknesses.
In addition, we can identify a number of liberal touches in the compromise: the agencies in recital 8, the exceptions which do not apply in the event of a predominantly public interest in Article 4, the register of Article 9 and the annual report of each institution, listing refusals in Article 17.
Mr President, in the thick of euphoria, people who vote against the Regulation are immediately accused of adopting a clean-hands policy or eloping into fantasy, but my group has fundamental objections to a number of aspects in this proposal, and I refuse to sweep them under the carpet.
It is not necessary to include sensitive documents in the register, and the Court of Justice cannot verify whether this decision is justified.
Sensitive documents constitute a black hole in this agreement on disclosure of information, and the right to information simply becomes an act of goodwill.
The process concerning transparency and public access to documents has, of course, been conducted for a long time behind hermetically sealed doors.
There is, of course, no doubt about the fact that these rules will be of decisive importance to the rules in all member States, but large parts of the rapporteurs' presentation have been vague and it has been very difficult to get clear information about the whys and wherefores.
I think the European Parliament has played a difficult role in this, and I think it is also transparently obvious that the European Parliament' s own interests have, from time to time, unfortunately overshadowed the public' s interests.
Article 5 undoubtedly involves a deterioration in the current rules governing public access to, and scrutiny of, public documents as practised, for example, in the Scandinavian countries.
These negotiations have taken place in the strictest confidence, with all the small groups excluded.
The major groups have gone through this process without the rest of us being involved at all in these negotiations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate the Swedish Presidency and the rapporteur on their initiative.
I hope that we will go further than this expression of intent, this declaration, and that in future unlimited access to documents will be guaranteed.
In one or two years' time we will be able to review whether this regulation has really been a success.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the negotiations on the proposal for a regulation on public access to documents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the Committee on Budgets considered an opinion on this which I myself drafted.
The second main point is the statement that documents produced by the institutions should be made public as a matter of principle.
It constitutes substantial progress in relation to the present situation.
Is it not progress that the secrecy rules which we have, which we recognise must exist and which exist in all those countries which have made the most progress of all in this area, are relatively few in number and, moreover, quite out in the open?
Other speakers have outlined its direct benefits to the citizen, but to me tomorrow's vote must mark the beginning of a change in the culture of the European institutions from secrecy to openness.
Some argued that delay would give us a better deal, but the overwhelming majority on my committee decided not to make the best the enemy of the good, believing that this proposed regulation gives us a framework for progress.
The wording concerning sensitive documents is too general and too vague.
Mr President, transparency and the right to study the contents of documents are central elements of a living democracy, but the proposal on which we are now to adopt a position and which concerns access to EU documents is a disappointment.
National rules are subordinate to an EU Regulation.
Paragraph 14 of this Regulation also specifies that the Member States must be loyal to the contents of the Regulation.
At present, we in practice operate with common minimum rules governing transparency.
The EU Regulation makes the rules the same in every country.
The Member States will now be obliged to conform to the common rules and consult the EU authorities before they make documents available.
See also recital 5a concerning the actual decision-making process, recital 7 concerning countries' right to classify documents, recital 9 concerning personal information which, for example, makes it more difficult to know who sits on the 1 500 committees, and Article 6a, Paragraph 3 which excludes sensitive information from the registers.
Transparency and the new ceiling are accompanied by a new procedure in which three opponents of transparency such as France, Spain and Germany are able to block progress on transparency, even if the whole of the European Parliament and twelve national parliaments are in agreement concerning a little more transparency.
At present, progress can be made by means of pressure from the ombudsman, decisions by the Court of Justice or a simple majority in the Council of Ministers, that is to say eight out of fifteen countries.
From tomorrow, any progress will require 62 out of 87 votes in the Council, and the Court of Justice and the countries in favour of transparency will not be able to help us obtain clear rules in the Regulation.
It would be in the greater interests of transparency if we were to defer the decision today and see how the Council and the Commission are to interpret the new rules.
The various forms of progress have, of course, been decided upon ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many of us have recently had difficult personal experiences of how hard it is to obtain certain documents.
However, I shall be pleased if this regulation means we can ensure that not just Members of the European Parliament, but all citizens of the European Union are given real access to all documents.
If the transparency called for in this regulation actually becomes a principle of the institutions of the European Union, then we will have taken a great step forward.
I say that because the few exceptions exist for reasons of security and in order to protect the right to privacy.
Anyone who is against secrecy being observed in these few exceptional cases has to be against the security interests of the European Union and also against protection of the right to privacy.
We need a review in 2004 to highlight any shortcomings in what appears to be a very positive system, and, should it be necessary, to take further steps to ensure that the principle to which we are pledging ourselves - the transparency of the institutions of the European Union - really is thoroughly implemented.
In the USA, the Freedom of Information Act costs USD 40 million every year.
I believe that we should not be holier-than-thou about this, but that we should make a start here in this House when it comes to transparency.
In some Member States, including Sweden and the Netherlands, there are more far-reaching rules governing access to documents.
The Liberal Group views this Regulation as a compromise involving a certain amount of progress but also containing certain shortcomings.
We shall vote in favour of it tomorrow as a first step on the long journey ahead of us in terms of opening the institutions of the EU up to the people.
We shall also take the lead in establishing still better rules in a couple of years' time for, in spite of everything, transparency has the future on its side.
The principle which prevailed in tsarist Russia now holds true for the system of public access to European Union documents.
The documents are publicly available, but their secrecy is assured by derogations.
Last summer, a majority in Parliament approved a framework agreement with the Commission on the subject of public access to documents, one that places the various Members of the European Parliament in unequal positions.
I do not welcome the secret negotiations, as a result of which the small groups and interest groupings have hardly been able to play a role at all.
This report does not go as far as I would like.
It does not go as far as I hoped, but it does go further than I expected, as Parliament and the Swedish Presidency dragged the Commission and Council far closer to our position than they ever expected to be.
The annual reports and the promised follow-up report in January 2004 may well prove that this report, this agreement, is not the beginning of the end but the end of the beginning.
The new rules are a stage in the cultural revolution that is needed if the EU is to develop into a modern, efficient and democratic form of cooperation which citizens in fact have confidence in.
Many here today have criticised the present compromise, and in the case of a compromise there will always be something to criticise.
Transparency is an advantage, not only for democracy but also for the authorities to which it extends.
The Commission should forget the lack of public access that characterised its first proposal and straightforwardly adopt the new proposal and the new spirit.
The compromise reached in the negotiations concerning public access to EU documents is in no way what I would have wished for at the start of the negotiations, and it contains weaknesses, as has already been pointed out.
Let us hope that this debate also strikes home with our southern European MEPs, for those countries might need public transparency more than anyone else.
The President is not authorised to reply to the allusion as to whether or not there are Members from the South present.
The debate and vote on the first draft report was held on 16 November 2000.
The European Parliament's Conference of Presidents also gave their clear political support.
The mandate given under Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure was, and I quote, "to table amendments seeking to reach a compromise", in order to adopt the Regulation in a single reading and within the date set in the Treaty to implement Article 255.
The series of trialogue meetings, discussions between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, took place from January to March 2001.
Things move on.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
It is not by chance that Macedonia is the first country we are signing an agreement of this kind with.
Ever since it was created, this country has been extremely cooperative and constructive towards its neighbours and consequently also towards the European Union.
A newly shaped and improved relationship between the Slavic Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority is dependent on a greater desire for tolerance and acceptance on both sides, and also on integration and solidarity.
Alongside the need for regional cooperation and free movement across borders it is also important to shape the joint state of Macedonia.
However, the Albanian population of Macedonia, who belong to a people which is represented in several different states, needs to be particularly sensitive in how it takes account of doubts and fears about this idea.
The agreement that we are to decide upon tomorrow will particularly help to solve the economic and social problems of this country.
But I would also particularly like to thank the representatives of the European Union, Javier Solana, Chris Patten, and the Commission representative in Skopje for their commitment.
Macedonia can solve its current problems by working with the European Union and in return we can certainly find better solutions to the problems of this region by working with Macedonia.
On that note, I wish every success not only to the agreement but also to Macedonia itself in tackling this difficult task. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could actually say that Johannes Swoboda has said it all.
The speed with which we are acting is also due to the fact that we simply want to show that Parliament is backing this country, Macedonia, and we also want to help it to overcome the current crisis as quickly as possible.
Of course we are also pleased that in Macedonia this House has totally subscribed to the European ideal and given its assent to this agreement.
This demonstrates whom Parliament has decided in favour of.
However, we must also make it clear in Macedonia that this Union is a Union of values.
That is why I believe that in Macedonia it is necessary to work together, across party political lines, taking account of this tolerance threshold.
I think Johannes Swoboda said that too, but perhaps he did not say it as emphatically as I have done.
In my conversations with former President Kligorov he repeatedly told me that he recognised this and was seeking to take action.
I must also say, however, that the former government did not necessarily pay sufficient heed to these appeals.
I very much hope that all reasonable politicians in Macedonia will, in view of the new European window of opportunity opened up by this agreement, jointly launch yet more initiatives to achieve a functioning Macedonian society.
But I would also like to appeal to the international community, to UNMIK and to KFOR, to do everything possible to help Macedonia by pursuing a better and more consistent policy in Kosovo, because the dissatisfaction there is releasing ever more terrorist potential.
The most important thing, however, is political stability, because only if that exists will companies move there.
Mr President, today we endorse Mr Swoboda's recommendation which, like all his work, is excellent.
I therefore call upon you, ladies and gentlemen to do whatever you can to stop this escalation of violence while it is still possible, while there is still a chance of success and you still have the strength.
Mr President, I had the pleasure of taking a delegation of Members from my group, firstly on a visit last month to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and then last week to Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Kosovo.
We believe that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement concluded between the European Union and the Republic of Macedonia plays a part, albeit a modest one, in achieving this.
It was signed on 9 April 2001 and was ratified by Parliament just three weeks later, and in my view, this agreement represents a step forward for Macedonia, the region and the European Union.
It is a step forward for Macedonia, since, in addition to the considerable funding provided by financial aid worth EUR 62 million since the beginning of this year and the opportunity to export its products to the fifteen countries of the EU, free from customs duties, the political significance of this agreement is a decisive factor.
Other similar agreements must be signed in the same spirit with Croatia, Yugoslavia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Albania and the next step should be to accept their candidature for joining the European Union.
My group, in any case, has decided to make a determined effort to achieve this.
Mr President, establishing relations between the European Union and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on a new, innovative basis and offering that country the prospect, albeit in the long term, of joining the European Union' s structures through the measures provided for in the Stabilisation and Association Process would, I think, be a major contribution to the stability of the Balkan region.
Now that the agreement has been concluded, we hope that its clauses will represent a great step towards peace and stability in the region, whose peoples have already demonstrated that their aspirations to become part of our area of freedom and development are legitimate.
With the recent acts of aggression that have been committed at the border and perpetrated against that country' s civilian population and armed forces, the important thing now is to support the efforts of the Macedonian government and people to maintain the stability of the country and to encourage the government and the moderate Albanian parties to avoid destructive and confrontational positions.
Mr President, Representative of the Commission - who is not here - representative of the Council, I would like to start by making a preliminary statement about democracy and to stress - and here I am addressing our esteemed fellow parliamentarians from the Republic of Macedonia - that the issue of democracy, the problems of democracy, do not concern your country alone.
In a country in which I was elected, Italy, at this moment, one of our fellow Members, Emma Bonino, is reaching her 113th hour of a hunger strike, and this is over a matter of democracy, because in Italy, a country of the European Union, the conditions of democracy, of democratic participation in elections are not guaranteed.
What I am trying to say is that democracy is a serious issue, an issue that concerns us, and something as serious as what is happening in Italy now and concerns the debate and the capacity ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Dupuis, I wish to make a suggestion, which is that you restrict yourself to the issue under discussion and leave matters of Italian domestic politics for another occasion.
Mr President, I was just about to say that the issue of information is also fundamental.
Mr President, until it is proved otherwise, we are still free to say what we want, we are still a democracy.
A great deal more will be needed, and here I am addressing our fellow parliamentarians from Macedonia: the conditions have to be restored for genuine dialogue, there must be proper non-manipulative analysis of the real issues concerning, in particular, the Albanian minority, the cumulative frustrations suffered by this minority but also by other Albanian communities.
There are federalistic solutions - and I refer to the case of Belgium, for example, which invented the concept of community federalism, in which, for matters more directly related to the relationship between the citizens and their institution, which may include culture, education and even health, it would be possible to conceive of a federalism which would not bring about territorial division in Macedonia but which would provide the substantial Albanian minority with institutions to represent it too and, therefore, with autonomous control at least over the areas which concern it most directly.
I believe that our fellow parliamentarians from Macedonia should be able to view these proposals for a solution without fear or suspicion, for they are the channels through which a climate can be established in which the two great communities that make up Macedonia today can coexist peacefully.
Mr President, Saturday' s bloody border incident is a serious setback for those forces in Macedonian society which advocate peaceful, ethnic coexistence within a Macedonian state.
The western world, and the European Union too, on the other hand, have not always behaved impeccably towards Macedonia.
The active role which the High Representative Solana and Commissioner Patten have managed to play during the recent disturbances in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a shining example of this positive effect.
Mr President, following the fall of the Milosevic regime on 1 October 2000 and the ensuing democratic changes which took place in Belgrade, the European Union has radically changed its policy towards Serbia.
In the Union's message to the Serbian people last September the foreign minister said that the Union promised that a vote for democracy in Serbia would be a vote for Serbia in Europe.
After the democratic transition in Serbia, the Union lifted its sanctions to repeal the oil embargo against Serbia and the Union lifted flight bans.
The European Union is right to be active in contributing to the institutional and economic rebuilding that is presently taking place within the former Republic of Yugoslavia.
The overall financial assistance from the Union to the states which comprise the former Republic of Yugoslavia now amounts to EUR 475 million.
It is providing political support by steadfastly backing the policy of reconciliation being applied by the government in our neighbouring country to the extremely difficult, the terribly difficult internal problems which it faces and it is providing international support in that it has officially called on NATO to prevent the anarchy which other areas in the region are endeavouring to import via our neighbouring country.
As Commission Patten said at the weekend, this was an attack against democracy, an attack designed to derail the interparty dialogue that has recently begun in Fyrom on interethnic relations, a dialogue which the European Union has strongly supported.
That is why the signature of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Fyrom which took place in Luxembourg on 9 April was such an important event.
The negotiations were launched by the Commission on 5 March 2000.
Thanks to excellent cooperation with the Macedonian authorities, the negotiations were concluded within nine months and the agreement was initialled in the margins of the Zagreb Summit on 24 November.
The main elements of the agreement are the establishment of a free trade area between the Community and Fyrom within a ten-year period after the entry into force of the agreement, the establishment of a political dialogue, provisions on regional cooperation provisions on the freedom of movement of workers, freedom of establishment, supply of services, a commitment by the Fyrom authorities to approximate legislation to that of the European Community especially in the internal market, cooperation in areas such as justice and home affairs, establishment of a stabilisation and association council that supervises the implementation of the agreement.
The interim agreement also signed on 9 April provides for the trade-related provisions of the agreement to enter into force from 1 June 2001, without having to wait for the formal ratification of the agreement by national parliaments.
This agreement and Parliament's support for it underline the European Union's commitment to Fyrom's wellbeing and the confidence in our people.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Nuclear safety fifteen years after Chernobyl The next item is the Commission statement on nuclear safety fifteen years after the Chernobyl accident and its health consequences.
We also recognise the huge economic burden this accident has put on Belarus, Russia and Ukraine and other countries and the problems for the population in contaminated regions to restore normal living conditions.
On 15 December 2000, Ukraine shut down definitively the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
The Commission welcomed this decision as a major contribution to the improvement of nuclear safety in Europe.
The European Union has provided considerable support to Ukraine over the last few years in addressing and overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl accident, which had such devastating effects on the population and the environment.
Over EUR 340 million have been granted in assistance today, not taking into account technical assistance provided for other nuclear installations in the Ukraine.
The strategy followed by the EU was in line with the G7 multilateral programme of action.
This included support for short-term measures for nuclear safety improvements as well as longer-term measures to replace unsafe reactors by alternative energy sources.
In the particular case of the candidate countries of central and eastern Europe, the PHARE Programme has helped and continues to help improve nuclear safety there as well as to develop economically and environmentally sound energy strategies for the replacement of the less safe nuclear reactors.
As requested by the Council, the Commission has given a high priority to nuclear safety in the accession partnerships and in using pre-accession funds to pursue these priorities.
Important landmarks are: the agreement to close non-upgradeable units in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria; the support that the programme has given to the nuclear regulators; the short-term urgent safety improvements made to some reactors; the design and operational improvements in upgradeable reactors and also considerable assistance to tackle the problems related to radioactive waste and spent fuel.
The case of the Russian Federation is particularly important.
We are at present involved in active negotiations on a specified multilateral agreement, the MNEPR, which should allow us to set up and implement a large international effort.
To conclude, the Commission has undertaken an active policy in assisting our partner states in their efforts to increase nuclear safety.
We are right to say in our resolution that there is widespread concern.
We have nine new nuclear power stations there with 27 reactors.
However, the decision to make the Euratom loan available to complete those reactors marks a very important step towards improving EU/Ukraine relations because the loan agreement marks the willingness of Ukraine to operate its nuclear plant to safety standards equivalent to those in the European Union.
Paragraph 12 of the joint resolution calls for closer cooperation and dialogue between Ukraine and the European Parliament on energy-related matters.
It is essential that this Parliament, its committees and its delegation to the Ukraine are linked into the work of the subcommittee of the political cooperation agreement which handles energy and environment issues.
Mr President, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are pleased that we have, at any event, succeeded in agreeing upon a resolution, even though we should, of course, have liked it to be stronger on certain points.
Fifteen years after Chernobyl, the safety of nuclear power and its effects upon health are the subject of this resolution.
The UN' s Department for Humanitarian Affairs estimates that 9 million people have been affected directly or indirectly by the disaster in Chernobyl.
In Belarus, 18 per cent of the total population live in a heavily polluted environment.
The repercussions could become apparent in seven million people over the next 50 to 70 years.
In Belarus alone, there is a shortfall in the funds needed to treat radiation victims of EUR 800 million a year.
Because there is no money, people over the age of 45 are no longer being treated.
We call on the European Union to issue strict, uniform nuclear safety standards.
I need only think of Bohunice, Kozlodoui or Ignalina.
In Austria no one - not one party - is in favour of using nuclear energy.
When someone builds a nuclear power station which would not be able to obtain a license anywhere in the European Union, suddenly it is a question of national sovereignty and everyone is insulted if you question safety standards or ask for information.
I know full well that we cannot compare French technology, for example, with British technology and that the French industry may wish to guard its secrets.
We must be able to say if an old or a new nuclear power station built in a candidate country - and I am thinking quite specifically of Temelin here - is safe.
I have to say that, if a nuclear power station would be unable to obtain an operating licence anywhere in the European Union, then I am against it, I do not want any nuclear power stations in any candidate country which do not meet our standards, irrespective of which country has issued them.
In the latter country, nearly two and a half million people were exposed to radioactivity.
The European Union has addressed a number of these problems in good time and has given a great deal of aid to Ukraine - something which the Commissioner already referred to - although the effectiveness of that aid is sometimes called into question.
The government in Minsk may spend a huge proportion of the government budget on the effects, but it refuses to deal with the problem openly.
The international community is involved, albeit on a small scale.
NGOs carry out their work under difficult conditions.
At the same time, it is difficult to accept that not more of an effort is being made, precisely in the interest of the people affected, who are not at all involved in government politics.
Mr President, Commissioner, as you have explained, the issue of Chernobyl is by no means done and dusted.
The European Commission gave in to blackmail by the Ukrainian authorities by approving the construction of two new nuclear power plants in exchange for closing down Chernobyl.
It is essential, therefore, that the second part of the TACIS programme be implemented in Belarus to provide medical and health support, in Belarus and within our own Member States, to the civilian population still living in the contaminated areas and particularly to children.
It is also the responsibility of the WHO, a direct accomplice in this tragedy through an incestuous agreement concluded in 1957 with the International Atomic Energy Agency, which takes, of course, a pro-nuclear stance, and which has since become its legal censor in nuclear matters.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is fifteen years since the epic disaster at Chernobyl but the consequences are still being measured today.
I say this, Commissioner, because similar reactors are still operating in Europe.
Mr President, we will probably never know the real ecological, biological, psychological and economic magnitude of the Chernobyl disaster.
In over 40 years of operation the nuclear industry has not even solved the problem of radioactive waste and, above all, it poses massive threats to human health and the environment.
There is now also a working party in the Council which compares those standards that exist in the applicant States with those that exist in the EU countries, identifying those shortcomings and differences that exist so that it will be possible to overcome these and upgrade security in the applicant States.
I believe that we have explained fairly well in this communication from the Commission how we view these issues, but we can perfectly well use this day and this opportunity to reflect upon the vulnerability of even the very most modern nuclear technology and nuclear power used.
Thank you for the debate.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Wallström.
on the Council position on a draft Council Regulation laying down measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting [6281/2001 - C5-0084/2001 - 2000/0208(CNS)] III.
Twelve of the national currencies of the Member States are to disappear and be successively replaced by the new common currency.
It is odd that not all Member States have yet realised that the internal market cannot be fully efficient in the long term if it is fragmented in terms of a number of different national currencies.
With the euro, European integration is taking a giant step forward.
Hence, the arrangements for protecting the euro against counterfeiting must take this new dimension into account and also be equipped with a legal framework involving all the EU Member States, institutions and bodies and also relevant international organisations.
The first proposal is an Initiative by the Government of the French Republic and is based on Title VI of the EC Treaty.
The second legislative proposal, which in a way is more interesting, contains the Council' s guidelines on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and is based on Article 123(4) of the EC Treaty.
This is a position which Parliament definitely ought to adopt in order to protect people.
The third legislative proposal is based on Article 308 of the EC Treaty and is aimed at taking care of those Member States which have not adopted the single currency, namely Great Britain, Denmark and Sweden.
I am convinced that people in these countries realise that they too must participate in these decisions.
I want to conclude by stating that the proposals in the Council' s guidelines are aimed at guaranteeing effective protection of the euro, and I therefore welcome the proposal in its entirety.
Thank you, Mr President.
The reason that I am speaking is purely to support and highlight, if possible, essential elements expressed by the rapporteur of this report, our colleague Charlotte Cederschiöld, whom I congratulate for her rigorous and excellent work.
The euro is going to be the ultimate symbol of European identity, and along with the yen and the dollar it will be one of the guiding currencies that will be used not only in Europe but also, as our colleague said, on a global scale.
Therefore, and given that the legislative proposals that we are examining today aim to regulate this matter, it is essential both that we have an effective system of police and customs cooperation and that we establish a global information system that includes identifying counterfeit notes, collecting them and sending them to centres that study the method of counterfeiting, the paper used, the ink, the amount counterfeited, etc.
Finally, I would also like to emphasise the importance of effective criminal protection in order to remove any trace of counterfeiting.
With regard to the status of the European Technical and Scientific Centre, which as established in Article 5 of the proposal for a regulation, will channel the fight against the counterfeiting of coins, I would like to stress the need to protect its independence from the Paris Mint from the start, as set out in Amendments Nos 20 and 26.
The negative aspect of course is that a new currency is open to abuse and to undermining by the expert counterfeiters that we have already heard of.
It is worth noting, on the obligation to make checks at banks and bureaux de change, that she encourages close cooperation between Member States, the European Central Bank, national central banks, Europol and, when established, Eurojust.
Equally, I applaud her recommendations to improve and facilitate cooperation between investigative and prosecuting bodies of the Member States, and that every Member State should recognise the principle of previous convictions.
Mr President, in order to protect the euro against counterfeiting, we are looking this evening at a series of technical measures which, however interesting they may be, will not solve the problem.
The consequences of this confusion will be made worse by the high face value of some notes, of EUR 100, 200 and 500.
We have all spoken here of the euro' s importance for our Union, of its economic importance as a complement to the establishment of a genuine economic area without internal borders, of its importance as a mechanism that has contributed to budgetary discipline and to the transparency of the Member States' public accounts and also of its political value as a symbol of the European integration that we are developing, taking forwards and consolidating on a daily basis.
Therefore, for all of these reasons, the security of our currency is extremely important.
In addition, we know that the currency' s security is also tied up with its stability and its exchange rate, but the approach we are considering today is that of protection against counterfeiting.
Secondly, at the same time, of course, it will enable those people engaged in money laundering - I know this is not a report on money laundering, but it is a connected issue - to also move their ill-gotten gains around fairly easily and fairly simply.
We do not have, or we do not apparently have in place, any mechanism across the European Union to try and take advantage of that opportunity, or to try and deter at the point of introduction of the euro the threat of counterfeiting.
It is all very well having something up and running later, but if I was organised crime, the time which I would be trying to engage in counterfeiting on a large scale would be around the period of introduction of the euro when you are going to have four hundred million people in the European Union and billions of people around the world who have never been familiar with the notes themselves.
The European Parliament has dealt with the preparations and the necessary steps right from the start.
This report deals with the Commission initiative and the French initiative on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting.
I should like, on the Commission' s behalf, to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and to report that the Commission will be happy to include any addenda proposed by the European Parliament.
I should also like to stress that the regulation is the pivotal and central point of a comprehensive procedure to protect the euro against counterfeiting.
I should like to remind you that the Commission has submitted various proposals since its communication in July 1998.
Collaboration and mutual assistance between the various players involved at Member State level and the institutions and bodies at European and international level is clearly regulated, as are collaboration with third countries and the obligations incumbent upon credit institutions.
I should like at this point to highlight once again the importance of Article 6 of the regulation, namely the obligation to withdraw from circulation any banknotes which have been identified as counterfeit or which need to be tested and to pass them to the appropriate agencies.
The Commission intends to take an active part in the subsequent implementation of the regulation.
Various additional instruments have already been adopted or are currently being prepared.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Large quantities of LSD, amphetamines, ecstasy and other synthetic drugs are produced every day in Europe, either for domestic consumption or for export to third countries.
This large-scale and often organised production is a blot on Europe' s copybook and undermines our credibility in the international struggle against organised crime.
The proposal is based upon a highly developed method of analysis applied by certain laboratories.
In my opinion, it would be completely wrong, however, to use such arguments to prevent the system from being introduced right now.
I hope that both Parliament and the Council will support this initiative, and I want to thank young Nils Hänninger at the Ministry of Justice in Sweden who has driven this idea forward.
I can back up what I have just said with a few figures provided by Europol and the Drugs Monitoring Centre in Lisbon.
It is estimated that some 8,000 tonnes of cannabis and derivatives, 350 tonnes of cocaine, 60 tonnes of heroin and at least 50 million ecstasy tablets reach the European market every year.
If I tell you that investigations have proven that some 20% of young people have already used cannabis at least once and that an estimated 5 million young people take synthetic drugs, it should be enough to start alarm bells ringing.
The producers and traffickers who deal in these drugs are part of organised crime.
The first initiative on the transmission of drugs for the purpose of analysis and testing is designed to avoid abuse as the result of larger consignments and is a perfect instrument in the fight against drugs.
Both instruments are essential in the fight against drugs and organised crime.
This means that there will be no loose cannon or parallel work and that work will be carried out in cooperation with Europol.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first point is that drugs only harm people who abuse them and that drugs taken in moderation, such as alcohol and tobacco, can also be seen as a source of enjoyment.
There is an alternative to this proposal in the form of drug checking.
The European Drugs Monitoring Centre in Portugal has given drug checking a very good report and it continues to be active in this area.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against the trade in illegal substances and the drugs trade, in particular, an efficient system would not go amiss which would enable us to analyse the trade in the products within the Union in a coordinated manner and to chart the networks.
This research project is due to be completed in February 2002 and we hope that its results will be taken into account in future work in this area.
The objective of the Swedish initiatives is in line with point 4.1.1.4 of the European Union action plan on drugs 2000-2004 which was endorsed at the Feira European Council of June 2000 and so represents a priority for the European Union in the fight against drugs.
In the coming weeks, we intend to publish two important texts: first, the Commission will present a communication to Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of the action plan, and secondly the Commission will bring forward proposals for a framework decision establishing minimum rules on drug trafficking.
The issue of synthetic drugs, as mentioned by several Members, is of particular importance at the moment, both for the European Union and internationally.
The Commission intends to launch this year a review of the joint action on new synthetic drugs of June 1997, which allows new synthetic drugs to be controlled throughout the European Union and to be made subject to criminal penalties.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I am sure the whole House, even at this late hour, would join with me in wishing Dagmar well, and believing that she will recover with her customary vigour in the very near future.
Dagmar Roth-Behrendt intended to move one of the two amendments tonight.
In my country we are particularly aware of that, but we believe that the OIE code covers trade in live animals and will protect countries which do not have BSE from introduction of the disease.
So, from the point of view of my group, we are not supporting any amendments.
At short notice, I have agreed to try and say a few words on his behalf in relation to this most important topic.
A year ago, I spoke in Parliament in relation to this particular matter and my views were clearly laid out.
It has been very hard to have a reasonable rational debate on the impact of an outbreak of BSE, be it 3, 4 or several hundred cases at a time.
But at the moment the high risk is with the dairy herd, the six and seven year-old cows and that is why, since I spoke last year, we have had the destruct scheme that was announced on 13 December 2000, if I recall correctly, that will be in place until the end of this year.
It is genetic, its infectious, its degenerative, but there are very, very few cases, given, for example, the number of BSE cases in the UK in the cattle herd.
Yes, I agree with an awful lot has been done and we need what is proposed before us here today, but I would rather we use the OIE or WTO standard, so that all countries could agree on the classification, so that what we do in Europe would not be considered a trade barrier by the rest of the world with whom we must trade our meat products and live animals.
Right now, we are at a point at which I suspect that, out of fear, panic or for other reasons - political populism, perhaps - we shall try to make the pig into a vegetarian.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, BSE is the biggest tragedy ever to hit European veterinary, an unparalleled tragedy which will claim an unknown number of victims.
The measures must also be able to count on the commitment in Brussels and in the Member States.
After the increase in the number of BSE cases in France, fresh measures have repeatedly been put in place in recent months, and it was remarkable in this respect that Commissioner Byrne himself stated that food safety as such does not require new measures, but that the measures were particularly necessary to restore consumer confidence.
Statistically, we can say that food has never been so safe, but that does not convince anybody.
Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament, the Council and the Commission have cooperated splendidly to make the prevention and control of encephalopathy in animals more effective.
The Regulation takes account of scientific development.
Our group considers the second amendment to be unclear and for that reason does not support it, especially if the aim is to lower the age limit for BSE tests to animals which are 24 months old.
This is not necessarily a sensible solution for all Member States.
In any event, she has only tabled two amendments, because the Commission accepted the majority of the amendments tabled at first reading.
These two amendments, as has already been said by other Members, concern the additional guarantees that some Member States can stipulate in order for animals to enter, and also with the possibility of conducting tests on animals of less than 30 months.
One of them features in Article 6 and refers to the need to train and educate staff working for the competent authorities, staff that work in laboratories, people who rear animals and those who sell them.
This training programme is therefore essential, in my opinion, and should be implemented as soon as possible, because it would be a method of prevention.
With respect to the banning of feed containing animal proteins, as established in Article 9, my opinion is that this ban should now be total.
There should also be immediate 100% compensation for the animals slaughtered on these farms.
I have seen how some of the farmers in the region where I live, who had 25 or 30 cows, have very little money left on which to live.
If all the animals are slaughtered they are left without their livelihood.
The committee adopted the two amendments, the first of which was originally a joint proposal by Professor Trakatellis and myself.
Its content, in brief, states that Member States in category 1 maintain their right to demand additional guarantees on animals being brought into their territory.
It does not aim to prevent imports of or trade in animals between Member States, but just to stop diseases from spreading to those countries where they have not yet occurred.
However, after the adoption of new emergency measures for the Community-wide removal of specified risk materials and the introduction of rapid tests for BSE, a compromise on the legal framework came within reach.
In its amended proposal, the Commission proposed large-scale screening as a transitional measure for the changeover from the current uniform SRM rules to the classification-based rules of the regulation.
These two elements allowed the Council to come to a political agreement on its common position in December 2000.
During this trialogue, a very solid basis for agreement between the three institutions emerged.
These were hard but very constructive negotiations proving that the three institutions can work together very constructively on key issues related to public health.
The Council agreed to additional demands from Parliament increasing the number of tested animals.
I would finally like to remind Parliament of its resolution of 16 November 2000 on BSE and the ban on animal proteins in animal feed.
The TSE regulation, in its current form, provides the framework and, in many cases, the detailed rules for these measures.
I trust that this House agrees with me on the need for the proper legal basis to be operational without delay and from what some of the speakers have already said, there appears to be a measure of agreement on that issue.
The debates we have had in Parliament on this subject since last November make this only too evident.
Neither of the two proposed amendments falls, in my view, into these categories.
This amendment, which had already been rejected in committee during first reading, proposes the right for BSE-free Member States to take unilateral action at their own discretion against the import of any live animal.
Nor can I accept Amendment No 2 as it makes the establishment of an epidemiological picture of all Member States more difficult.
Over 1.3 million tests were carried out on healthy animals aged over 30 months in the first three months of this year.
It has taken much time and effort, but the text of the common position following considerable input of all three institutions provides a coherent set of rules and procedures for the future.
This particular proposal is compatible with the OIE international standards.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The fact that this proposal has been brought forward by the Commission represents a remarkable achievement in action taken to control rabies.
The Commission measures are based largely on the British scheme and they allow for the easier movement of cats and dogs within the EU and certain third countries on condition that they can be identified by electronic chip or tattoo, that they have been vaccinated and that their immunity has been checked more than six months prior to travel.
The proposal also allows the free movement of insects, fish and some other animals.
The Commission proposed both Article 37 and 152(4)(b) as a double legal base.
However, as the regulation refers only to pet animals and to the adoption of veterinary measures to protect health, the Environment Committee agreed that the regulation should be based only on Article 152(4)(b) which relates to public health and which covers rabies.
The Committee on Legal Affairs agreed with this view as again the proposal concerns only the movement of pet animals and its aim is the protection of public health.
I hope that we can reach agreement on the legal base.
In contrast, the use of electronic chips are more effective both in terms of identification, but they are also a much more humane method because the animal does not need a pain reliever or a tranquilliser.
Amendment No 8 refers to the need to state clearly in this proposal that puppies and kittens cannot moved until they have reached the age for vaccination and other requirements because there is misconception about this.
The use of specified ISO transponders would help achieve this.
The Commission proposal includes ferrets in the category of pets which would not require any specific animal health requirements.
There have been very different views on this, but the view of the Environment Committee is that this would pose an unacceptable risk and ferrets should therefore be removed from Annex I, Part b.
Finally, it is very important that detailed information is available for consumers and for staff at EU borders to ensure they are familiar with the requirements.
My aim in drafting the report has been to retain the positive and essential elements of the Commission's proposal whilst at the same time taking account of the requirements of certain Member States.
In the first place, these rules are intended to offer protection against rabies, a disease which, in popular belief, has fearful and deeply mystical associations.
What we have here is that critical balance between public health requirements and common humanity.
Humanity forces us to consider the suffering of those who have to leave cherished pets behind when they travel throughout the European Union.
We call this the "Whisky and Soda" reform in Britain, not because it was conceived in some drunken evening in SANCO but because those are the names of Commissioner Patten's two dogs which for many years he had to leave behind in France when came back to England and he was the principal sufferer - certainly in terms of publicity - who has brought about perhaps a change of thinking in our part of the world.
I do not personally think that in Amendment No 7 where there is a proposal that we have to have an absolutely universal system of ISO standard microchips, that you can expect all animals fitted with a chip to be of that universal variety in the early stages.
Secondly, I am delighted that we have now effective proposals, which I am sure the Commissioner will accept for the quarantining of animals which come from third countries where rabies is endemic - the Indian subcontinent would be a case in point.
Finally, ferrets.
I have nothing against ferrets, but I would think that even a small risk that rabies may be spread by even such an exotic source as this needs us to give further pause for thought and consideration, rather than simply rushing ahead with a proposal about which at least one Member State still has serious reservations.
This is a disease which has filled people with fear and horror for many years and it is a delight to see the reality of the decline in statistics which shows that the disease is now being eradicated.
When I return from Brussels or wherever, be it a Thursday evening or Friday morning, the greatest welcome I get is from my collection of dogs - at least in terms of the noise they make and the length of time.
Yes, the rest of the family are delighted - a quick "Hi Mum", - a head goes up and you might get a hug and then back to the TV or whatever they were doing - but 20 minutes later the dogs are still running round in high excitement.
So I can really empathise with those who feel passionately about the need to be able to bring animals freely throughout Europe subject to the conditions being laid down today and I welcome the report here before us.
As part of the measures proposed by the Commission, animals will have to be identified by electronic transponder or tattoo, and provide evidence that they have been vaccinated and that their immunity has been checked more than six months prior to travel.
Remember it is 8 years down the line.
Since the introduction of standards which can be specified in legislation, as done in the UK pet statute, all ISO standard readers can read all ISO standard microchips.
They are difficult to read in small species such as the cat, they are difficult to read in breeds where the ears are cropped, they are difficult for regulatory officers to read in aggressive or apprehensive individuals and they are relatively easy to erase and to change fraudulently.
I will therefore be supporting very strongly Amendment Nos 6 and 7, even though the need to retrieve the name and address of the owner off the microchip is in some doubt, but I go for a standardisation of the chip, and only the chip not the tattoo.
I do not mean that citizens cannot today travel with their pets, but the different regulations applicable in the Member States to movements inside the Community, as well as movements from third countries, are definitely difficult to understand and somewhat discouraging.
The centre of gravity of this proposal is of course the rabies risk linked to movements of cats and dogs, the two major domestic carnivore species involved in the transmission of this fatal disease.
I am most satisfied that the report supports the Commission's general approach on this fundamental question of public health.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 12 and 13 relating to the legal base of the proposal.
The report concludes that Article 152(4)(b) of the Treaty is sufficient because the essential aim of the proposal is to protect public health.
This is indeed true at this stage, nevertheless the Commission considers that measures relating strictly to animal disease with no impact on public health could be necessary in the future, and a double legal base with Article 37 is therefore necessary.
I was asked by one Member earlier if we have we enough legal base or enough information to prevent other diseases in animals.
I am aware from other proposals brought before Parliament that there is a general reluctance in Parliament and in the Environment Committee to support Article 37 as a legal base for provisions in conjunction with Article 152, probably because Article 37 is not a co-decision article.
But I would ask Parliament to reconsider its view in relation to this particular amendment and consider the question in the light of the need for animal health considerations being relevant, as one Member mentioned.
Hence the need for Article 37 rather than Article 152.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 7 because it goes far beyond the scope of the proposal which is movement between Member States and from third countries.
This amendment provides an obligation for all Member States in relation to the generalisation of electronic identification of all cats and dogs and the establishment of a database to trace any stray or lost animal.
Amendment No 10 suggests imposing on this category of third countries the criteria provided in the International Zoo Sanitary code for the recognition of a rabies-free country.
This would be a discrimination which is not scientifically sound, and therefore Amendment No 10 is not acceptable.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 14.
The Commission proposal was based on a risk analysis which concluded that this species has no significance in the epidemiology of rabies in Europe.
I understand the special concerns with regard to this species because it is a carnivore and does bite, but the simple deletion from the list in Annex I, Part b is unfair to this species, as the only reason is that it belongs to the carnivore genus.
I would have been more open to the creation of a new category for ferrets with the requirement for vaccination, which is possible, but no post vaccination test can be foreseen.
The amendments submitted by the rapporteur and committee, but rejected, were heading in that direction and would have reached, in my opinion, a solution acceptable to everybody.
The Commission can accept six amendments: Amendment No 4 concerning the commitment for the future on a revision of the regulations applying to commercial trade species; Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 15 which bring clarification to the proposal and Amendment No 11 relating to a communication on this issue to the public by Member States.
It was with great interest that I discovered in Amendment No 6 a real pro-active position in favour of a generalisation, in the short term, of the electronic identification complying with ISO standard of animals moved between Member States or from third countries.
In summary, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12, 13 and 14.
On the other hand, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 4, 8, 9, 11, 15 and 6.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
No veterinary medicinal product can be used in food-producing animals unless maximum residue limits, MRLs, are set up for its active substances.
In many cases, the lack of adequate economic return has been an important factor in the failure of sponsoring companies to commit the necessary resources to generating the data necessary to satisfy EU regulatory requirements for fixing MRLs.
Many pharmaceutical companies have been spending up to 25% of the research budget in defending their products.
In its communications the Commission announces a number of short-term measures, the extrapolation of MRLs, and medium-term actions such as incentives for industry, more flexible rules for the use of products and the revision of the existing legal instruments.
They announced these measures to increase the availability of products.
These actions are to be welcomed and, in particular, the extrapolation of MRLs between species that could help to maintain on the market many products intended for minor species.
The MRL problem gives rise to greatest concern in these minor food-producing species, such as horses, goats, rabbits, fish, bees - minor in terms of their economic importance for the pharmaceutical companies, hence their lack of defence of the various veterinary products required.
But major species have also been affected.
In my own country, Ireland, there is no legal local anaesthetic to use on cattle at this point in time.
Hence, the point I am making - and the Commission also shares this view - is that we need a pan-European system whereby a product authorised properly in one Member State can be used throughout the EU.
I would also encourage Member States to develop this system as quickly as possible, because it will be part of the short-term resolution of the crisis, and I use that word advisedly, that exists at the moment with the availability of veterinary medicines on the ground.
A further complication is that three DGs are involved in all of this: ENTR, SANCO and indeed AGRI.
In December 1999, DG SANCO proposed to allow the veterinary use of substances without MRLs in horses, provided records of treatment are kept and horses do not enter into the food chain before six months after use.
Directive 81/851 and Council Regulation No 2377/90 are however still to be amended to allow such use.
With foie gras it is a much more cruel exercise and much more distasteful than eating horses because, at least in most cases, the horses have a better life than the unfortunate geese.
In relation to the access to medical and veterinary products for horses, we also have to take into account the whole issue of animal welfare problems.
When we look at horses that have been used for recreational purposes that end up going into the human food chain, it is essential that a precautionary approach is taken to ensure that public health and consumer protection take priority.
It is an extremely important issue because although it will not affect people in Ireland and the UK - because we do not eat horses - it will in other countries.
It is important that there is a balance between animal welfare and the need for consumer protection.
It is important to point out that the current veterinary and pharmaceutical legislation provides a framework designed to ensure, amongst other things, the optimal protection of consumer health.
However, it goes without saying that any of these proposals will have to be compatible with the objective of consumer health protection.
Obviously, these legislative changes will take some time.
The Commission has therefore also announced its approval of the principle of extrapolating maximum residue limits established for some species to other species.
Such an exploration would only be possible under certain conditions.
I am hoping that the further work in close cooperation between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission will lead to a balanced solution, offering a framework for genuine benefit to animal health, while maintaining a high level of consumer protection.
The debate is closed.
