Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote - (CS) Mr President, the extent of the financial crisis shows that neither banks nor consumers have been taking responsible decisions.
I am strongly in favour of investing in financial education and I have also approved the report, but I cannot agree with superficial campaigns and general principles.
For the last three years a single person has been running a website called www.bankovnipoplatky.com.
This website makes a vital contribution to the financial education of those Czech citizens who are on the internet.
I firmly believe that the education of consumers must begin in primary school.
The DOLCETA and EURÓPSKY DIÁR websites should receive more promotion.
This highlights the importance of consumer financial education.
In 2005, this House voted in favour of the Rosati report to abolish guide levels, and now we are taking a step backwards and reducing what we voted for.
Now we are reducing the current guide levels by 50%, which is to say, instead of 800 cigarettes, you have voted for 400, instead of 10 litres of spirits, you have voted for 5 litres, instead of 90 litres of wine, you have voted for 45 litres, instead of 110 litres of beer, you have voted for 55 litres.
I believe that the message to Commissioner Kovács and the Council of Ministers is, all the same, clear; there are only five Members who, in the end, are not going to vote in favour of my report.
The Government's response has then been to spend this dwindling income stream on hiring more and more excise officers in a futile attempt to police a system wherein most of our alcohol and tobacco had now become smuggled.
Voting on the report today in the way we did, we have gone backwards - not only backwards before 1992 but to a period previously where there was no free movement, or very limited free movement, of goods. - (SK) I voted in favour of the report because the occurrence of excessive weight and obesity in the European Union has increased rapidly over the last two decades, with almost 22 million children overweight and this figure growing by up to 400 000 a year.
The distribution of free fruit and vegetables to schoolchildren will not only contribute to improving their health and changing their eating habits, but will also produce a positive social impact.
At the same time, I hope that the Commissioner, and in particular our Agriculture Ministers from the EU-27, will be slightly more generous.
We must remember that the health of our children is at stake, and we should not economise on it. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in the same way as the other PPE-DE Group MEPs from the Czech Republic, against the Busk report on fruit and vegetables in schools.
The European Union has no authority in the areas of either education or health.
Of course the key to the success of the scheme will be back in the Member States.
The promotion of healthy eating models and the consumption of healthier, non-fattening products in childhood and in youth are an investment in the health of future generations.
They will also produce savings in the costs of treatment for diabetes and cardiovascular and bone diseases.
The introduction of the scheme should not depend on parents' agreement to cofinance it.
There is no doubt that there can be only one answer to this question.
Economic and Monetary Union has contributed to the growth of economic stability in Member States and has also had a favourable impact on international trade, thus benefiting the EU.
The positive impact of the euro became particularly noticeable most recently, when the global financial crisis made us aware of the benefits of a stable exchange rate. (ET) I would like to offer an explanation of my vote.
I abstained from the vote on the application to strip Massimo D'Alema of his parliamentary immunity because, as a lawyer, I have certain reservations about our Parliament's authority in this matter, and I have no right or desire to interfere in the internal affairs of Italy. (HU) As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I welcome the result of the vote.
For this reason, we would like to achieve a proportionate distribution of 10% of the revenues from the carbon trading scheme among those Member States where the per capita GDP is lower than the European Union average.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (IT) I am voting for this measure.
in writing. - (RO) I voted during the consultation procedure for the report which approves the conclusion of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Kazakhstan, and which also took into account the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the EU.
in writing. - (PT) The document in question does not fundamentally alter the content of the Regulation adopted by this Parliament in November 2006, which established a public-private partnership to develop a European air traffic management system.
The amendments now proposed to the Regulation aim to recognise SESAR (new generation European air traffic management system) as a Community body and allow the application of the Staff Regulations of the European Communities to its staff.
Amendments are also proposed to the quantification of the Community contribution and its transfer to SESAR, with a maximum of EUR 700 million coming in equal parts from the budget of the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development and from the Trans-European Network programme.
For these reasons, we did not support this report.
in writing. - This proposal will have a substantial positive financial impact on the European air traffic control infrastructure modernisation programme.
in writing. - (IT) I would like to declare that I voted for the report by Mrs Niebler on the establishment of a joint undertaking to develop SESAR, the new generation European air traffic management system.
In this case, I believe that new generation harmonised air traffic management is necessary to sustain the future growth of air traffic in European skies in economic and environmental terms.
I therefore believe that we should warmly welcome the establishment of a joint undertaking in this sphere.
I would, however, like to emphasise the need to learn from the past (I refer in this case to the liquidation of the joint undertaking Galileo) and to formulate a clearer definition of the status that this legal person ought to have, so that the benefits of scientific and technological progress are not hindered by problems of a procedural or legal nature.
in writing. - (IT) I voted for the report by Mrs Wallis on the codification of the statutory markings for two- or three-wheel motor vehicles.
I join with my fellow Member in his view that the proposal put forward by the Commission designed to replace the 1988 Lugano Convention can help to make the system for the recognition and enforcement of judgments swifter and more efficient in the areas affected, and in particular as regards the registration and validity of intellectual property rights.
Moreover, there are additions to the basic regulations, granting the European Parliament the right to oppose a draft measure or propose amendments to a draft implementing measure.
in writing. - (IT) I support the excellent report by Mrs Berès on the amendment of the Council regulation on the European system of national and regional accounts in the Community as regards the implementing powers conferred on the Commission.
Following the introduction of the new comitology procedure, namely the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, which extends Parliament's rights of oversight over implementing measures, I believe that we need to move forward with the general alignment process recommended by the Commission so that the new procedure can be applied effectively.
For a total of 5 985 redundancies in 858 companies, Italy is requesting a financial contribution of EUR 38 158 075.
Given the increasing number of companies closing down or relocating their production, the rise in unemployment and the increased exploitation of workers - particularly in Portugal - we need to halt the policy of liberalising world trade (instigated by the EU and the Socialist Government in Portugal) and defend production and employment with rights in the various EU countries.
in writing. - (PT) The mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund at the request of Italy offers an excellent opportunity to consider the reactions that will be needed in the future when the combination of the effects of globalisation and the economic crisis becomes even more acute.
Understanding global changes and channelling efforts to react to these changes is more appropriate than believing in the possibility of avoiding these changes indefinitely, or even believing that this opposition is in itself virtuous.
Adjustment to globalisation is a more appropriate political option than opposition to globalisation.
I therefore support the application for mobilisation of the fund as expressed in my fellow Member's report.
Only 7 out of the 28 members were present.
In plenary - contrary to Rule 7 of our own Rules of Procedure - I have not had the opportunity at all of speaking up for myself.
in writing. - (IT) We in the Radical delegation, together with Marco Pannella, are voting against the Lehne report on the immunity of Mr D'Alema because it reaches illogical conclusions that can only derive from grounds - or reflexes - based on self-defence on the part of the Italian and European political class.
The increasing complexity of these products makes consumers more and more defenceless, and frequently unable, without expert assistance, to determine which financing offer is best suited to their needs.
in writing. - (LT) Financial education is an important matter on the EU's agenda, especially in the midst of the financial crisis.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for fair, unbiased and transparent financial education, as well as for the obligation on service providers in this area to offer proper, correct information.
A cursory reading could lead one to believe that it is about protecting consumers by informing them of their rights and educating them about financial services; in short, about enabling them to have a responsible and informed relationship with their bank.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Iotova report on consumer education on credit and finance.
in writing. - (FI) I voted in favour of Mrs Iotova's report on improving consumer education and awareness regarding credit and finance.
An adequate level of financial know-how would, in many cases, reduce the risk of over-indebtedness and defaults on payments.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the report drafted by Mrs Iotova as it encourages Member States to develop educational programmes for pensioners who could be at risk of financial exclusion, as well as for young people starting their professional careers who are faced with the challenge of determining how to make appropriate use of their new income.
The website already created by the Commission for educating consumers (http://www.dolceta.eu) has proved to be useful.
in writing. - (PT) One of the most significant factors in the financial crisis has been the extreme ease of supply, or the excessive tolerance of debt.
in writing. - (LT) The trust of Europe's consumers is essential for the internal market to work efficiently and thrive.
The common market encompasses almost 500 million consumers and an abundant variety of goods and services.
Since 1997 the Commission has been using the Internal Market Scoreboard to monitor and draw attention to the way Member States are implementing internal market legal acts.
The Consumer Markets Scoreboard determines problem areas, so it can be a universal and flexible means of reporting shortcomings worthy of attention to society, market subjects and institutions.
It was also created with consumers in mind, to enable them to enjoy the same standards in all Member States.
It is important for the Scoreboard to be written in comprehensible language, easily understood by a range of users, as its results are undoubtedly an interesting source of information about consumer outcomes in the single market.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council directive concerning the general arrangements for excise duty and would especially like to emphasis the importance of the adoption of Amendment 48 on guide levels for importing alcohol and tobacco.
in writing. - (SV) The June List has chosen to vote in favour of the report, as we are of the opinion that it will go some way to providing the opportunity to unite requirements for efforts at national level with regard to health policy with a free internal market.
However, we have chosen to vote against certain proposals that have strong federalist overtones.
As the costs incurred as a result of national public health problems, such as alcohol and tobacco-related diseases, are largely funded by the national levying of tax, the proposal concerning freedom from excise duty in connection with distance selling would hamper the prospects of the public sector handling public health problems effectively.
There is also a problem from the point of view of competition, as a distance seller can offer the same product as national players, but considerably cheaper, simply because excise duty is not paid in the same country.
in writing. - I support this directive, which will limit fraud and contraband cases that reduce state revenue.
in writing. - (DE) Our tax systems are very complex and to a certain extent are really only transparent to specialists.
This project seems to have such an objective, which is why I have voted in favour of the Lulling report.
in writing. - (IT) I voted for the report by Mrs Lulling concerning the general arrangements for excise duty.
In fact, although the Commission's proposal contains some improvements and changes, such as Article 37 (the tax markings that Member States may impose must not give rise to a double tax burden), there is a need to extend the provisions governing purchases by private individuals to distance selling, creating a genuine internal market in excisable goods purchased by private individuals for their personal use.
in writing. - (SV) I welcome the fact that the European Parliament has finally changed its opinion and taken a more restrictive line with regard to alcohol.
The result of today's vote on the Lulling report on general arrangements for excise duty will entail a 50% reduction in the guide levels for the import of alcohol.
in writing. - Far too little fruit and vegetables are eaten in the EU in relation to the WHO's recommendations of a minimum 400 grams per day.
In 2007, organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables underwent a fundamental reform towards greater market orientation.
To achieve all the positive effects of introducing a school fruit scheme, there must be increased funding.
A school fruit scheme should consist of a portion of fruit per pupil per day and not only be aimed at school children aged 6-10.
in writing. - I welcome the adoption of the Report on the School Fresh Fruit Scheme.
Although a larger budget than the €90m envisioned by the Commission would be welcome - as the Parliament has pointed out in its Report through its request for an increase in the budget to €500m - the creation of this scheme will give children regular access to free fruit and its attendant health benefits, such as a lower chance of developing obesity, diabetes, and other serious diseases in later life.
in writing. - (DA) The June Movement has voted in favour of the report as a whole, despite the fact that, in principle, we are opposed to agricultural aid.
Finally, we would also like the fruit that is given to the children to be organic.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of better financing for this scheme, as well for defining more clearly the products which can be included in this scheme.
The statistics show that there are approximately 22 million overweight children in the EU, with more than 5 million obese children, mainly due to the excessive consumption of products with high levels of fat, sugar and salt.
I also voted in favour of increasing the budget allocated to this scheme from EUR 90 million to EUR 500 million as the initial sum allocated to this scheme is equivalent to offering one portion of fruit to each child aged between 6 and 10 for a period of 30 weeks.
in writing. - Although I believe parents are ultimately responsible for the health of their children, and that any school fruit scheme must be flexible enough to accommodate local, regional and national conditions, I welcome this report.
There is an obesity epidemic among children and it is estimated that there are 22 million overweight children in the EU, 5.1 million of whom are considered to be severely overweight.
In a way, therefore, it is understandable that many people have today voted in favour of a proposal in the European Parliament to subsidise fruit for school children in the EU.
This is, in fact, something the EU wants too.
According to Article 5 of the EC Treaty, decisions that it would be more appropriate to take at a lower level shall be taken at that level.
I therefore voted against the Parliament's proposal to increase the fruit budget from EUR 90 million to EUR 500 million.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Busk report on the proposal to set up a scheme to distribute fruit in schools because I feel that Community support for the free distribution of these products to children is vital in promoting healthy eating habits in the European Union and, consequently, improving the health levels of Europeans.
We therefore urgently need to develop effective measures for combating this epidemic, not least by promoting healthy eating habits in the early years of life.
This scheme could serve as an example of a policy ensuring true solidarity between countries.
in writing. - I am very pleased that the health of our children is being tackled at European level.
Obesity amongst children is a growing concern in Europe, and even more so in the UK where almost 25% of the population is obese and 10% of children are overweight.
Addressing eating habits in childhood is key to preventing obesity later on in life, and the consumption of fruit and vegetables is proven to reduce the rate of obesity and cardio-vascular diseases.
It is clear, then, that supporting this initiative also makes good economic sense.
This is why I voted in favour of this report and I hope that Member States will make effective use of the funds to fight what is becoming a real problem for our children.
in writing. - (SV) An already bad idea from the Commission has been made even worse by the amendments tabled by the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, particularly when the committee wants to increase the expenditure ceiling from EUR 90 million to EUR 500 million at tax payers' expense.
Eating habits are formed in childhood, and it has been demonstrated that people who learned in childhood to eat a lot of fruit and vegetables will keep to a similar diet in their adult life.
I therefore note with satisfaction the vote in favour of a significant (fourfold) increase in the budget allocated to the scheme.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Busk report and wholeheartedly support this initiative to provide fruit to Europe's schoolchildren.
Fruit and vegetables, and in my country especially apples, are relatively easy to distribute.
As far as cost is concerned, it is not astronomical: the Commission's proposal assesses it at EUR 90 million, and it could perhaps be higher.
This is true, but at the same time we should be aware of the high cost of treatment of diseases associated with overweight and obesity.
However, I support first and foremost the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - I support this scheme which provides funding for free fruit and vegetables for schoolchildren.
This can only produce positive results, helping to reduce obesity among children by moving closer to the 'five a day' recommendation, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - (NL) In my explanation of vote on the 2009 budget of 23 October 2008, I drew your attention to the value of the EU's involvement in providing schoolchildren with fruit.
During the recent budget discussion, the amount was doubled to EUR 182 million, and thanks to the Busk report, this sum will be increased to EUR 500 million in future.
in writing. - Conservative MEPs abstained on the Busk Report on the Commission's proposal to introduce an EU-wide School Fruit Scheme.
While very keen to see healthy eating habits promoted among youngsters in the UK and the EU, we have reservations about the budgetary allocations proposed in this report, which are considerably greater than the EUR 90 million proposed by the Commission.
Depending on the result of the votes, the Parliament will call for budgetary allocations of at least EUR 360 million and even as much as EUR 500 million.
We believe that it makes more sense to start the scheme with a lower level of financing and review subsequently the budgetary needs in the light of experience gained - as argued for in the Commission's Impact Assessment.
in writing. - (SK) The market for fruit and vegetables in the EU is currently regulated by demand.
The introduction of the School Fruit Scheme will support the consumption of fruit and vegetables in the EU and will increase the demand which will not only boost public health, but it will also benefit European fruit and vegetable growers.
The health perspective is therefore the most important reason for a School Fruit Scheme supporting the consumption of fruit.
As eating habits are created in infancy, it is my view that it is not enough to start in schools but rather in pre-school institutions.
However, the EUR 90 million which the Commission is proposing to allocate from the Community budget will provide only one piece of fruit per week, which is not enough either to change eating habits or to make an impact on public health.
I consider a realistic budget for this scheme to be EUR 500 million, as proposed by the EP.
Such a sum would provide one portion of fruit per pupil per day and at the same time would enable the scheme to target not only schoolchildren between the ages of 6 to 10 years but also younger children in pre-school institutions.
in writing. - (PT) The merits of the scheme proposed in this report are clear.
Encouraging (and in some cases simply ensuring) the consumption of seasonal fruit by the youngest in society has virtuous aims, both immediately, by promoting a diet rich in variety, and in the future, in terms of developing healthy eating habits.
in writing. - (FR) On 1 February 2007, when my report on promoting healthy diets and physical activity in the EU was adopted, the European Parliament delivered a number of strong messages, including the fundamental role of education in relation to nutrition and health in order to prevent overweight and obesity, which affects more than 5 million children, and the call for the Commission and the Council to take the necessary measures, within the framework of the review of the CAP (common agricultural policy) in 2008 and 2013, to enhance healthy nutrition incentives within the framework of rural development policies.
The Commission seems to have heard the message with this European scheme to distribute free fruit in schools for children aged six to ten from 2009/2010.
I also agree with the rapporteur that the resources earmarked by the Commission for this scheme are totally inadequate.
in writing. - (SV) In Sweden, we usually tell our children that fruit is nature's own sweets.
Let us instead concentrate our energy and our resources on more pressing tasks.
in writing. - I fully support the Commission's proposals on distributing free fruit and vegetables in schools, as part of the strategy on tackling obesity among children.
However, I do not agree with Parliament's position stipulating that fruit and vegetables should only come from the Community.
This is why this scheme, which makes at least one piece of fruit available to each child between the ages of 3 and 10, is to be welcomed with open arms.
It is estimated that in the European Union, 22 million children are overweight, 5.1 million of whom are obese.
If the Commission endorses Parliament's proposal to increase the budget from EUR 90 million to EUR 500 million, every child can learn good eating habits from a young age.
in writing. - I support the principle of trying to make fruit more accessible to young people in schools.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament agree with the analysis of the situation in the euro area.
We respect the decision taken by the Swedish people in a referendum and would like to emphasise that this is a matter that should be dealt with in the respective Member States.
Parliament acts as co-legislator in the field of the internal market, in particular with regard to financial services; it conducts dialogue on the coordination of economic policies through the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs; it has a dominant role in monetary policy, with the appointment of the members of the ECB's Executive Board.
I would like to end by congratulating my fellow Members on the report, particularly in light of the emphasis placed upon the enlargement of the euro area as a springboard for the EU's new economic future.
Differences in the development rates of different European Union states are becoming increasingly more pronounced.
For these reasons, I support adoption of the report.
in writing. - The Conservative Party has recently published "Fair Play on Women's Pay: A six-point plan to overcome the gender pay gap".
in writing. - (SV) The gender pay gap is a huge problem and something that both individual workers and social partners have a particular responsibility to address.
in writing. - (PT) The gender pay gap is a problem throughout Europe.
The Community legislation on equal pay for men and women, in force since 1975 and revised in 2006, is clearly inefficient.
We also congratulate her on the responsible and serious way in which she has presented her recommendations, which are focused on the central issue, unlike some of the amendments tabled by the socialists which do not help to solve this problem as they consist of details from political folklore or recommendations which are unfeasible given that they fall outside the competence of Member States.
In Portugal, between 2005 and 2006, despite identical circumstances, the gender pay gap increased by 8.9% under the current government.
The unemployment benefit paid to women in 2007 was 21.1% less than that paid to men.
The amounts paid to women, including with regard to extended benefits, are below the poverty threshold and actually fell between 2006 and 2007.
in writing. - The principle of equal pay for equal work helps to remove discrimination against women in the workplace.
More than 30 years after the introduction of equal pay legislation, women in the EU earn 15% less than men and progress has been slow in closing the gender pay gap with men.
We need to improve child care services and child benefits to help reintegrate women with children back into the work place.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of abolishing direct and indirect discrimination, social and economic factors, as well as segregation on the labour market.
It is also being proposed to arrange a European Equal Pay Day to make the general public and employers aware of wage inequalities.
in writing. - I supported this report as we need proper enforcement of existing laws on the principle of equal pay.
However, while the enforcement of existing laws on the principle of equal pay for the same work and for work of equal value is crucial to achieving gender equality, the restoration of choices to all women is also very important.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Bauer report on equal pay for men and women because it is unacceptable that women earn less (the difference in the EU is 15%), even though they possess more skills (58% of graduates and 41% of doctorate holders are women).
in writing. - (PT) Although the report has been adopted with most of the amendments tabled during the debate in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, which made it into a good report, the PPE-DE Group could not refrain from weakening its scope during the vote in plenary, knowing that an absolute majority of 393 votes was needed.
in writing. - (SV) After careful consideration, the June List has chosen to vote in favour of the report.
It is our fundamental view that issues relating to regulation of the labour market should primarily be dealt with by individual Member States and should not be taken up at EU level.
It is therefore essential that the European institutions take real action in this area and I accordingly voted in favour of the Bauer report.
in writing. - The pay gap, which was one of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs but which has not been adequately addressed by some Member States, has a serious impact on the status of women in economic and social life.
I support this report, which will address women earning 15-25% less than their male counterparts in Europe.
in writing. - (DE) In today's vote I voted in favour of the report by my colleague Edit Bauer.
Nonetheless, despite all our efforts in the direction of equality, both at European level and in the Member States, we still have not succeeded in fully eliminating the discrimination against women in terms of pay.
Experience in recent years shows that the causes of the pay gap between men and women are mostly outside the ambit of the legal system and that legal regulations cannot by themselves improve the situation of women in the labour market.
For this reason, I am in favour of a more consistent implementation of the existing regulations to abolish gender-specific pay differences and against additional legal regulations.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of Mrs Bauer's report, given the gender inequalities which, unfortunately, still exist.
Promoting the principle of equal opportunities between women and men is a relatively recent concern for the European Union - featuring in the Maastricht Treaty or Amsterdam Treaty - although various aspects have been highlighted by many declarations or international agreements, such as the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women of 1967.
The average wage difference between women and men is 8.5-15%, and even bigger in the private sector, in the latter's favour.
The fact that in the European Union women earn on average 15% less than men and need to work roughly until February (418 days per year) to be paid the same amount as men sounds an alarm bell.
in writing. - (IT) I voted for the report by Mrs Bauer on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women.
For years this age-old problem has been under debate: it is disconcerting to note that, in some EU countries, differences in pay are primarily attributable to the high level of job-related segregation and the impact of the pay structure.
I applaud the work accomplished by my fellow Member, which is designed to consolidate the legislation in force, but to take into account the fact that it is difficult to influence economic segregation through legislation of this type.
The fact that women are still discriminated against, being paid an average 15% less than their male counterparts for the same work, is totally unacceptable in 2008.
in writing. - (EL) The Communist Party of Greece voted against the report, because it uses equal pay to reduce working women's rights to the lowest common denominator.
The EU and the New Democracy and PASOK parties have used the same legislation to engineer an increase in the retirement age for female civil servants in the name of abolishing discrimination and of gender equality.
in writing. - This report makes recommendations to the European Commission on applying the principle of equal pay for men and women, and that principle is the key to ensuring dignity, fairness and equality in pension entitlements.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to abstain, as we think that it is, in principle, wrong to pre-empt the legislative process that is currently in progress concerning precisely these issues in an own-initiative report.
In addition, producing energy from fossil fuels such as coal can be viable in spite of stringent environmental standards, and this offers good prospects to European and Polish mines.
in writing. - (SV) For as long as fossil fuels are required to meet the EU's energy needs it is important to support initiatives that aim to alleviate the environmental effects, for example using CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) technologies.
in writing. - I supported this report, as it is in line with the amendment I tabled on the financing of large scale CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) demonstration plants, in my report on the review of the EU's Emissions Trading System.
in writing. - This report recognises the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels which will be used to bridge the gap until we can become reliant upon renewable energy sources, which is why I support it.
It is clear that the European Union will only attain the ambitious targets in its climate policy if it succeeds in ensuring broad use of CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) technologies in power stations.
in writing. - (DE) By adopting the Ehler report the European Parliament has decided on a completely outmoded energy strategy.
This money would be put to better, more sustainable use if it were invested in research into the more efficient use of renewable energies.
