rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year the number of refugees worldwide has increased.
Harmonisation of standards should result in a high level of protection throughout the EU and should not be based on the lowest common denominator.
The Commission undertook to present, between 2008 and 2009, concrete proposals to improve protection standards and to introduce more solidarity between the Member States and also to reinforce practical cooperation.
In addition, in keeping with Mrs Roure's report on open and secure reception centres, adopted on 5 February, Parliament identified a number of problems in these centres.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (LT) In recent years, the number of refugees worldwide has reached 16 million.
In 2007, the EU received more than 200 000 asylum applications.
It is important for refugee status to be granted on the basis of a concrete case, rather than a general assessment, based on nationality for example.
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the European Commission's Policy Plan on Asylum does not mention the Frontex agency, which plays a very important role in the area of refugee protection.
It is true that the European Union needs a common asylum policy and needs to develop an attitude of solidarity in relation to admitting refugees.
It is difficult to judge who really needs protection and who is trying to escape poverty in their own country, and, while the latter also deserve help, we cannot admit everyone.
Apart from avoiding duplication of effort, this cooperation will facilitate the coordination of actions by Member States and the use of their expertise on asylum matters. (SV) Madam President, Commissioner Barrot, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Catania for his report.
The report proposes a common European asylum system and a common asylum support office with common standards for granting refugee and asylum status.
All this is a recipe for chaos and gridlock in national asylum systems.
Britain needs even stricter controls, not more lax ones imposed by the European Union. (MT) The rapporteur was right in saying that a common asylum policy must be built upon the solidarity principle.
I think that this office must be organised so that it can play an important role in the event of a crisis and assess asylum applications correctly.
I think that the new European Union Member States, namely Romania and Bulgaria, need to be given support by the European Union through effective solidarity mechanisms in order to guarantee adequate conditions for welcoming asylum seekers.
However, let us not forget that we must be proactive, not reactive, at European level by focusing greater attention on cooperation with third countries in order to avert crises. (RO) Every year European Union Member States host millions of people who are seeking refuge from persecution and conflict in their countries of origin.
However, the rate of recognition of refugee status at a national level in these states varies between 0 and 90%.
Particular attention must be focused on solidarity between Member States with a view to coordinating the large flows of asylum seekers in some countries, both through providing financial assistance and adopting internal resettlement and reallocation mechanisms allowing the refugees to be dispersed uniformly throughout the European Union. (ET) I would like to thank the rapporteur and emphasise the importance of this topic, even though I represent the Member State of Estonia, which is notable for the small number of refugees who arrive here.
We do recognise the need for solidarity, but I think that those who have already had to suffer so much in life should not be punished once again with a harsh climate unless they choose it themselves.
It is true that, in the action plan on asylum, the Commission proposed to study the options that could be offered by distributing asylum seekers around the Member States on a voluntary basis.
rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken in support of this report, as well as Mr Barrot for his support and the work the Commission is undertaking to amend certain directives, particularly the Asylum Procedure Directive, demonstrating a willingness to improve the common asylum system.
We have visited a great many of them - Mrs Roure was the rapporteur for the final report - and we have observed that often the right to asylum has been breached in Member States, often normal reception conditions such as the right to healthcare and legal aid have not been guaranteed, and information on potential asylum seekers has not been provided.
I agree with the points made by some of my fellow Members, particularly on the need to review the Dublin regulation and to guarantee a solidarity mechanism between Member States in order that the burden might be shared, but also that we need a solidarity mechanism regarding asylum seekers because their right to be transferred to another place so that their case can be heard must also be recognised.
Unfortunately, standards are not in the slightest sense harmonised, because the percentage of applicants from certain third countries who are granted refugee status ranges from around 0% to 90% in different Member States.
A unified procedure should be established for granting asylum, as well as unified standards which enable decisions to be made about who should be recognised as a refugee or whether a person is in need of international protection.
