In its conclusion of 16 December 2008 on public health strategies to combat neuro-degenerative diseases associated with ageing, the Council welcomed the work already carried out by associations that defend and support patients and their carers and called on the Member States and Commission to reflect together on support for carers and to consider ways of developing it further.
In addition, the Council also invited the Member States to establish, in cooperation with the stakeholders concerned, a national strategy action plan or any other measures aimed at improving the quality of life of patients and their carers, as well as to improve the distribution of useful information to patients, their families and their carers, in order to make them aware of the care principle and best practices that have been identified.
Moreover, in the 2008 Joint Report on Social Protection and Social Inclusion, transmitted by the Council to the European Council, Member States committed themselves to increasing access to quality services.
The Presidency will also organise the European Conference called 'Social Services - a tool for mobilising the work force and strengthening social cohesion', which will take place in Prague on 22 and 23 April.
Subject: Unemployment in Europe What initiatives is the European Council pursuing at present to combat youth and long-term unemployment in Europe?
In December 2008, the European Council agreed on a European Economic Recovery Plan to provide a coherent framework for action to be taken at the level of the Union, as well as for measures adopted by each Member State, taking account of their individual circumstances.
The present employment guidelines adopted last year, as well as previous versions, have consistently stressed the importance of tackling youth and long-term unemployment in the Member States.
Moreover, the Presidency has decided to organise the Employment Summit so as to maintain a platform for the debate and eventual decisions, and that will be held on 7 May.
We have the European Economic Recovery Plan and we need to implement it.
Regarding the revision of the regulations on the European Social Fund and the European Globalisation Fund, an agreement on the proposal for a revision of the regulation on the European Social Fund, simplifying the recording of the expenditure and increasing payments on account to the Member States, has been reached in the Council.
President-in-Office of the Council. - I am not among the greatest defenders of the CAP.
Also, I believe that most of the EC's standards regarding placement on the market are based not just on what we have agreed here in Europe but on the internationally agreed Codex Alimentarius standards and the UN Economic Commission for Europe standards.
Subject: Climate change What preparations is the Council making in the run up to the G8 summit in July and the climate change conference in Copenhagen later this year in order to move international negotiations forward on climate change?
President-in-Office of the Council. - In December 2008, the Poznań Conference agreed on a work programme for 2009, which clearly identified steps towards the Copenhagen Climate Conference to be held in December 2009.
The Czech Presidency intends to pursue efforts at international level towards a successful agreement in Copenhagen in December.
The relevant text is included in the Environment Council conclusions of 2 March 2009.
President-in-Office of the Council. - I think it is in the conclusions of the Environment Council in early March.
One example of concrete action under our Presidency in the field of road safety is a final negotiation between the Council and the Parliament on a proposal for a regulation concerning type-approval requirements for the general safety of motor vehicles.
The role of the ITS in the area of road safety will also be discussed during the informal meeting of transport ministers to take place in late April in Litoměřice in my country.
President-in-Office of the Council. - First of all, I understand how these issues are very important during the election campaign because everybody cares about this road safety problem.
