Sustainable agriculture and biogas: review of EU legislation (debate) The next item is the report by Csaba Sándor Tabajdi, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on sustainable agriculture and biogas: a need for review of EU legislation.
The increasing use of renewable energies is an integral part of this.
In the field of renewable energy sources, different countries have different natural endowments, and we must exploit these to the maximum.
Biogas holds enormous potential as a renewable energy source and is destined for a great future for a whole number of reasons that are set out in the report tabled for debate today.
Among other things, if we consider that biogas can be produced from animal manure, we could produce 14 times more than we do at present.
The European Commission has shown that such a situation has not yet arisen in Europe, and we hope that it will not arise in future either, since we now have the second generation of energy crops.
For this reason, biogas production further enhances the environmental sustainability of agriculture - there has already been a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emission since 1990 - and it also has obvious economic advantages as a useful alternative to natural gas in a situation where we now see that oil prices have exceeded USD 100 per barrel.
The production of biogas from agricultural feedstocks has more than doubled in the period from 2004 to 2006.
Particularly important is the 20% target for renewable energy.
However, it seems to me that the deadline of 2008 that you are setting is a bit too early when we look at all the other initiatives that are taking place.
Biogas can be produced, for example, from manure and household waste.
If we are to reduce waste, we must - saying this is like swearing in church - reduce our consumption.
The Committee on Industry is aware of the positive contribution of biogas not just from manure - as the rapporteur thinks - but from all organic waste.
In addition, we want uniform support instruments across the EU and this is expressly stated in our 13 points: we want a simplified planning permission procedure for biogas installations.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am able largely to endorse this report.
We are able to harvest the equivalent of approximately 5 000 litres of fuel oil per hectare for biogas.
There is, however, no doubting the achievements in environmental protection and this is the most important thing.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the rapporteur has submitted a good report and he has submitted it for the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which is good.
This means that food prices and energy prices always correspond and this has something to do with the fact that we do have an Electricity Feed Act - in Germany in any case, but also in some other countries - by which better recycling of plant products can be achieved in the energy sector than in the food sector.
It therefore depends on us clearly favouring smaller plants in policy on subsidies and in remuneration policy, in order to prevent migration into industrial production.
Fortunately, we now have the Manhattan Declaration, released by 500 scientists last week, which says there is no convincing evidence that CO2 from modern industry is causing climate change.
So there is much that can and should be done to promote biogas and, at the same time, make agriculture more sustainable.
Let me draw your attention to paragraph 37 of the report, which calls for a simplified planning permission procedure.
Finally, let me say that I fully support Amendment 1 by Mr Mulder, a most sensible and very important amendment, and I suggest that I read it, because it re-emphasises the need to reclassify animal manure so that it is used properly on farms and the Nitrates Directive needs to be looked at in this context. (HU) Thank you very much, Madam President.
In this light I particularly welcome the initiative of my colleague, Mr Tabajdi, on biogas and sustainable agriculture and take this opportunity to congratulate him on his excellent report.
I think it is important to adopt a European Union directive on renewable energy sources in order to coordinate EU regulation and national policy, to coordinate regulation at EU and Member State level.
Biogas produced in integrated agricultural plants is one of the most important sources of bio-energy.
In addition to European Union funding, we need to create favourable conditions in the Member States to facilitate the construction and operation of biogas plants.
Energy sources are different but they do not all have the same potential, or the same impact on the environment.
To do this, the production of biogas from manure, sludge and municipal, organic and animal waste should be encouraged as a priority.
The classic European solution is institutional competition - not central control.
Ms McGuinness said that one of the things we need to tackle - probably not at European but at Member State level - is that biogas plants are always wonderful things as long as they are somewhere else and not next door to you.
We all are aware of the goal of achieving 20% of renewable energy in the total energy consumption at European level by 2020.
Biogas and other biofuels, along with solar and wind energy, can significantly reduce the reliance on conventional energy sources.
Biogas can also be used to help make farms and areas more self-sufficient in energy, and just a small part of this resource has actually been tapped.
I would also like to object strongly to the use of corn, cereals and other primary agricultural food products for energy production.
In my own constituency it is estimated that we import a staggering 96% of our energy.
Biogas is a very important source of renewable energy.
In my report I will try to highlight the potential of biogas.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, my thanks to all those who have contributed to this discussion.
As always happens, it is very difficult to concentrate only on biogas - we then start a discussion on all renewable energies.
I therefore completely agree with those who have underlined the necessity of investing heavily in research and development so that we can pass through the first generation and enter into the second generation.
I think there are lots of possibilities in the renewable energy sector, but we need to push for further investments to be able to make it a viable solution for the future.
I would like to say to Mrs McGuinness that the procedure at present is exceedingly bureaucratic; in Denmark, the country that has been most ambitious in this regard - and not because the Commissioner is Danish - it takes five years from inception of the idea to handing over of the plant, and there are countries where it takes ten years.
Lastly, I would like to address the point raised by Avril Doyle.
To conclude, I would like to express my gratitude - and I apologise to the Commissioner in advance for my poor pronunciation of Danish - to Thorkild Birkmose, Henning Lyngsø Foged and Jørgen Hinge of the Danish Agricultural Advisory Service, who produced this excellent study.
I would also like to thank Nicolas Nevez, who worked alongside the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and my colleagues Dávid Korányi and Tamás Bíró; I also thank the two draftsmen Werner Langen and Jens Holm for the opinion of the two associated committees, and I thank you all for your constructive criticism.
Thank you for your attention.
