Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 21 September 2000.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of the sitting on Thursday, 21 September have been distributed.
Yes indeed, Mrs Thors, we shall amend the Minutes accordingly. (The Minutes were approved) Presidency communication on the situation in the Middle East Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, as you know, Jerusalem, other towns and the Palestinian territories have been thrown into a state of unrest, and there have already been many victims.
The European Union has reacted already.
Madam President, I sent you a letter on behalf of my group requesting an amendment to the agenda on the issue which you have just addressed in a most dignified way.
In my opinion, since Parliament issued a very timely joint invitation to the Speakers of the Knesset and the Palestinian Legislative Council a month ago, specifically in order to indicate its willingness to become involved in promoting the peace process, we cannot, as Members of this Parliament, remain silent today.
I also have last Thursday's events in Belgrade in mind, and would like to suggest that we should include the Middle East peace process in tomorrow's debate on the Biarritz Summit.
Thank you, Mr Sterckx, we take note of your statement.
I also think that we and the Commission should look carefully to see if the timetable for Directive 98/18 on safety arrangements for ferry boat passengers can be reduced, given that some of the provisions in this directive last until 2009.
I also consider that it is wrong for Greece to have a derogation as regards liberalising transport by 2004 because this erodes safety standards in Greece, in my own country, even further.
Madam President, following the tragic events of last week in the Aegean, yesterday's suspension of over 60 Greek passenger ships which do not comply with EU laws is, I am sure, welcomed by the whole House.
As early as December in Nice, however, majority decision-making is to be introduced in the social and labour-market spheres, as referred to in Articles 42 and 137.
If, subsequently - and with Article 42 as a basis - the circle of people covered by Regulation No 1408 is enlarged, and if majority voting is introduced under Article 137 on, for example, the criteria for granting unemployment benefit, this would have major consequences for both social and labour-market policy in Denmark.
Unfortunately, these 79 or 80 victims fell foul of large, profit-seeking shipowners.
However much some people are trying to blame the crew, the fact remains that the vessel was over 35 years old, that it should not, in fact, have been sailing and that it sank extremely quickly, preventing more people from being saved.
This centre accommodates refugees attempting to enter Great Britain, apparently attracted by more favourable reception conditions, and also because of the greater problems in entering at other borders.
I have written to Commissioner Vitorino to this effect, in order to convey our determination to have a joint European policy on this, indeed our demand for this, before further tragedies have a chance to happen.
Mr Trakatellis, this is something the House is going to decide upon in a few moments, when we come to setting the agenda.
The Conference of Presidents turned down my request for this urgency, but this matter continues day after day, week after week.
Thank you, Mr Kirkhope.
Madam President, after listening to my Danish colleague, you can appreciate the fatuous level at which the debate was carried on in Denmark, a debate which led to a 'no' vote.
I shall of course do so, Mr Davies.
Madam President, the racist incidents in Germany since the last part-session sadly mean that I have to raise this issue again.
Thank you, Mrs Schröder.
Relating to Tuesday: The Confederal Group of the European United Left has approached me with a request to include Council and Commission statements on the situation in the Middle East.
Mr Wurtz, we are currently talking about the Tuesday sitting.
I propose postponing my proposal until Thursday afternoon when Mr Solana is present.
The aim of the PPE-DE' s proposal is to raise a major issue, such as item 5, which allows us to discuss the shipping disaster in Greece at length.
I have received a request for a roll call vote on this.
Unfortunately, Mr MacCormick, this is just not possible.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must firstly express my satisfaction at the proposed regulation on the principles for registers of taxes and social contributions in accordance with the criteria of the European system of national and regional accounts (ESA 95).
I must say that, in general, the joint position of the Council largely includes the criteria of the European Parliament' s position.
I therefore repeat that the joint position of the Council must be supported, in my opinion, because this regulation introduces a mechanism for adapting to the European System of Accounts 95 which ensures, effectively, comparability and transparency in the public accounting of the Member States in areas as sensitive and important as those relating to the calculation of the public deficit.
As you know, Commissioner, in its part-session of April this year, Parliament approved, at first reading, an amendment on the transitional right in its application which said that the Member States could request a transitional period from the Commission of no more than two years to adapt their accounting systems to the provisions of this regulation.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank all the speakers for their comments.
The work carried out by Parliament and the Council has been enormously useful.
The Commission fully approves the joint position of the Council, which now includes the various amendments tabled by Parliament at first reading.
However, two points have been raised which to a certain extent are still to be clarified.
The debate is closed.
Public authorities here as in elsewhere also have a key role to play in providing risk capital and financial support in areas where the private sector will fear to tread.
Of Amendments Nos 10 to 20, I only approve Amendments Nos 14, 17 and part of Amendment No 18.
The present communication shows that even if some progress has been made Europe still has some major weaknesses, particularly when compared with its main competitors.
We should ask ourselves whether the deadline of 2003 is too late for Europe.
I welcome the view put forward by Gordon Brown and others that we should think about accelerating the timetable, in both the risk capital action plan and the financial services action plan.
The proposal for a directive on supplementary pension funds is essential for the growth of venture capital in Europe.
The Employment and Social Committee wanted to make a reference to the findings of the recent report on supplementary pensions, particularly on the prudential rules.
Institutional investors such as insurance companies, investment funds and pension funds play an increasingly predominant role in providing risk capital.
It covers all the key points as regards promoting a risk capital culture in Europe.
This is particularly necessary given that efficient risk capital markets play a very important role in creating jobs on the one hand, and on the other, in increasing productivity, in financing rapidly growing companies and in creating new businesses.
The report indicates that 66% of all jobs in the Community are in SMEs and that 80% to 90% of funding secured through venture capital is used to hire staff.
Although there has been rapid growth in venture capital here over the last five years, Europe is still way behind the United States in this area, especially in the high-growth areas of information and biotechnology, and also in the area of health care, including preventive health care, a totally new field that is constantly growing.
This means that pension funds are playing an ever-greater role in providing risk capital.
To sum up, I would like to emphasise once again that the Commission communication, combined with the report, can potentially provide a strong impetus for combining forces in the risk capital sector.
Mr President, as we all know, the European Parliament has, in successive reports and motions for many years now, expressed its interest in and sensitivity towards small and medium-sized enterprises and their problems.
The Commission' s action programmes have done little along these lines; and yet, in the Commission' s announcement and Parliament' s report, here we are promoting options which are mainly of interest to big lenders and, more to the point, we are doing so on in the name of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The development of the risk capital sector in Europe will mainly encourage small and medium-sized businesses to attract capital.
Another concern, expressed - rightly so, in my opinion - in Paragraph 22 of the motion for a resolution, relates to the possible patenting of natural materials, such as genes and plants.
Our tax and administration systems create special problems.
These systems are far too complicated and are often incomprehensible, so that companies of this kind face frustrating obstacles.
The proposed implementation of the action plan is the right way to go and is part of the structural reforms still needed in Europe despite all the progress made in implementing structural reforms in the markets for products, capital and services.
Furthermore, the Commission communication also indicates, and this was also quite rightly taken on board in the report, that we have still not made sufficient progress in building an integrated pan-European risk capital market, and that this is a weak area for the EU.
Risk capital investment in Europe has more than doubled over the last four years, but only EUR 7 billion was invested in Europe, compared with EUR 12 billion in the USA.
Lastly, I would like to stress that this is an area where women entrepreneurs should benefit from special support, and I wish to emphasise that we, the European Parliament, should be calling on the Commission to monitor progress in this field by means of benchmarking and a scoreboard process.
Thirdly, why should public risk capital only be applied in areas which the private sector is reluctant to finance?
We wish to promote a dynamic spirit of entrepreneurship in Europe, but there are still countless difficulties blocking the path of people wanting to become entrepreneurs and to carry out profitable projects.
Venture capital companies have a major role to play in this field and the European Union must make more rapid progress if it wishes to catch up, in particular with the United States, which is currently far ahead of us.
We feel that the Commission' s proposal is a step in the right direction, although I also think that we must move ahead more quickly, as stated in the amendment requesting the Commission to submit an action plan for 2000 in the field of risk capital and to adopt an integrated approach that combines all the Community instruments in a coherent way.
As the honourable Members know - some speakers have mentioned it - the European Council at Lisbon paid particular attention to promoting our efforts to implement risk capital in such a way that the action plan will be finished in 2003.
The communication will include a mechanism for comparative monitoring and assessment to provide precise knowledge of what is happening in each of the Member States, and to allow us to draw relevant conclusions and to introduce, into those countries which consider it appropriate, the best practices which have been adopted in others.
Nevertheless, these two specific issues must not lead us to forget other aspects which you have highlighted, such as the improvement of the economic, regulatory and legislative situation, which is essential if risk capital is to be as dynamic as it is in the United States.
Some of you have mentioned the problem of public funding in the case of risk capital and we certainly have to clarify the compatibility of that public funding with all the legislation on competition.
As for the Commission, we are now going to present the first report on what has been done, which will no doubt serve as an incentive for the Member States to act by comparing their actions with those of others.
Thank you very much, Mr Solbes.
The debate is closed.
Third Asia-Europe Meeting in Seoul, 20-21 October 2000 (ASEM III) The next item is the Commission statement on the third Asia-Europe Meeting in Seoul on 20 and 21 October (ASEM III).
This meeting will mark the maturing of a process which began four years ago in Bangkok.
This process complements our bilateral relations with our ten Asian partners, as well as our relations with ASEAN, and contributes to the process of integration in Asia and in Europe.
The ASEM process is built on three pillars: the political, the economic and the cultural.
The ASEM process has aided the ASEAN + 3 process, bringing North and South-East Asia even closer together.
In the Union we also had to, and still have to, learn how to efficiently manage a process which seeks to promote political dialogue in order to deepen the economic relationship between the two regions and increase personal and cultural contacts.
The process is based on a relationship of equality.
By stressing the original idea that this process of dialogue should be developed as a process between equal partners and kept as informal as possible, without an institutionalised secretariat, we have managed, despite certain difficulties, to convince our Asian partners that we wish to have equal relations with them, going beyond any donor-receiver relationship with them or any post-colonial standpoint.
I would also like to add that, within the broader framework of the ASEM process, we are holding a constructive series of seminars on human rights organised jointly with the Asia-Europe Foundation.
The exploitation of illegal immigrants, women and children, particularly in the virulent sex industry, will not only be a subject for debate, but also initiatives will be taken to combat this scourge of our times, which is linked to poverty and insecurity.
In the field of the economy, 1993 was a significant year, since it was the critical moment when our exports to Asia exceeded our exports to the United States.
The second ASEM meeting, which took place in London in 1998, successfully overcame the crisis.
We supported our Asian partners and we adopted concrete measures, such as the significant commitment on trade and investments which reversed the earlier trend and led to a considerable commercial deficit with our partners.
The creation of a trust fund, the establishment of a European financial network of experts and the adoption of two action plans to assist trade and promote investments are other concrete measures which show that Europe is concerned about Asia, not only in the good times but also in times of crisis.
This is part of our strategy to make progress on the consensus in favour of an immediate start to a new global round.
It is important to fill the cultural vacuum between our two regions.
The final text will reflect the discussions between the leaders, but good work has already been carried out.
Finally, the 2000 framework for cooperation between Europe and Asia, an updated version of the first one, adopted at the last meeting in London, outlines the objectives and procedures which will govern the ASEM process over the next decade.
In contrast to the last version, the importance of human rights and cooperation in safeguarding the environment have been added, to give just two examples.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Asia is one of the regions of the world where the European Union's potential in terms of political influence has not been fulfilled.
And where the European Union has not achieved its full potential it is also possible that it has not assumed its full responsibility either.
That is why the ASEM process is so enormously important.
I think I can say that the Commission largely has Parliament's support in promoting this process.
This is something else that can be achieved through the ASEM process.
There is still insufficient interest in mutual understanding between these two regions of the world, although economic and trade policy, and a shared interest in a security partnership, do exist.
The successes of the last two summits in Bangkok and London cannot disguise the fact that the ASEM process is not sufficiently dynamic.
But we need more than that if we are to make progress in security policy under the OSCE process in Europe and also as regards territorial issues in Asia or human rights and democratic issues in Burma and elsewhere, with a view to stabilising the region.
It is also vital for the increasingly important issues of company delocalisations, employment standards and other social issues to be discussed in a social forum which meets at a level comparable with the Business Forum and which facilitates the dialogue between politicians and the social partners on industrial relations and social standards.
We have organised the first meeting between European and Asian Members of Parliament here in Strasbourg.
So a parliamentary dialogue also means the public at large becoming involved in cooperation in civil society.
The treatment of Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi, since we have just talked about the British human rights activist James Maudsley, is more than enough evidence that we cannot enter into a dialogue with this regime at this stage.
We would rather go into partnership with Taiwan, and it would be nice if the People' s Republic of China and the Republic of China could take a leaf out of the book of North and South Korea in their attempts at conciliation.
Mr President, the forthcoming Europe - Asia Summit in Seoul offers a valuable framework for dialogue and the strengthening of political, economic and cultural cooperation between the two participating regions.
This in itself offers a very favourable basis for the gradual development of cooperation between the two regions.
The Korean peninsula is a source of continuing strategic instability.
There is no political integration, not even the prospect of political integration, between the ASEAN countries, nor should we forget, as I feel some previous speakers seem to have done, that the governments within ASEAN are all very different: we have totalitarian or dictatorial regimes, even hardline dictatorships like China, alongside democratic countries.
It is not, therefore, surprising that there is, in this context, no real integration or genuine political dialogue.
The European Union should perhaps look into the problem and return to good, sound bilateral relations which could be appreciably different according to whether they involved a democracy or a dictatorial or totalitarian regime.
Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the course of the last five years, somewhere between two and four million people have died of starvation under this idyllic regime.
Like Mr Maaten, I feel we cannot carry on ignoring the question of Taiwan for much longer, not just in the process underway between Taiwan and the People' s Republic of China, but also within international cooperation schemes, even though I am not one of those people who think that these are very effective.
If there is to be any parliamentary cooperation at all, then it must be with such countries and not with the officials of the Communist Party of China or other countries in the region.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his input in this debate and for his sound plans.
However, I would like to focus on the political contacts and comment on two countries in that area, namely Burma and Indonesia.
Ten years ago, a military regime pushed the elected President, Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi, out of office, dissolved parliament, drove out, imprisoned and even killed numerous members of parliament, and subsequently applied extreme terror in its treatment of the population and minorities.
The European Union has taken a number of measures with regard to Burma, but to no avail.
Not so long ago, Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi was once again restricted in her freedom, a number of key fellow party members were rounded up and Western human rights representatives found themselves in hot water in Burma.
We continue to hope that the military regime in Burma will eventually recognise that the only way forward is by dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi rather than by confrontation.
Yet we have seen recently in both Northern Ireland and the Middle East how fragile these peace initiatives can be.
Europe can play an important role as honest broker.
I would like to mention the situation between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan.
When the Japanese Members of Parliament come to see us in Strasbourg in November, Mr President, we will ask them to see if the next meeting between Members of the European Parliament and Members of Parliament from the Asian countries can, if at all possible, be organised in Japan.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions to the debate and make some brief comments.
With regard to parliamentary cooperation, I would like to remind you that there have been two meetings: one in the Philippines and the other in Portugal, on cooperation between young parliamentarians, in which European parliamentarians have also taken part.
With regard to Indonesia, which has also been an issue of special interest, there is regular dialogue, within the ASEM, in which we always insist on the need to promote the democratic process and, to this end, President Prodi has already sent a message to the Indonesian President so that progress may be made on this point.
Our political support for Timor is clear and we provide what we consider to be significant humanitarian assistance.
Mr President, I simply wish to say that, when I referred to the promotion of the democratic process in Indonesia, I clearly meant all the problems relating to human rights and, especially, the issue of the Moluccas, which is a subject of particular and constant concern.
During the first trans-European network round, the issue of ports remained unresolved.
It has done that and has also extended the proposal to include not only seaports, but also inland ports and intermodal terminals, including Project No 8 of the 14 major projects in Essen, which is to be modified.
The Council has only accepted certain parts of Parliament's proposals and totally departs from Parliament's criteria for interconnection points.
The Council wants a maximum of 1 million tonnes without a connection to other trans-European networks.
The result is that an additional 200 smaller ports would be included.
However, this also means that the Council has finally accepted that codecision should also apply to the 14 important Essen projects.
I would like to comment on Amendment No 15.
My second point is about the competitive situation not only between ports, but also within a single port.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I wish to thank the rapporteur for some very thorough work with regard to this important issue.
For example, the proposal to raise the volume in tonnes of freight to 1.5 million in respect of seaports and to change the classification of ports will not, in the opinion of our group, serve the development of the trans-European networks.
Smaller, important ports and the Union' s internal passenger traffic must also be taken better account of.
With regard to that element of those ports, if you consider the Council' s viewpoint on ports - and this has been put in more than one way - the quantitative criterion used is, in my opinion, too sweeping and too vague, which results in a situation in which some ports in the German Wadden area and some in the Netherlands, such as the port of Scheveningen, which is a small fishing port, have now been elevated to the status of ports which would be required to play a role in the trans-European network.
This report and these amendments, in fact, deal with a number of very different situations.
Rotterdam wants to remain the world' s largest port and competes with Le Havre, Dunkirk, Zeebrugge, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Bremen and Hamburg for the same cargo volumes.
The transport situations within the different Member States are far from identical.
Very often, seaports are the first and last ports of call for cargo in Europe.
The link with the hinterland can be made in different ways.
Firstly, I must say that I come from a group of islands in the Mediterranean - as the rapporteur well knows - and we have the impression that the large ports are being promoted, mainly the northern ports as opposed to the southern ports.
Having made these points, which are differences of opinion rather than disagreements, it only remains for me to express our support for this report and to congratulate the rapporteur.
The distance from the port of Pasajes, in the Basque Country, to Vlissingen, in Holland, is approximately the same whether one travels by sea, road or rail.
A cargo of cars and caravans can easily be transported on a small ship of two thousand tonnes, instead of the 204 lorries or 7 trains with 102 wagons which would be required to transport the same load.
It has already been pointed out by almost all those who have spoken that, in effect, the situation with regard to transport - particularly sea transport - and seaports differs widely throughout our Union: the situation in northern countries differs from that in southern countries, in terms of dimensions and the volume of freight and passenger traffic.
Parliament wants the criterion to be an annual freight traffic volume of 1.5 million tonnes, but it is ridiculous to ignore the potential of ports with a volume of at least 1 million tonnes, especially if they meet the strategic requirements of the trans-European networks.
We should therefore have faith in market forces and give smaller ports a chance too.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Piecyk for his work.
We all agree that the trans-European network must be a multimodal network.
We also believe that we all agree that it must include the main points of connection, and that we consider that the current provisions of the trans-European networks on ports are not satisfactory and that strengthening the role of ports within the network will also serve to consolidate the trans-European networks.
I also believe that Parliament and the Commission agree that inland terminals are an important part of the network and play a fundamental role in the whole process.
Nevertheless, there are certain points on which it will be difficult to make progress, since, while we can make progress between Parliament and the Commission, we should not forget the fundamental role of the Council in this decision-making process.
Seaports: Amendments Nos 5, 9 and 10.
This point will certainly be the subject of further debate by the Council.
The problem of superstructures excluded from Community funding: Amendments Nos 8 and 10.
The Commission can also support these amendments and it is true that, nevertheless, we believe that this debate may raise some difficulties.
We support the aim of the amendments but, nevertheless, we cannot support their wording.
On the one hand, because we believe it is inappropriate to talk about the funding of these guidelines and, secondly, because we do not believe it is necessary to make this reference.
The debate is closed.
This work resulted in the present proposal.
I should point out that, even in countries in which 15-metre buses are officially allowed, in practice they are refused entry or are sent back at the border.
Adaptations of the maximum length of rigid buses will very probably bring about a demand for a similar change in legislation for rigid trucks designed to transport goods, although there may be not an overwhelming demand for such vehicles.
The reason is that buses - both inner-city buses and coaches - often have to operate in narrow streets in city centres during the rush hours, when many other vehicles, motorbikes, bikes, and pedestrians are on the road.
The first makes provision for a transitional period during which the use within national territory of buses which are currently permitted but do not comply with the new requirements of the directive will be allowed.
As regards the other two amendments proposed by the Socialists, Amendments Nos 5 and 7, calling for derogations of up to two years, I consider the transitional period to be excessive.
Two and a half years ago the European Commission published a report on the use of 15-metre buses and coaches, in which it referred not only to distortions in competition between transport companies in various EU Member States, but also, I am pleased to say, offered prospects of greater safety and improved comfort.
Furthermore, it is totally in the spirit of subsidiarity that Member States are to be granted a long transitional period, up to 2015 to be precise, during which the use within national territory of buses which are currently permitted but do not yet comply with the new requirements of the directive will be allowed.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and to congratulate him, and I ask you to vote for Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 6.
I would say to Mr Hatzidakis that the 24 months for industry is less than was allowed in the original 1996 directive when the transitional period was four years.
The PSE Group does not support Amendment No 3, as the proposed new test does not ensure proper manoeuvrability and does not therefore fully meet acceptable safety requirements.
Despite this, my group also has reservations about the proposal, namely with regard to Article 1(3a).
Mr President, Commissioner, we are debating the subject of buses and the fact that different practices were applied in a number of European countries with permitted lengths ranging from 12 metres to even 15 metres.
If we consider for a moment the subject of longer buses and the environment, then a situation can arise, as depicted by Mrs Sanders-Ten Holte, of cheaper and more efficient transport where small businesses may have greater earnings in this field and make more profit.
Three axles, as Mrs Sanders-Ten Holte indicated, are not always necessary, but what is necessary is to draft a sound directive.
Competition, which is a prime mover in the arena of real development, will begin when transport companies can offer cross-border services.
The present directive is inadequate because it leads to too much diversity with regard to buses in the various Member States, which will make the drafting of safety standards difficult.
The Commission is pleased that the report points out the need to seek a balance between the commercial aspects and those linked to competition and, at the same time, guarantees technical progress on the one hand and safety on the other.
The aim of the text is clear and has already been mentioned here: to establish a uniform regulation for the dimension of rigid buses in transport services.
The current legislation is very varied, very disparate, and there seems to be a clear need for harmonisation.
In order to fully understand what I am going to say with regard to the Commission' s reaction to the various amendments, it should be made clear that the proposal, in our view, aims to authorise a maximum length of 15 metres throughout the European Union, provided that two requirements are complied with: firstly, that buses of between 12 and 15 metres have three axles - an important issue which I will discuss later and which has led to some debate - and, secondly, that buses are manoeuvrable, that is to say, that their manoeuvrability is in accordance with Community legislation.
We can understand that there may be a debate on whether all buses are the same or not, but we believe that excess detail in relation to specific solutions would, at the end of the day, be the worst formula.
That is the reason why Amendments Nos 2 and 4, which seek to reduce that requirement by establishing that the third axle is only obligatory in the case of buses of more than thirteen and a half or even 15 metres, are not acceptable to the Commission.
Well, the same conditions that are currently laid down in Directive 97/27, which also link this test to manufacturing standards.
Amendments Nos 5 and 7 are not acceptable to the Commission either.
Accepting Amendment No 6 would also cause certain problems, since we do not consider that it has sufficient technical justification.
The Commission considers that that exemption is perhaps excessively restrictive and we could accept the idea that the directive would allow them to stay in use until 2015.
The debate is closed.
