The state of play of the Euromed Free Trade Area (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the state of play of the Euromed 2010 Free Trade Area (FTA) by Vital Moreira, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade - B7-0222/2009) Mr President, Commissioner, this question was drafted and proposed before we knew that Mrs Ashton would cease to be Trade Commissioner.
Nevertheless, this objective remains very distant, and I have the following questions: Does the Commission believe that the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean free trade area in 2010 was a realistic prospect from the very beginning?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moreira, I am answering on behalf of Commissioner Ashton.
Some of these negotiations have already ended and others are set to conclude by 2010.
Israel and Turkey have also signed free trade agreements with the Mediterranean partners, while other agreements are still on the table.
The Euromed Trade road map beyond 2010 should help solve this problem.
The deal was sealed in December 2008.
On the other hand, as far as negotiations with Libya are concerned, they were launched in November 2008 in Brussels to conclude a framework agreement centring on an ambitious free trade agreement regarding goods, services and freedom of establishment, as well as regulatory cooperation.
Concluding this agreement with Libya will be the final piece of the puzzle.
At that point, in fact, the Union will have concluded free trade agreements with all of our Mediterranean neighbours, even though Libya is not covered by the European neighbourhood policy.
The conclusion of this trade agreement will provide EU exporters with new export opportunities in Libya and a more favourable regulatory environment, in particular, in the service sectors and in the oil and natural gas markets.
On 9 December, the Euro-Mediterranean trade ministers will meet to debate the revival of our economic and trade cooperation.
Mr President, after 15 years of negotiating the trade aspect of the Barcelona Process, we have very serious doubts about whether the negotiation of a Euromed-type free trade agreement is the right solution to the social, political and economic problems in the region.
In this context, Mr President, Commissioner, we believe that the proposal being made by the Commission - the road map for 2010 and beyond - is too one-sided, with its bilateral free trade agreement aspect, to be along the right lines.
Surely this is not a situation that the Commission can stand over, and it would be interesting to hear its views. (PT) Mr President, when considering the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean free trade area, we should remember to bear two things in mind.
As already mentioned, we can still remember the situation in Palestine and the Western Sahara, and it is one that we should not ignore in this debate. (DE) Mr President, I think I can say my piece in even less than a minute.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress that Commissioner Ashton's absence is not due to the post that she will take up from 1 December, but to other institutional commitments relating to her current post.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 25 November 2009.
