Follow-up of the Paris Declaration of 2005 on Aid Effectiveness (debate) The next item is the report (Α6-0171/2008) by Mr Van Hecke, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the follow-up to the Paris Declaration of 2005 on Aid Effectiveness (2008/2048(ΙΝΙ)).
rapporteur. - (NL) Three years ago, over a hundred donors and partner countries entered into a commitment in Paris to make aid to developing countries more effective, amongst other things to aim for more harmonisation, democratic control, mutual accountability and greater transparency.
In 2006, at the instigation of Commissioner Michel, it even went a little further than the undertakings in Paris and approved an ambitious plan of action and the concept of division of labour and results-based management.
For the first time since 2000, the percentage spent on official aid has fallen, from 0.41% in 2006 to 0.38% in 2007.
I hope that in its turn that Council will send out a message that is just as ambitious as the one contained in Mr Van Hecke's report.
It is a political meeting, at which we will find out whether the Member States have the political will to meet their commitments.
The Commission cannot act alone.
That is why I am calling on you to mobilise all your resources and contacts to ensure that this summit proves a real success.
An alliance between Parliament and the Commission is, therefore, vital.
It is interesting to note - and I believe it is important for you to remember the figures I am going to quote - that to date Tanzania has had to produce some 2 400 reports for the various donors and, listen carefully, more than 8 000 audit reports for the multilateral development banks.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SK) The report on aid effectiveness is important for three reasons.
I congratulate my fellow Member Mr Van Hecke on the report, which underlines the Union's dual responsibility: both external and internal.
I must say that the most important responsibility of the European Commission and of the European Parliament is the internal responsibility to be honest to the citizens of Europe.
The European Union finances development assistance from our taxes, and we know very little about its effectiveness.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few weeks our debates about aid effectiveness have been marked by the dramatic news of the world food crisis.
The many amendments tabled by the PSE give support to the rapporteur's position and strengthen it in some respects.
Finally, because a debate on improving aid effectiveness cannot be dissociated from the question of the amount of the aid, let me again - as was done a moment ago - point to and condemn the unjustifiable reduction in public development aid between 2006 and 2007, when it fell from 0.41% to 0.38% in Europe.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague, Johan Van Hecke, for an excellent report.
Madam President, I would like to thank Commissioner Michel, and also Mr Van Hecke for a good report.
Aid must be aid.
It is, of course, the only way to get Europeans to increase the growth in aid - they must be able to see that it is effective, as Jeffrey Sachs said so clearly recently.
It is therefore important that Amendment 1 is adopted.
It would also be nice if the European Parliament could grasp the EU's agricultural policy.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Madam President, first of all, I too would like to thank Mr Van Hecke and the Commissioner for this report.
However, the reality is that corruption does exist in many developing countries and, while we must continue to promote good governance in these countries, we have a more pressing responsibility to help the many millions of people dying of starvation and disease in the world.
The presentation that Professor Jeffrey Sachs made to the committee recently was a great example of how that money can be targeted.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that there is still much to be done in order to make European development policies more effective.
I would also like to thank Mr Michel for his passion, his commitment and his fortitude.
With the two conferences in Accra and Doha, 2008 can and should be a real turning point and offers an outstanding opportunity for the European Union to show that it can shoulder its responsibilities as leading world donor.
In this context, Parliament should be put in a position to exercise genuine democratic control and I welcome the Commissioner's call to work hard to ensure that EU countries stand by their commitments.
Progress has been made, but all aid needs to be untied completely in order to prevent money returning to donor countries instead of relieving poverty in beneficiary countries.
In 2007, EU countries spent around EUR 8 billion, in other words about 17% of total European aid, in important sectors but not in the development sector.
The European Union can achieve a great deal on that point, especially through the three Cs: coherence, complementarity and coordination.
We can also do more about the proliferation of projects and programmes.
Finally, I should like to ask Commissioner Michel the following question.
Can the Commissioner also say how these extra funds will be used? (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history, in our history - as the Commissioner said - the total amount of public European development aid has fallen.
If we continue along that road, between 2005 and 2010 the European Union will have granted billions of aid less than it had pledged.
The process we initiated in 2006 to improve the effectiveness of our development aid, and which we are continuing with the report by Mr Van Hecke, whom I thank for the work he has done, cannot be used by Member States as a pretext for not respecting their commitment to increase that aid.
We wanted our report also to refer to the role of the diaspora in development cooperation.
At any rate, the Commissioner can count on the socialists to carry on with our common struggle to improve aid effectiveness for the sake of the poorest people of the world. (SV) Mr President, I would like to thank Johan Van Hecke for a good and important report.
Maladministration, corruption and failed projects have unfortunately been common.
Millions of people the world over have been given better lives and many democracies have been established.
Finally I want to address the sensitive question of our agricultural policy, which Mrs Auken mentioned.
We know that both donors and partner countries are responsible for aid being more effective, but our greatest responsibility is to ensure that aid really contributes to helping developing countries meet the major challenges they face.
I decided to speak because some new issues have come up in the last few years.
Let us remember that our objective, and the political priority for the European Union, are to achieve a global agreement on combating global warming.
Negotiations will take place in Poznan in 2008 and Copenhagen in 2009.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate and thank my colleague, Johan Van Hecke, for his remarkable work.
We should change our mindset and see our contribution to developing countries as investment in the broadest sense of the word.
From my experience, projects cannot achieve their goals if resources do not come in time and if they are less than the amount initially planned.
It seems that a particularly important responsibility for the European Union in this regard should be continued harmonisation of assistance for Member States and the EU.
To improve the effectiveness of European aid it is essential to invest in human and financial capacity and to overcome the inconsistencies between policies and the institutional architecture.
A few weeks ago I visited the IMF and the World Bank on behalf of the Committee on Development and at that meeting I asked what the world would be like between 2030 and 2050.
If we do not do it, China and others are going to do it.
Lisbon will give us the instruments with which to play a more effective role in the world.
Firstly, more effective aid indeed requires the donor countries to coordinate their aid better on the basis of a country strategy in which the partner countries in the south take the lead.
I therefore say to the rapporteur that paragraph 28 in the report should go.
We request monitoring mechanisms to ensure that the investment in infrastructure includes health infrastructure and the responsibilization of authorities for implementing measures in this field. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing today is particularly important, because it concerns a special responsibility of the European Union.
We in Europe are in no doubt that our small and medium-sized enterprises represent a highly successful structural model, and we must ensure that per capita GDP can grow on the basis of that model in the least developed countries.
It is important to ensure the European Union's presence in weak countries and especially in 'forgotten' countries.
The aid granted should be linked with the creation of social awareness, democratic institutions and education systems, so that local society can be prepared to take control of lasting development for these regions and countries. (FR) Commissioner, my first question has already been asked by Marianne Mikko: is there a problem of competition or lack of coordination among the various NGOs, and is the Commission playing its part in trying to coordinate the excellent job each of them is doing?
We have been dismantling the system of agricultural subsidies since 1996 and the effects of our common agricultural policy cannot now be regarded as the cause of the developing countries' troubles.
In regard to agriculture, let me simply tell you that we will be moving from EUR 650 million in the ninth EDF to EUR 1 250 000 billion in the tenth EDF.
It is important to remember that.
I gave you a few figures earlier on: Tanzania has to produce 8 000 audit reports!
Our new Member States may feel frustrated, and rightly so, because in most cases their NGOs, even though they are as good as the others, cannot work because they do not comply with the standards invented by Commission's procedures.
We are working on this, but it will take a long time to resolve.
Secondly, it is our partner countries that choose the sector on which they focus, not us.
I do not dispute the legitimacy or validity of their presence there, I am simply saying that it would be in Europe's interest to have a somewhat stronger presence in a continent that is our neighbour and to which it can offer much added value while also drawing added value from it.
rapporteur. - (NL) This high-level constructive debate today has revealed a wide consensus, both in Parliament and between Parliament and the Commission, on the action we have to take to improve the quality of our aid.
The aid needs to be more predictable.
However, in my view the crux of the matter is that we, Parliament and the Commission - and why should we not involve the national parliaments as well? - need to put pressure on the Member States so that, first and foremost, they stick to their promises and, secondly, approve a plan in which they indicate very clearly what can and will be done within what period of time.
Although it does not criticise how often development aid is used merely as a palliative, a (false) counterpart and condition for deregulating markets or as an instrument of interference - with well-known negative aims and effects, such as the EU's 'European Consensus' on development, the Economic Partnership Agreements the EU intends to impose or financial speculation surrounding foodstuffs, which call into question the aims declared for development - the report not surprisingly highlights the inadequate results of 'development aid' and its significant reduction in the EU: 0.38% in 2007 compared to 0.41% in 2006, well below the 0.7% of GDP indicated by the UNO.
The report also sounds a note of caution against the growing use of 'development aid' for purposes that have nothing to do with development (such as military spending), and against the fact that it is 'often disbursed according to donors' own priorities and timetables'. , in writing. - (FR) In 2005, the Paris Declaration established specific commitments to promote enhanced development aid effectiveness, on the basis of dialogue and mutual accountability.
Those measures are all the more necessary at a time when Member States' development aid has fallen somewhat, from 0.41% to 0.38% of the EU's GNP between 2006 and 2007.
At a time when the food crisis is affecting the most fragile developing countries and access to water and education remains restricted, it is understandable that the EU must redouble its efforts to achieve the MDG objective of allocating 0.7% of its GNP to development aid by the year 2015.
