These negotiations have been long and complex.
Since Sabena went into liquidation, the absence of a Belgian carrier on that route has meant that you can only fly to Washington with a US airline.
Firstly, investment in the United States.
We have succeeded in having the US authorities process investments in a fair and expeditious manner.
Lufthansa will be able to add its name, its brand, its colours and sell its know-how to a US airline for US domestic transport.
The Virgin group, which freely sells its books and CDs in New York, is currently trying to sell its brand in order to create Virgin America in San Francisco.
With regard to the provisions of the US reform, which failed in 2006 in the wake of some very strong opposition, and which some of you followed closely, it will not be possible to undermine the rights that we have negotiated.
Secondly, US investment in Europe.
For example, Virgin has invested in Nigeria.
With our agreement, the United States will no longer be able to oppose Community investment in European countries outside the European Union - such as Switzerland - and in 18 African countries.
Fourthly, third-country investment in European airlines.
In line with what I just said, the United States will not challenge European-operated flights to the United States if European countries such as Iceland invest in their capital.
We must not overlook this first stage, because we need to complete a first stage before embarking on a second one, in order to lead us to the ultimate objective of an open aviation area.
We built it in three stages, but in less than 10 years.
Thus, in five years, the number of passengers is likely to increase from 50 million to 75 million.
There is no doubt that this agreement brings about a large transatlantic air-transport market at long last, to the benefit of air carriers and passengers.
The reason this agreement is balanced is that the Commission has succeeded in opening up access to US markets for European air carriers a little for the first time.
In a nutshell, Commissioner, you can count on our support, and we are asking the Council to approve the negotiated agreement.
Opponents of the agreement are right when they say that there is still an imbalance between the rights which US companies can assert in Europe and the rights which we can assert in the USA.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Madam President, for the moment, air traffic between the US and the EU, the world's two largest markets and together accounting for 60% of all global flight movements, is being regulated in bilateral open skies treaties.
With the agreement that was concluded on 2 March last, these bilateral treaties will cease to exist indefinitely.
I should hope, then, that the Council will lend its approval to this agreement as soon as possible, that is to say during the meeting of 22 March next.
Protecting your own market in 2007 is an impertinence and is far removed from the European idea.
Moreover, it offers our European airline companies the all-important legal certainty that they so desperately need.
The agreement will create an open transatlantic flight area, which means there will be no more arduous bilateral negotiations between the United States and individual Union Member States.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, air transport between the EU and the USA accounts for around 60% of the world's air transport.
Looked at from that angle, then, we can do no other than welcome the conclusion of this prospective Open Sky agreement between Europe and the United States, which will replace a very large number of individual agreements and also serve as an example for many other agreements between the European Union and other parts of the world.
I look forward in future agreements to the United States giving something a bit more substantial back and for that country to stop over-protecting its aviation industry. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I can express neither enthusiasm nor disappointment, but I feel it is appropriate to acknowledge the pragmatism with which the Commissioner and the Commission concluded this negotiation phase.
According to the Court of Justice, any transatlantic negotiation should fully honour Member State bilateral agreements, such as Bermuda II, and I think this agreement does not adequately deal with that.
I think the Commission has certainly moved things forward, but it is also important that, when we go back to the negotiating table in three months' time - which, again, I welcome - there must be some firm commitments from the United States to take more action in response to our needs in this field. (ES) Madam President, Mr Vice-President, I am particularly delighted to be able to congratulate you on the Commission's success, supported by the German Presidency and assisted by its efficient services, with something of a Spanish stamp, I think it is fair to say.
Passengers will benefit even more under the new arrangement.
For over 70 years, Shannon airport has been the gateway airport between the United States and Ireland.
It is equally important that the open skies agreement be reviewed every few years in order to monitor the impact of the agreement on Shannon and other similar airports.
I would commend both sides, and the Commission in particular, for rescuing an agreement that a few short months ago seemed doomed to failure. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, taken together, the EU and US aviation markets account for 60% of aviation movements in the world.
The EU-USA air services agreement will therefore be beneficial to consumers on both sides of the Atlantic.
The harmonisation of legal provisions, notably in the area of safety, environmental protection and workers' social rights is especially important in this type of air services agreement.
The fundamental issue is close cooperation between the appropriate EU and US authorities concerned with aviation safety, both at EU and US federal level and also at Member State level.
This has already been made clear in European Parliament resolutions.
The transatlantic air services agreement must be founded on the Convention on Human Rights and on other international acts guaranteeing citizens' rights and freedoms.
The debates and negotiations have been going on for years now.
By allowing them from now on to operate flights to the United States from any European city and no longer just from their country of origin, you are generating more activities for our airlines and thus more jobs to offer to our fellow citizens.
A third source of satisfaction is the opportunity now provided to European airlines to acquire more than 50% of the capital of US airlines.
Like Mr Jarzembowski, I should like to conclude by urging the European transport ministers to give their full support in a few days' time to the Commission, because it is the interests of one of our largest economic sectors that are at stake, and we need to protect them.
Bilateral agreements between the United States and the Member States need to be replaced by broader agreements.
When that is the case, when the single sky is a reality, the European citizens and companies will enjoy many advantages: common rules on both sides of the Atlantic, the possibility of opening up new passenger and goods transport routes, as well as lower costs, which will make our companies and our air transport more competitive.
All of this should benefit consumers in terms of the final price of their tickets.
Of the nearly seven million people who visited Ireland in 2005, over half a million of them came from across the Atlantic, contributing over EUR 500 million to the Irish economy.
With the advent of open skies, we can continue to benefit from the goodwill we have received from hosting events such as the Tour de France, the Special Olympics and the Ryder Cup.
Access for airlines from any European country to any location in the United States, without discrimination on nationality grounds, is one of the very important benefits.
