As the President said, the Iraqi crisis has been the cause of numerous heated debates within our House, within the international community and within the UN.
Secondly, we need to examine the problems the Gulf will face in the immediate future, problems such as a possible humanitarian crisis.
A second important consideration is the need to secure the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq.
Whatever happens in Iraq, we need to highlight the supremely important role of the United Nations in the overall process.
It is therefore time for an honest discussion of today's real problems and challenges, an honest discussion of how we intend to deal with major issues, from weapons of mass destruction to the environment, poverty and inequality; now is the time for honest dialogue with the United States, a dialogue which, we hope, will help us find a way of really cooperating on security, on promoting real peace and on real global governance based on the common values of the European Union, values which we share in the European Union, values which underpin the Community in which we live.
I should like to say here that I have a feeling, perhaps a ray of optimism on this dark and difficult day, that it is the will of the Member States and, I believe, of our citizens, that the crisis in Iraq - which has given rise to so much discussion and will surely continue to do so over coming weeks and months, perhaps even years - should now be used as a springboard by the European Union for drawing important conclusions about its own institutions, about our role, about the challenges we face and about how we can deal with this situation more effectively.
Whatever the outcome of the war that has started in Iraq - and we must all pray that the military phase will be as short and as bloodless as possible - there can be no denying that this has been a very bad passage for the common foreign and security policy; a very bad passage for the European Union as a whole; a very bad passage for the authority of the UN, for NATO and for transatlantic relations.
I hope that at the European Council later today and tomorrow, heads of government will renew their pledge to maintain the momentum of development and of association between these countries and the European Union.
We must also maintain unrelenting concentration on Afghanistan, on which we had a donors' meeting here in Brussels at the beginning of the week: a recognition of how prominent a part we are playing under UN auspices in the reconstruction in that country, which still faces appalling problems.
That communication set out a vision about how our neighbours, not just to the east but to the south, too, can expect to share in our prosperity and stability if they are ready to align themselves on our values and on our legislation.
We really cannot allow this peace process, once again, to be subject to conditional sequencing so that in practice there is no peace but more bloodshed. (Applause) More immediately, the whole European Union must strive to build on what we share in our approach to the conflict now beginning in Iraq.
ECHO, the Commission's Humanitarian Aid Office, has reinforced its presence in the region.
Since January this year, ECHO has carried out three missions to Iraq itself to assess the situation and prepare for possible operations.
Besides the EUR 15 million that had been earmarked for humanitarian operations in Iraq in 2003, the Commission has, of course, delegated authority to approve fast track aid for a further EUR 3 million in less than 72 hours.
If there were a crisis in a neighbouring country, it would be possible to agree another EUR 3 million for that purpose, too.
Nobody in this House, I am sure, under-estimates the courage and commitment of our humanitarian aid teams in the field.
I think all of us have good reason to be proud of them, proud of the work they have already done in that region and proud of the work which, alas, they have to do in all too many parts of the world. (Applause) We must also do all that we can to help Turkey cope with the political pressures generated by recent events, and to help Iraq's other neighbours, too - from Jordan and Syria to Iran.
We should hope that the political and economic reconstruction of Iraq can begin soon, again under international auspices.
A point I made explicitly last week - perhaps the House will excuse me for repeating it - was that if post-war Iraq is managed under a UN mandate like East Timor, Kosovo and Afghanistan, I hope that it will be recognised in those circumstances and that part of the credit for that should go to those who have insisted on it from the outset.
We should also hope that those who believe that the real choice in the Arab world lies between pro-western despotism and anti-western democracy are wrong; hope that the regional repercussions will be benign - or, if they are damaging, that they will be contained; hope that the current crisis will serve to galvanise the Middle East peace process after a desperately bleak period in which things have drifted backwards; hope that those who believe that this war will strike a blow against international terrorism - rather than stoking the flames of it - are right; and hope, finally, that those many institutions and relationships which have been tested in the fire in recent weeks, including the European Union and the common foreign and security policy, will emerge strengthened by a renewed recognition of how badly we need the apparatus of international governance.
I know which side of the argument I come down on. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when issues of war and peace are at stake, they have a profound effect on us - on our minds, our intellects, our hearts and our emotions.
This Europe, this European Union, lives in peace today because, in our European Union, it is the law that holds sway, and not the law of the strong.
That is what we must require of ourselves at the present time. (Applause from the right) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are grave times.
The European Union is divided, the United Nations is in deadlock and we are witnessing the philosophy of the unavoidable war.
Mr Michel Rocard has rightly said that none of our governments questions that Saddam Hussein is a dangerous war criminal, who in the past has sought to acquire weapons of mass destruction by any possible means, that his word and his signature cannot inspire confidence and that the dictator must be subjected to the justice of the International Criminal Court - something which this Parliament voted for in January with the opposition of the PPE-DE.
This is something we must persevere with.
The difference between us is in the rhythm and the means.
And I do not accept that Jimmy Carter is any less American because he argues that this war is unjust.
And what is absolutely obscene is that we are told, as we all know, that the market for the reconstruction of Iraq is already shared out - and at the head of the queue is the company which was presided over by the Vice-President of the United States until two years ago.
Commissioner, my group will vote for humanitarian aid administered by civilians in Iraq.
And if you will allow me: I appreciate that, following 11 September, there is fear in the United States, but a great American, a great American President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, at the moment when he launched the United States into the noble cause of liberating Europe - with the exception of my country unfortunately - said that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
And therefore we cannot live in fear and terror.
And when we call for dialogue with other cultures, I must say to you, Mr Poettering, that dialogue with Islam - not only with the Arab people - must be based on something positive, and the great Arab poet from my country, from Cordoba, Ibn-Hamz de Córdoba, said rightly that the flower of war is infertile, and that is something we must bear very much in mind. (Applause from the left) Dialogue cannot begin on the basis of threats and war.
Allow me to add, in relation to what happened in the Security Council - and there are many countries which have refused to bow to pressure - that, as Robin Cook has also said, we cannot ignore the essential fact, and that is that, if we really believe in an international community based on binding rules and institutions, we cannot simply forget about them when their results do not suit us.
If we believe in the United Nations, we must support it and we must strengthen it.
If we all want peace, if we are against bloodthirsty tyrants, if we are in favour of an active policy of destroying weapons of mass destruction, we must be able, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to unite ourselves once again, and what my group respectfully asks is that you deliver this message, this demand, supported by millions of our fellow European citizens, so that the European Council speaks clearly, and so that we are capable of uniting and also of seriously relaunching the Middle East peace process - which is absolutely essential - and ensuring our future as a strong, consolidated and capable European Union in our own eyes and in the eyes of the world. (Applause from the left) Mr President, this is not a just war.
Beyond that, they also need to establish a criminal tribunal for the crimes of the Iraqi regime and they must give back control of the oil fields to the Iraqi people.
If those countries can bring the same conviction and determination to the solution of the Israeli-Palestine conflict and the same zeal to eliminating their own weapons of mass destruction, as they demand of the Iraqis, then we might make progress.
It could yet be that this crisis will prove a turning point if our heads of state and government finally accept the need for a common foreign policy and a single EU seat at the UN Security Council, because Europe's troubled tribalism means that Washington wins the day.
According to the New York Times Magazine, this advisor to the President, who has lived in Cambridge since 1968, apparently spent much of his meeting at the White House in January explaining to his distinguished host that there are two types of Muslims in Iraq: Shiites and Sunnis.
The European Union must strongly oppose the very grave precedent set by the American Secretary for Defence in failing to rule out the use of tactical nuclear weapons or nerve gas against Iraq.
The European Union must commit itself in a much more proactive way to restarting the Middle East peace process, to find a just and lasting solution to the Palestinian problem.
The existing procedures, with all their limitations, would have been more than sufficient to prevent the outbreak of war, to ensure the continuation of the inspections, and we are convinced that they would have brought about the disarmament of Saddam Hussein and - why not - his trial by an international court too, if only the United States and the United Kingdom had abided by the rules, if only the other US vassal States, especially the current and future Members of the Union, had given the law precedence over gratitude towards the United States, which is understandable but belongs to a bygone age and was owed, in particular, to a much higher calibre administration than that currently in power.
We are not Americans, we are Europeans, and today we must face up to the fact that a mockery has been made not just of international law but of European law too.
The European Union, Commissioner Patten, cannot be reduced to a humanitarian agency, (Applause) and Parliament cannot be reduced to a humanitarian agency advisory board.
We consider that the United Kingdom and Spain's support of an attack to which even their own public are opposed is rash, illegal and incomprehensible. (Applause) We feel that the inconsistent behaviour of the Italian Government, which is to hold the next Presidency of the Union, of which it is a founder Member, has added to the prevailing confusion, but we also feel that France and Germany have also violated Article 19 in failing to seek agreement with the 15 Member States or with the Greek Presidency, which has been attempting to establish a role worthy of that name for the European Union right from the beginning.
If the European Union had had a permanent seat in the United Nations, if it had been compelled by shared institutions and binding rules to adopt a unified position right from the start, we dare to believe even now that war would not have started last night.
Mr President, we are expecting an initiative in this regard.
I feel somewhat uneasy, however, because I actually believe that we have all been to some extent taken for a ride.
The only realistic approach is for the EU to continue the consensus and leave questions of war and peace to the United Nations.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, for ten years you have done nothing to prepare for a situation post - Saddam Hussein, to establish the protection of life and law in Iraq and the Middle East, and now, thanks to you, here we are discussing what to do after the war.
It is not the Europe of those who suffered fighting fascism, the Europe of Altiero Spinelli, the Europe of Ernesto Rossi, the Europe of those who genuinely gave us the right to look the heirs of Lafayette in the eye too, which you are failing to do with your outdated fascist, communist, papist contempt for the world of international liberal and religious reform!
Mr President, the thoughts and prayers of my British Conservative colleagues today are with the men and women of my country's armed forces on whom has fallen the heavy and dangerous responsibility of disarming Saddam Hussein of his weapons of mass destruction.
The international community has long recognised the threat that Saddam poses for the security of our world, but our institutions have sadly failed to implement its decisions and bring about Iraqi disarmament as the UN has demanded in 17 resolutions.
That includes the practical reality of reaching a full European consensus when there clearly is division - there is even division in this debate.
I am very encouraged by what Commissioner Patten had to say today about reconstruction after what I thought was a rather different message last week.
It is also the voice that again and again will ultimately accept the responsibility worldwide for that international dialogue, for dialogue within Islam and, from our world, for cooperation with the Arab world, but as my group chairman Enrique Barón Crespo rightly said: 'The flower of war is a damned poor way to start this dialogue'. (Applause from the left) Starting from that basic thought, Mr President, I want to say here again that our Member States, if we feel that we need a common approach, should adhere to the articles in our Community Treaty.
Then in spite of all the differences we must also actually seek that common ground.
But also try to hear the voice of our peoples in Europe, who this time are ahead of our leaders, who have understood what kind of Europe they want.
The United States, Mr President, may be capable of starting a war unilaterally, but neither the United States, nor any other individual country, is able unilaterally to bring about permanent peace in this world.
For this we need a strong Europe and a strong United Nations.
I hope that our European leaders will hear this voice today. (Applause from the left) Mr President, the unilateral attack by the United States demonstrates once again that the United Nations has not been a valid instrument.
The Kurds in Northern Iraq fear permanent occupation.
There is no question that our group wishes the European Union to have an autonomous position in the world based on the defence of legitimate interests, but also on values such as democracy, respect for human rights and freedom, in other words, everything that the regime of Saddam Hussein has destroyed in his own country and everything we share with the United States.
And therefore my group advocates strengthening the transatlantic link which has united us at other times in our history, which have also been difficult, as the President of the Catalonian Government has said.
As it is, we have to choose between Kofi Annan and George Bush, we have to choose between Prime Minister Simitis and President Prodi, who are the leaders of the Union, and Tony Blair and José Maria Aznar.
In whose name did George Bush deliver the ultimatum to Saddam Hussein?
In effect, Mr President, war broke out on 17 September 2002, when the new strategy of the Bush approach was announced to the world.
The United States has thus discarded its historical role and, this being the case, it could be the start of a serious crisis, a crisis which, as Norman Mailer said, could affect democracy within the United States, and if it affects democracy within the United States it could also affect democracy in Europe too, and our freedom could be under threat as well.
Therefore, President Cox, Mr Papandreou, tell the Council clearly, make it quite clear to the Council today and tomorrow that Europe has lost with George Bush's war.
The opposition organised by some Member States has, to put it mildly, not done anything for the credibility of the United Nations as a body for enforcing the peace.
It was high time we took action against the local, regional and global danger posed by this heartless tyrant with his weapons of mass destruction.
Mr President, despite the errors, the culpability and the geopolitical inconsistency of the US policy, Europe must not lose its capacity for farsightedness or fail to realise the severity of the threat posed to us by Baghdad.
May God prevent a disaster in London, Milan or Brussels such as that caused by Arab fanaticism on September 11 in Manhattan.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every war is a moral defeat for politics, and, in this instance, war is also an expression of Europe's weakness.
We now have to be prompt in providing aid for the people in the aftermath of war and for the purpose of stabilising the region.
Mr President, having won less than a quarter of the electorate's vote, George W.
Bush is the least well-supported president in US history.
Bush wanted this war.
The universal reign of democracy and human rights, however, will not be established through the use of weapons and cultural violation.
President Bush will certainly succeed in bringing down Saddam Hussein's regime by military force.
Mr President, I refuse to be considered to be Saddam Hussein's friend - for he is and will always be a criminal - just because I am in favour of peace.
In this context, the decision of certain governments to allow US troops to use their airbases and air space, as even the renegade Italian Government has done, is in contrast with the general principles of international law enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
With this in mind, Mr President, the European Council meeting this afternoon would do well to recall these objectives and unite around them.
But we can confront this fact in two possible ways: by means of a simplistic, fruitless and internecine debate, criticising ourselves for the insufficiencies and irrelevancies of our presence or, as the President-in-Office of the Council said, by drawing conclusions that will prevent us from repeating the same mistakes in the future.
Furthermore, Mr President, as has been said here this morning, the problem of the Iraqi crisis does not lie in Washington, in London, in Madrid, in Paris or in Berlin: the problem is in Baghdad and is called Saddam Hussein.
Mr President, we must mobilise all our resources.
A future, Mr President, which nobody is going to hand us on a plate, a future which we must fight for and in which we can exert an influence for better or for worse.
And in order to make a success of that future we have two alternatives, Mr President: we either realise our greatest dreams of a united Europe, a Europe of unity in diversity which speaks with a single voice, or we will have to learn to live with our worst frustrations. (Applause from the right) Mr President, this war was a foregone conclusion.
Thus, an intervention is being carried out which, I would point out, is based on at least three United Nations resolutions: 1441, 678 and 686.
Mr President, it has to be noted that there is no legal justification for the decision by the United States to resort to immediate war, as the desired objectives could have been achieved by other means.
President Jacques Chirac and French diplomats have not ceased their unequivocal condemnation of Saddam Hussein's regime.
The position maintained by France is shared by a large section of the international community, and in the Security Council, the sole legal body authorised to legitimise the use of force on an international scale, there has never been a majority sufficient to authorise an early recourse to war.
A conflict such as this, however, jeopardises the efforts made over 50 years to build a world founded upon law and collective security.
On this sad day, I am extremely proud to be French, for my country has been unstinting in its efforts to attempt to avert this futile war. (Applause from the right) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time for illusions is past, and now we must face reality.
Saddam Hussein's criminal regime must be disarmed.
Most of the indications are that it would not have been possible to disarm Saddam Hussein without the use of military means, whether another four, eight or twelve months had been spent attempting it.
Mr President, this morning, then, the war began that must lead to genuine disarmament in Iraq and that is designed to put an end to the reign of terror that has been conducted there by Saddam Hussein over many years.
It is deeply regrettable that the United Nations Security Council has not been able to bring about such disarmament despite 17 resolutions since 1991 and the many teams, with hundreds of inspectors, that have been in Iraq since then.
These wars led to millions of deaths and produced millions of refugees, 50 000 of whom live in the Netherlands.
What those groups are capable of, we saw on 11 September in New York.
That is what this conflict is about and that is why, politically, I want, in common with the Dutch Government, to support those countries which last night began this action to disarm Iraq.
Mr President, in the past few months, the common foreign and security policy has very obviously proved to be devoid of any content.
The first thing we can do is help with the construction of a liberated Iraq, both in economic terms and through practical aid in building the Arab Middle East's first democracy.
The second was the need for our humanitarian presence.
Commissioner Chris Patten spoke about this.
And regardless of one's stand on the war, it is, I think, morally and politically correct to say that the European Union will not turn its back on any humanitarian problems which this conflict may cause.
First of all, a responsibility for the fact that we want any developments in the region, and in Iraq in particular, to be directed centrally, to be directed by the UN, and if we are involved in reconstruction we can insist that the European Union will only make a substantial contribution if the United Nations is involved and directs the process, whatever that process may be.
We are in contact with them and I think that here too, especially as regards the candidate country, Turkey, that it needs our help, especially as it progresses towards accession, and that it is bound to be affected one way or another by the crisis in Iraq.
We have to work with the United States if we want a multilateral approach to problems and I did not hear anyone speak out against multilateral cooperation within the international community.
The momentum is there and I think it is our responsibility to help put flesh and bones on our debate in the Convention on the future of Europe and, of course, later, at the Intergovernmental Conference, so that we can talk of a Europe which will foster democracy, progress and peace both on our own continent and throughout the world.
Mr President, whatever else the Parliament may or may not think about me, I think that it would concede that I have always taken this Chamber and, indeed, the issue of democratic accountability, extremely seriously.
One day - I will leave it very late because it may be a very unpopular thing to say and I may be accused of lèse-majesté - just before I leave the European Commission next November, I will deliver a little speech in this Chamber about how much better debates are when the people who make speeches have the courtesy to stay behind and listen to the answers.
I should like to answer three of the points that were raised in this debate.
But it will be that much more difficult for the European Union to cooperate fully and on a large scale - also in the longer-term reconstruction process - if events unfold without proper UN cover and if the Member States remain divided.' I went on to say 'I am simply making an observation of fact: if it comes to war, it will be very much easier to persuade you - the European Union's budgetary authority - to be generous if there is no dispute about the legitimacy of the military action that has taken place; about the new political order that emerges thereafter; or about who is in charge of the reconstruction process.
There should be a new UN resolution following any conflict, providing not just for humanitarian help, but also for the administration and governance of Iraq.
These are not my words; they were from the speech made by the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, in the House of Commons this week.
I wonder, just in passing, whether it would have done so if we had never raised the point in the first place.
Second, I should like to say a brief word about the United States and our relations with that country.
It is equally the case that to disagree with the world view of Richard Pearle or Robert Kagan is not to be anti-American.
If signing up to whatever Richard Pearle has to say is a necessary price to pay to demonstrate that one is a passionate believer in the transatlantic relationship, then you had better put in a call to Brent Scowcroft or to many of the most distinguished figures in previous Republican administrations.
Let us make that point gently: I am not prepared to be judged on my relationship with America by whether or not I agree with Richard Pearle. (Applause) And since I am in an excessively candid mood, I shall make a third point.
But you cannot create political will through institutional change alone, and institutional change is not a substitute for political will.
I am afraid that is a lesson which I have learned the hard way over the last three and a half years. (Applause) That brings our extraordinary debate to a close.
It is unacceptable that, in disregard for the European Parliament's position - which is one of opposition to a war without the sanction of the United Nations - some European governments should have persisted in their support for the Bush administration, whose real objective was never to disarm Iraq but, rather, to overthrow the Iraqi regime, install a North American protectorate there and control the wealth of Iraq, particularly in the form of oil.
