On 12 October, when Parliament expressed its wish to have this debate, I made myself available on the very same day and I was ready to go to Parliament the same evening.
I have personally discussed this case with the Prime Ministers of Sweden and Latvia and I am fully aware of the importance that is attached to it.
Given that it was possible to find equitable solutions in other situations, of which the posting of workers directive is but one example, the Commission remains convinced that it is possible to reconcile the four freedoms under the European Treaties with the different social models chosen by the Member States.
The role of the Commission is to ensure that both the social and the internal market legislation are respected and fully implemented in all Member States, without discrimination.
As a matter of principle, the Commission respects the different social models chosen by the Member States.
The issues raised must also be seen in their broader economic and political context.
They demonstrate the need to advance our agenda for growth and jobs in order to achieve stronger social and economic cohesion.
It is interesting to recall that in 1986, when Spain and Portugal became members of the European Community, Spanish and Portuguese workers were seen as a threat by many of the existing European Community members.
The solution was not protection within each market but the promotion of economic and social cohesion.
The general issue, therefore, is how we reduce imbalances and actively promote prosperity, so that our Union is really united and has no artificial divisions.
I hope that all those who are for social solidarity, social cohesion and economic cohesion will fight for the ambitious financial perspectives and active social and economic cohesion policy we need in an enlarged Europe.
It is entirely a matter for each Member State to determine how labour relations are organised and whether or not its system includes collective bargaining.
The Commission recognises the important role that collective agreements play in bringing stability and predictability to economic and social relations in the many Member States that utilise these methods.
The fact that the Swedish Labour Court referred the matter to the European Court of Justice demonstrates that the legal situation is complicated.
Whether the Swedish authorities and the trade union were right in how they handled this case will be determined by the Swedish Labour Court in the light of the ruling that will be given by the European Court of Justice.
The Commission will be invited to present its analysis of the situation and all the legal elements, including Article 49 of the Treaty on the freedom to provide services and the application of the posted workers directive.
As to the broader question of how the Commission sees the development of the internal market and the European social model, let me stress that, for the Commission, the development of the internal market and the preservation of the European social model go hand in hand.
This allows the preservation and further development of social rights, in accordance with the collective preferences of each individual Member State.
As guardian of the internal market, I exercise my responsibilities in an even-handed manner.
I find it extraordinary that I should have to justify remarks I made on an incident that raise questions about its compatibility with Article 49 of the Treaty.
It was the Swedish Labour court that asked whether there is incompatibility with Community law, in particular the posting of workers directive, Article 49 on the free movement of services and Article 12 on non-discrimination.
But does the mere fact that an issue is sensitive deprive me of my right to express a view or carry out my duty?
Just because Latvia is a new Member State and one of the smallest, that does not mean its complaints are less important.
That is a matter for political choice in each country and I know that every system will find supporters and critics.
We have a Union of 25 Member States.
The world is not waiting for us to take advantage of the internal market we live in.
But if members of this House expect me to creep around quietly and not upset some Member States and some Members of the European Parliament, then I am afraid that they are going to be disappointed. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, our group takes the view that this House possesses the self-evident right to call Members of the Commission – including its President – before it and to ask for their opinions.
The President of the Commission has indicated that he was very much prepared to appear in Brussels, as, indeed, he is obliged to do when Parliament demands it.
Commissioner McCreevy’s statements in Stockholm were not intended to call into question the Swedish social model, or to attack the Swedish social partners’ right to determine wages.
When Commissioner McCreevy, at the beginning of October, told an audience in Stockholm that the Commission supported a Latvian building firm in its dispute with a Swedish building workers’ trade union, he was doing what the Commission is obliged to do by the Treaties, that being to act as the guardian of the law and of rights – in this instance, the right to the freedom to provide services.
Let me take this opportunity to point out that other countries – for example, the country from which Mr Schulz comes – have already responded by availing themselves of the provisions made by the Posting of Workers Directive for the building sector, or of the option provided for in the accession negotiations, namely of enacting transitional regulations for workers from the states that most recently joined the EU.
It is evident that the Swedish Government is trying to draw attention away from its own failings.
There is no other explanation for the attempt by the Swedish Minister for the Economy to exert pressure on the European institutions by threatening to withdraw his country’s support for the Services Directive.
The Services Directive has nothing whatever to do with the case under consideration.
I would like to say, on behalf of my group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that nobody in our ranks has any desire to use the Services Directive to alter labour law or the laws on collective bargaining, and certainly not to impose restrictions upon them.
The people of Central and Eastern Europe have stood up for freedom, democracy and self-determination, and have done so with great success.
In so doing, they have won for themselves the right to become members of the community that is the European Union.
We defend our social model, and the internal market forms part of it, for it offers us the only opportunity to make ourselves competitive on a global scale.
These are the principles by which our group stands. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a helpful debate, in that it is clear even from the applause where this Commission stands.
Far from it standing in the centre, in the middle ground of European politics, it has become apparent this morning that it – not all its Members, but Commissioner McCreevy and President Barroso – have taken up an unequivocal stance and set a right-wing, neo-liberal course, against which my Group campaigns – today, tomorrow and every other day.
In preparing us for today’s debate, the chairman of the European Socialist Party, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, recast this topic in the form of three simple questions.
The message we get from Commissioner McCreevy is that, in the event of his interpretation of Article 49 becoming accepted, there is no longer any room in Europe for the Swedish model.
Our response to that, Mr McCreevy, is that your interpretation of Article 49 will not prevail in Europe, at any rate not while the Social Democrats in this House have any say in the matter.
Europe’s citizens have their own worries and their own aspirations; these they address not only to us in this House, but also to the Commission.
What I hear from you, though, Mr McCreevy, is that the free market in Europe means that the lowest standards for incomes, the lowest standards for social security and the lowest standards for workers’ rights are the best way of promoting competition and growth and that they must prevail.
The European social model, which involves partnership between capital and labour, is a recipe for success.
European social policy cannot have the driving down of wages as its objective.
That would be a system after Mr McCreevy’s heart, and we will not have it.
It is therefore disappointing that those who have brought Commissioner McCreevy and President Barroso here today seem more interested in stalling debate than furthering it, perhaps for the sake of a few more votes in the upcoming Swedish election.
The company has a collective agreement with its workers, just as Swedish employers have with theirs.
Perhaps we should not be surprised that Liberal economic and social thought is in the ascendant.
One reason is that more and more people are so painfully aware of the alternatives. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner McCreevy, you have made a frontal attack on the Swedish right to strike, which is protected by the Swedish Constitution.
You must realise that our legislative objective is to protect each worker against unfair working conditions, not Swedish workers against Latvian workers.
That policy depended, however, on certain temporary, national and accidental circumstances.
The Nordic model too is based, however, on unique basic conditions that cannot be exported to the EU as a whole with the help of legislation.
Instead, you need to see each player’s potential for development and what each can give to the team and to do so without crushing players’ individual creativity as long as they follow the basic rules of the game.
What really grates is the fact that that brutal agitator, Mr&#160;McCreevy, and all those who share his opinions unfortunately can rely on rules in force in the EU in giving their support to a Latvian business claiming not to know about Sweden’s system of collective agreements and in applying more restrictive social standards.
Instead of legislating on upwards social harmonisation, the market and competition are being allowed to pull the social downwards: in Community jargon, this is what is known as better regulation.
Moreover, the Commission issued in 1999 a communication to Parliament and to the Council that was extremely explicit on this matter.
From now on, let us consider this matter from the perspective of the forthcoming votes on the draft Bolkestein Directive, whatever Mr&#160;Poettering might have to say about it, and let us use this experience more generally to enhance our collective thoughts on the future of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the Vaxholm case is another example of the great risks we run when we in this way allow our pluralistic Europe slowly to be squeezed out in our efforts to standardise.
All I want to observe right now in this Chamber is that the June List asserts in no uncertain terms that the Member States’ own legislation must apply in these areas.
The reason why we are not discussing upcoming events, where we can have influence with regard to decisions that will be taken by the 25&#160;Member States, is because certain Members of this House want to re-run previous battles, previous elections, and to try to insist in future elections.
These arguments and this debate are predicated not on real divergence of opinion with regard to a better form of social model, but merely on maintaining an archaic, protectionist system.
Questions concerning collective bargaining or collective agreements are a matter for the Member States themselves and not for anyone else.
The Commission has reiterated what we have known since 1969: the Commission’s role is to defend the European Treaties, whether it be Article 49, Article 21, Article 95 or Article 99.
We also have a new document from the Commission, agreed by the College, which puts forward the best parts of the social models that are available to us within the European Union and states that this should be our minimum standard, our starting point.
We see Member State governments – the Swedish Government in particular – utilising an opportunity given to it by the Socialist Group in this Parliament to express its opposition to the Services Directive when, for three years, it has been in favour of that directive.
We now have a situation where Members are standing up in this House to say that they are defending workers’ rights in Latvia as well as in Sweden, despite the fact that the only exact information we have is that Latvian workers have lost their jobs because of the actions of some Swedish governments and trade unions.
So, Commissioner McCreevy had the right to express his opinion.
If that opinion was that, in some way, a ‘one size fits all’ approach to the social model is required, then that opinion is wrong.
That is my first observation.
In this social market economy, we give our social partners the responsibility of concluding their own collective agreements.
Only by giving and sharing that responsibility can this be done.
As for the social debate, which everyone refers to as the social model, I am in favour of it, as long as the social values prevail.
This is where I would beg to differ from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I do not want a liberal market economy, but a socially-oriented market economy in which the social values are used as a basis, in which we find the answers to globalisation together, secure jobs, and ensure that the social security systems will be set up in such a way as to allow people to contribute to prosperity and thus employment.
On a final note, although I do not expect any initiatives that will defy the judges’ rights, I do expect some that will have that effect on Parliament and the Council. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, what was it really that Mr&#160;McCreevy said in Stockholm?
He said that the Swedish Government is offending against the internal market and that he intended to take action against the Swedish Government when the case was dealt with by the Court.
If that is not bringing the Swedish collective agreement model into question, then I do not know what, in fact, is.
The answer is no.
Otherwise, there will be a war regarding the debate on the social model. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the work on improving and clarifying the incredibly important Services Directive is now well under way in Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
It is therefore odd and quite tragic that, in country after country, the directive is now being used as a weapon in what is basically a debate characterised by protectionism and nationalism.
Instead of standing up for the proposal and constructively trying to improve it, ministers in, for example, Sweden have shamelessly exploited people’s anxiety about globalisation and jobs by portraying the Services Directive as a great threat.
No one wants to see social dumping, but the Services Directive does not lead to social dumping.
The Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr&#160;Östros, has completely lost the plot when he accuses the Commission of intervening against a Member State on behalf of a ‘foreign company’.
Free trade, competition and mobility of services are good for Europe and good for Sweden.
To oppose the Services Directive for reasons to do with election tactics and to threaten to block it in the Council is an historic act of folly. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, with all due respect to Commissioner McCreevy, I have to say that his claims that Swedish collective bargaining practice was contrary to the European Treaty and the freedom to provide services show that he has been led astray.
Not only has he pre-empted a court ruling, but he has also, and above all, put a question mark against the protection of workers as an element in the European internal market.
In the past, the freedom to provide services has always – not least in the Posting of Workers Directive – been seen as compatible with workers’ protection.
The freedom to provide services must continue, in future, to include protection for workers if ‘social Europe’ is to be something we actually want to establish rather than a mere form of words.
The reason why the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has stated that the Services Directive, which Commissioner McCreevy defends, is compatible neither with the Treaty nor with the Charter of Fundamental Rights is that it calls into question the protection of workers.
As Commissioner for the Internal Market, Mr McCreevy is bound to pursue a policy of worker protection and not just one that defends one party’s interests. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the Vaxholm conflict is a matter for the European Court of Justice.
In that case, it is good that we citizens, the Left and the trade union movement have now obtained proof that all the fine talk about social dialogue and the social dimension is just fancy words.
The Commission has shown which side it is on when it comes to working conditions etc.
We are a country that welcomes workers and service companies from other countries, but we can never accept discrimination and situations in which workers are pitted against workers.
We refuse to accept discrimination in the labour market too.
We on the Left and in the trade union movement have embraced the struggle before, and we are fully prepared to do so again and to take up the fight for solidarity and justice. &#160;&#160; – Mr McCreevy, you did not need to say anything in Sweden.
In fact, I am surprised that your words about social models have caused such a stir.
Despite our wealth, when you left office last year, we still had one of the lowest social spends in the EU.
I am from Latvia, a country that long before its accession to the European Union considered all four basic freedoms of the European Union to be important and fulfilled them.
That is almost nothing, but we have acquired a host of people who have been able to contribute tax income and labour to our country.
Scaring people by saying that the freedom and opportunity to work in Europe will lead to Chinese wages is a downright piece of insolence directed against our new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe.
This is the matter about which you are conducting an outright scare campaign, and one directed not only at the Services Directive but also, ultimately, at our new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe which have made the European Union richer.
All EU Member States are members of the International Labour Organisation, and have ratified treaties that grant far-reaching powers to trade unions.
Sweden is one of only three countries to have allowed citizens of the new Member States to work within its territory almost immediately after the latter joined the European Union, without imposing any transitional measures.
The only demand the country makes is that its rules and customs be observed.
It is quite absurd to accuse Sweden of attempting to seal off its labour market, and it would be regrettable if the whole incident were interpreted as a Swedish attack on workers from the new Member States.
Czech trade union members have also always taken the view that foreigners working in the Czech Republic must receive the same wages and have the same status as Czech citizens, as well as being subject to the attendant obligations.
We should therefore ensure that the Posting of Workers Directive becomes more than just a piece of paper in our Member States.
Moreover, I would ask Mr&#160;Barosso to withdraw his support for the Latvian firm in the Vaxholm case.
Thank you, Mr&#160;President, even though I have nothing to say thank you for. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, what we have heard here this morning is, regrettably, vintage McCreevy.
Commissioner, you have done it again: having given the Commission the ‘two fingers’ when you were an Irish minister, you have now outraged the Swedish population with a similar gesture towards their social partnership model as well as the European Parliament today.
The Celtic Tiger, for which you claim credit in Ireland, has given us 150&#160;000 children living in poverty in Ireland.
Sweden spends EUR&#160;200 per person as a proportion of GDP, compared to EUR&#160;100 in Ireland, yet Sweden is the third most competitive economy in the world, compared to Ireland’s position at 26th.
Setting Latvian workers against Swedish workers will destroy the Union, Commissioner.
Of course, it is a fundamental right and a fundamental freedom, in accordance with our European principles.
We entirely respect the right to strike of all trade unions in Europe.
On the second question: is the internal market compatible with the Scandinavian social model?
We will never attack the Scandinavian or Swedish social model, but we will fight tooth and nail for the Treaties, because the Commission is the guardian of the Treaties.
In the debate, this at times seems to be a contradiction in terms: those who are in favour of the internal market, on the one hand, and those who are in favour of a social Europe, on the other.
The key to the growth that we require in order to strengthen our social ambitions is an internal market that is truly active and operational.
We have to carry out a more ambitious policy, aimed at social redistribution at EU level but, in doing so, we must avoid raising artificial barriers between our countries.
I can assure you that the European Commission will continue to work along these lines in order to see an internal market put in place, of course, but also in order to see economic and social cohesion occur in a Europe in which we want not only more prosperity, but also more fairness. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Mr Karl-Heinz Florenz, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the strategy against an influenza pandemic (O-0089/2005 – B6-0334/2005). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control have issued extremely serious warnings, based on scientific data, of a possible influenza pandemic in the future.
We are therefore debating a topical issue which relates directly to public health and, of course, from our debate today, in the presence of the Commissioner, I expect us to draw conclusions and commit to action.
The Commissioner is here to tell us exactly what provisions have been made to date for these plans against a possible pandemic.
These plans must seek to: - secure the necessary coordination between the Member States, and this will be done by the European Commission; - avoid panic among the general public; - combat any speculation, if larger quantities of vaccines and medicinal products are required; - determine the areas in which movements have to be restricted somewhat, because of course the virus travels with people; - ensure fair and universal distribution of anti-epidemic products; - identify the population groups to be vaccinated as a priority; here, for example, I would say that we should have started vaccinating with the seasonal influenza virus people working with poultry, in order to minimise the possibility of one person carrying both viruses at the same time, which would be exceptionally dangerous, and consequently to reduce the risk of a pandemic.
The key element in efficient preparedness is the timely development and quantitatively adequate production of vaccines and antivirals.
I hope, and the Commissioner has already told us at another meeting, that he has been holding talks so that we can bridge this gap somewhat.
Another question – which you can answer, Commissioner – is how efficiently the early warning and response system of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is operating and if it is connected to other Community warning systems relating to the health of animals, food, feedingstuffs and civil protection.
It is very important for there to be no panic and for there to be a constant exchange of information with neighbouring countries, inspections and random sampling of animals and, finally, we need to regulate everything needed in relation to restricting the mobility of citizens, especially in countries in which this influenza may emerge.
There is still plenty of room for improvement and further preparation, even though I acknowledge that, since we last debated this subject in the relevant committee, progress has been made on the part of the Member States and I need to emphasise that.
Today I am in the welcome position of being able to tell you that we have in our possession all 25 national preparedness plans from all the Member States, which was not the case when we held the debate in committee.
Of course, I must accept that some of these are still in the form of preliminary drafts, but that does not matter; they exist and they are being examined today, in Copenhagen, with the European Disease Prevention and Control Centre and the World Health Organisation.
At the same time, we are in the process of revising our Community preparedness plan, which was adopted in March 2004 and will also take account of the national plans and the preparedness exercise which we shall carry out in a few weeks, when we shall test these plans to see how effective and efficient they are and to examine how they mesh with each other and with the relevant Community plan.
However, it is important that we advise citizens that these drugs are not preventive, that they are not vaccines and that they have to be taken on prescription and that individual citizens cannot treat themselves.
This will help in the way which Mr Trakatellis indicated earlier and it will also help cooperation with industry, by giving financial incentive – that is how the system works – to increase production and meet requirements in the event of a pandemic.
Four companies have already expressed an interest in commencing cooperation with the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and I am confident that others will follow.
That applies to the Commission and to Member States.
Last week we heard from the WHO that world capacity for producing vaccines is only 300 million doses a year.
Lastly, we need that information from all Member States in complete form – the stocks, antivirals, vaccines, masks, the health checks at ports and the quarantine facilities – in order to know that we are genuinely prepared against this threat throughout the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I agree that Commissioner Kyprianou commendably treads the narrow line between effective prevention and pressing the panic button.
Our populations need to know that influenza always has been a global disease, and nowadays, of course, there are additional means by which it can be spread.
The industry has communicated to us that it may take four years to produce an effective stockpile of everything we need to deal with the virus if it mutates in the way that is predicted.
Effective preparedness planning includes the stockpiling of appropriate antivirals, as well as implementation by Member States of the existing WHO vaccination recommendations during seasonal flu, in order to protect the public and at the same time increase the vaccine production capacity of the European vaccine industry.
Additional investment is needed for the development of prototype influenza pandemic vaccines, as a key intermediate step towards establishing a manufacturing process and the characteristics of future pandemic vaccines.
Last week, the EU Health Ministers recognised that no country can solve these problems alone.
Bearing in mind that the Member States have very different financial resources for stockpiling vaccines and antivirals, as well as for the national advance purchase commitment to establish national pandemic vaccine needs, we have to suggest an early mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund as a precautionary instrument, allowing for pre-emptive action to be taken in preparing for an influenza pandemic.
The stakes are high and time might be short. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at present avian flu is an animal disease which is not easily transmitted to humans.
The major potential danger lies in the fact that the killer virus may mutate into a pandemic virus that spreads from person to person.
The EU and its Member States constitute the world’s largest supplier of developmental aid.
Now it is important that we help the poorer countries take action to conquer the epidemic among poultry, and it is also important that people in direct contact with birds are vaccinated against normal human flu, so that the bird virus does not get a chance to form hybrids with the human virus.
Preventive measures, therefore, such as frequent periodic inspections of migratory birds and of poultry farms are of vital importance in this instance and I welcome all the efforts made to date to detect cases immediately in different countries.
That is why, Commissioner, I think that there should be cooperation and solidarity between countries, given that this sort of epidemic has no frontiers. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, first we need to ask ourselves if there is a pandemic.
That is why we have proposed some amendments designed to promote monitoring, using all resources available.
The European Union must have an active role in managing the possible risk of the H5N1 virus spreading among animals.
We have heard that the 25 Member States have their national action plans and programmes.
Every day, the media bring information about new cases and about the countries where new discoveries of dead or infected birds have been made.
I believe, however, that it is much more important to protect the population as a whole against influenza and to prepare a joint plan of action that the European Union can apply in case of pandemics.
Some countries have adopted rigorous veterinary measures, restricted open-air poultry farming and banned trade fairs.
The problem is that such measures have not been adopted by all 25 Member States.
It needs to be emphasised that not all Member States will have sufficient resources to purchase vaccines.
I therefore propose that besides defining high-risk groups, we should also allow those that can afford to do so to purchase vaccine. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, what our fellow citizens require is high quality information and they are waiting for us to take the initiative and to tell them clearly how things stand.
Firstly, it emerged from last week’s informal meeting held by the ‘Health’ Council that some Member States still do not have any real emergency plan.
The European Commission has to show that it is taking a firm stance on the matter, and I would even say that, on behalf of the general public, it has to go beyond some of its prerogatives in order to make sure that the emergency plans are coordinated flawlessly.
As we proposed in our resolution, it therefore seems crucial to use the Solidarity Fund, in particular to ensure that the Member States carry out these tasks in full.
It would seem to us to be a requirement to have a specific strategy for these employees and other people.
In any case, a number of Member States have taken the right sort of action.
You told us a moment ago that all Member States have now presented plans.
In the event of a pandemic outbreak, there is no time for extensive consultation with countries that have done too little, to persuade them to take the necessary measures while there is yet time, while we cannot expect countries that are sufficiently prepared to suddenly make their supplies available.
There is therefore a need for common action, and that, Commissioner, is where you come in.
Commissioner, if you pound the table even harder, then we will in any case be right behind you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is absolutely essential that the EU is fully prepared for an influenza pandemic and that we learn the lessons from the past, for example, from the foot-and-mouth crisis in Europe, so that contingency plans are well-known, communication lines are clear and coordination properly planned.
The current threat of the mutation of avian flu demonstrates the role industry must play.
We must also take urgent practical steps: an immediate ban on imports of wild birds into the EU, and improved bio-security, particularly in the international poultry industry.
In our amendments, we are also proposing that, as a priority, poultry farmers be offered common, seasonal influenza vaccination, in order to reduce the chances of recombination between human and avian influenza viruses at one of the most important potential interfaces, as Mr Trakatellis has said.
I would be very grateful for an answer to that question. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, today’s debate on the strategy against an avian influenza pandemic is a good opportunity to ask questions both about where the responsibility lies for public health, which is one of the European Union’s main priorities, and about security and truth in public life.
There is a perfectly simple answer to the question – and I apologise for my frankness to my fellow Member and to the ingenuous Commission (whose good intentions I have no desire to call into question): if the risk of a pandemic with millions of working hours lost and vast numbers of human victims were a real one, those humans, the Union, the Member States and the Governments would not only have the ethical duty but also every economic justification for distributing vaccine free of charge.
All the Member States must go out and help those countries that have avian influenza at the moment, and I know the Commission is doing that.
I would also like to say quite clearly, as other speakers have done, that importing wild birds into the European Union at the moment is crazy and needs to be stopped, at least for the time being, because there is no point in bringing in disease.
I also think that at the moment not enough information is going out in the Member States to the poultry industry and to those who are actually running our poultry farms, to ensure that, firstly, there is increased biosecurity and, secondly, that they have protection from the disease if it comes into the European Union.
At the moment we are talking very much about the H5 vaccine, but we have to be ready with other forms of vaccine should the disease mutate into another strain.
I am still left with three questions about avian flu.
Last week, you communicated that you would advise Member States to have people who work in the poultry sector vaccinated with the flu vaccine.
In both cases, the Member States adopted their own policies, sometimes with opposite effects.
I would also like to hear from the Commission what priority it gives to support for flu vaccination campaigns in the poultry sector in Turkey and Romania and what support is in place for similar vaccination campaigns in Asia.
My second question concerns the availability of medicines.
The problem is that these animals, which have been intensively bred with the aid of technology, come into contact with regional breeds or wild animals, which carry the virus without becoming ill in clinical terms.
It may well be the case that the pharmaceutical companies are better prepared than the Commission and the governments of the EU Member States.
Warnings should also be issued to those Member States that are completely unprepared for this potential disaster, and that are waiting for the European Commission to solve the problem for them. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the European Parliament should back the measures and decisions taken by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.
The adoption of a resolution on the strategy against an avian influenza pandemic will provide us with an excellent opportunity to take appropriate action in this regard.
I am quite sure that we will be able to take more effective measures to prevent any epidemic spreading if we implement the following suggestions.
I would remind the Commissioner that the Commission needs a special communications strategy, drawn up under his supervision.
Furthermore, I would call on the Commission and the Council to act responsibly when issuing statements on the matter.
These institutions also have a duty to assess the risk of the disease spreading and being transmitted to humans.
I would stress once again that Brussels must act with the utmost responsibility when issuing assessments of the real risk posed.
We also believe that the pharmaceutical industry should cooperate closely with the European Commission, and with the Member States and the World Health Organisation, in a coordinated fashion and involving a communication strategy, without alarming the population, but with significant levels of information and transparency.
A final question, or rather an appeal: the slaughter of birds, provided that the health authorities consider it necessary, should not be turned into a deplorable spectacle, such as those we have seen in the media, and furthermore it should be carried out in accordance with proper guidelines. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, flu pandemics in Europe have been documented for more than a century and we know that the three A virus sub-types we have had originated from birds: the H1 in 1918, the H2 in 1957 and the H3 in 1968.
All of them originated amongst birds and all of them mutated.
For all of these reasons, there is broad consensus amongst health experts and bodies about the possibility that the A virus H5 may adapt to human transmission and create a new pandemic.
Perhaps its powers should be increased if a period of emergency and a pandemic begin.
I would like to insist that it is important to lay down relevant rules that the Member States can follow, and to coordinate and monitor compliance with them, and also to urge the media to report rigorously but without creating unnecessary social alarm.
Finally, I believe that we must enhance R+D resources within the European Union with a view to responding in a medical and scientific fashion as quickly as possible, should the need arise. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to start by thanking and congratulating the Commission on the speed of its reaction to public health issues, a policy which does not come quite within its competence, and I think that the motion for a resolution, which attempts to coordinate the public authorities on this important issue, is also within this framework.
Within the framework, however, of a comprehensive policy at national and Community level and in conjunction with the confirmed lack of a fundamental communication policy to inform citizens at national and Community level, the poultry market has been shaken, with plummeting levels of consumption.
The Commission, in cooperation with all the competent Commissioners, including Mrs Fischer Boel, will need to mobilise, firstly, the political safeguarding of farmers' incomes from market crises.
The Council of Ministers for Agriculture will need, at long last, to take a decision on this matter.
Secondly, fundamental Community financing for the problems of poultry farms and, thirdly, the necessary marking of poultry for consumption, to the effect that they are from inspected farms.
This marking will help to intensify inspections of poultry farms and restore consumer confidence in this sector. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, over the past 300 years, 10 influenza pandemics have occurred among humans.
Scientists have been predicting a lethal cyclical resurgence of influenza for some time, one that will be more deadly because of our low levels of resistance.
The influenza virus is an RNA virus containing eight genes.
Like most RNA viruses, it reproduces sloppily, its genes readily fall apart, and it can absorb different genetic material which recombines in a process called reassortment.
Since it was first recorded in 1997, avian flu strain H5N1 has undergone multiple reassortments – more than 17 mutations – and evolved at high speed to the point where, in January 2003, the ‘z’ virus emerged.
By April 2005, the H5N1 virus had also moved to pigs.
The total number of companies willing and able to produce influenza vaccines has plummeted in recent years from more than two dozen in 1980 to just a handful in 2004.
While it is important for us to be prepared and vigilant and to take precautionary action, with responsible risk assessment and forward planning, a lot will depend on the availability and effectiveness of anti-virals and vaccines and hospital bed capacity, which has been seriously reduced in all EU countries in the last decade. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I agree with everybody who has said that we are facing a veterinary crisis which must be tackled urgently.
It has been shown that during the ‘Spanish flu’ pandemic of 1918, the disease claimed at least 20 million victims.
Not all European Union countries pay equal attention to the problem.
There are countries that allocate national resources in a responsible manner, but there are also countries that clearly underestimate the threat of the disease and, in particular, its possible consequences.
National plans for prevention and immunisation should be drawn up in cooperation with European institutions and Member States.
The Commission and the Council must lay down measures.
The profession must be compensated, as must the citizens to whom we owe protection from misleading information and speculation and planned support. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with warm thanks to the Commissioner for the clarity of his statement, from which it would appear that the EU and its Member States are relatively well prepared.
Secondly, Mr Bowis and others have already pointed out that a system of inoculation will not be enough to contain the pandemic that threatens us.
What that means is that there is an urgent need for a change of approach where the production of vaccines is concerned, and it also goes without saying that we can work much more quickly with cell cultures such as MPS.
It is true that we had a simulation exercise last week for smallpox.
Today the Commission is proposing to discuss with the standing committee the ban on imports of wild captive birds to the European Union.
The idea of that regulation is to reimburse the cost of use of antivirals or vaccines in the event of a pandemic.
That is the important conference, where funds should be pledged to support the most affected countries in this effort.
Seasonal vaccination is the correct approach, but it involves an investment towards increasing the manufacturing capacity and will at the same time help the groups at risk to deal with this problem.
We need both national and Community plans.
Each country has its own peculiarities, so each country needs to have its own plan, but we have a Community plan.
We have the system and the legislation in place, and we will use them.
The European Centre for Disease Control is very active in this effort.
Member States and the Commission are linked together in an effective way with an early warning system and are in contact and cooperation with the WHO.
Eradication measures are financed or co-financed by the Commission, but the compensation for loss of profit or market is a matter being discussed in the Agriculture Council.
I therefore believe that, with the right effort, we can minimise the number of deaths in the event of a pandemic.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – Despite the recent alarmist statements, it remains difficult today to grasp what health risks there are and to put a figure on the probability of the H5N1 virus mutating into a form that can be transmitted to, and between, human beings.
The threat of a pandemic is real.
Until now, this virus has caused 112 cases of human influenza, including 57 deaths, all of which were confined to South-East Asia.
Strengthening coordination and transparency between Member States, and protecting Europe’s borders at the same time as assuming our duty of solidarity towards third countries, are principles that must guide our actions.
That would be damaging not only for Parma but for the entire European Union and for its training. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Republic of Chile, Presidents of the Chilean Congress and Senate, ladies and gentlemen, it is our privilege today to receive the President of the Republic of Chile, don Ricardo Lagos Escobar, who is accompanied also by the Presidents of the two Chilean parliamentary houses.
In the collective memory of the Chileans and of all of the world’s democrats, it is with emotion that we remember the image of Ricardo Lagos on a television programme that has made history, looking at the camera and pointing his finger, confronting Pinochet and opening up the path that would lead millions of Chileans to vote ‘no’ in the 1988 referendum, through which Pinochet hoped to remain in power.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Aymara language, Chile means ‘the place where the world ends’ and sure enough, at the border of the Bio-Bio river, the world ended, because the Spanish conquest came to an end there in the face of fierce Araucanian resistance.
Today, I stand before you as the President of a democratic country, in which a broad political and social coalition has successfully remained in government for fifteen years.
We have succeeded in recovering our citizenship and our democratic institutions.
For more than half a century, you have managed to combine democracy, a market economy and a high level of social cohesion, compatible with macroeconomic balances and with a welfare State or, better, with a social protection network.
The truth about human rights violations is now public and acknowledged.
As President Borrell said, Chile now has a strong and robust democracy.
The protection of the environment is now part of the collective imagination and it has been enshrined in important public policies that were recently analysed by the OECD.
That is the enormity of the change we have made in Chile: it is a more libertarian country, with more solidarity, which is more progressive, more open to a world on which we want to leave our mark.
We must find a just balance between social protection and the conditions for maintaining competitiveness.
The European debate is sometimes our debate — I am aware of the situation that this Parliament is currently undergoing and I do not want to get into issues that are part of your debate — but I would, however, like to point out that, although Chile has often been presented as a neo-liberal model, the reality could not be more different.
And when they threatened me with strikes, I said, ‘Alright, but go on strike in the morning and in the afternoon’.
Reform therefore involves an enormous change in favour of primary healthcare.
In other words, your debate is sometimes our debate.
We also want to enhance our integration into the world economy.
In our case, globalisation has opened up new possibilities, including for small economies that are far from the main international centres.
At a time, therefore, when our country was on the Security Council, we said no to an invasion of Iraq if the decision was taken outside of the Security Council.
These shared values and objectives form the basis of the Association Agreement signed by Chile with the European Union on 18 November 2002.
The European Parliament approved this agreement unanimously, in a political gesture that Chile acknowledges and is grateful for.
Some of our brothers and sisters are making the opposite journey to the one centuries ago that brought mass European migration towards our continent.
We are following the European Union’s negotiations with our brothers and sisters in Mercosur with interest and hope.
A Europe committed to free trade that contributes to the success of the Doha Round.
A Europe that is in favour of multilateralism and seeks to give globalisation a human face.
Thank you for telling us that sometimes, wrapped up in our own problems, we lose sight of the importance of our project.
In fact, Europe is not just a project for its own sake, but also responds to a need in the world.
As Cypriot Members of this House – and in particular Members of our parliamentary group – have said, these flights are in breach of the principles of civil aviation and international law.
I wish to point out that of the 103 amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading, the common position has adopted only 41, and some of those only in part.
Among the rejected proposals were issues as important as information and transparency, which have since been taken up.
Proposals aimed at retaining animal by-products and other waste under the scope of the directive have also been taken up.
One basic condition of such imports is, however, that agreements entered into on an international basis should be complied with and that the transported waste should not constitute an environmental risk for other Member States.
Protection of the environment must be a top priority, and I hope that both Council and Parliament will agree.
I regret that this is being dealt with under a legal base that requires unanimity in Council.
I voted in favour of excluding animal by products from the waste shipment rules as they are adequately covered by other legislation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Pack report in spite of the unfortunate rejection of Mr Tajani’s amendment, which I viewed as extremely important.
As such, even with the modest increases in grants, young people and other people on low incomes are still unable to take part. &#160;&#160; Because the financial perspective for 2007-2013 has been rejected by the European Council, we cannot now debate the action programme and its six sub-programmes for the aforesaid period.
In particular I welcome proposals to simplify procedures, and to decentralise administration.
This report has my wholehearted support.
It is indicative of the high quality of the Commission’s proposal, which, on the back of past results, has set more ambitious objectives for the new programme.
The Community’s measures in this area have helped to define quality indicators in education and has encouraged the spread of good practice.
The existing Community instruments naturally complement the measures taken by the Member States and the Commission’s proposal is to streamline the existing instruments in the field.
The Commission has therefore tabled more ambitious proposals requiring a substantial increase in funding.
We therefore back the report’s call for a substantial increase in the funds made available, and welcome its clarification of the fundamental values that we want to promote among young people, such as respect for human dignity, equality, respect for human rights, tolerance and non-discrimination.
Furthermore, we welcome the amendments intended to place greater emphasis on the following aspects: equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination; and the fight against all forms of exclusion and discrimination including those on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, in accordance with Article 13 of the Treaty.
International youth exchanges are a good thing but need to be provided for financially through the efforts of civil society or through the agency of the Member States.
The involvement and active participation of young people in the proposed Youth Week is desirable, and I supported amendments by my Group which sought to underline this. &#160;&#160; . – This report concerns the ‘development of European citizenship’.
Let us therefore affirm that we are obviously in favour of protecting Europe’s cultural heritage but that the culture budget should not become an annex to the EU communication budget.
The ‘Youth in Action’ programme covers five measures and will cost EUR&#160;915&#160;million.
The current YOUTH programme will come to an end in 2006 and this proposal is for a successor programme – YOUTH in Action – which will cover the period 2007-2013.
If the recommendations are carried out, the new programme will be simpler, less bureaucratic and easier to access.
The programme will now be funded from one heading rather than four and projects will be managed on a decentralised basis.
The programme also takes into consideration the requirements of the Lisbon Process. &#160;&#160; I support programmes for voluntary service and youth in/for the world, especially involving cooperation with non-EU countries.
On the one hand, it could represent an opportunity to foster not only cultural (artistic and scientific) creativity, research and dissemination, but also the democratisation (and not only the expansion) of access to cultural fulfilment and production.
On the other hand, even if some positive results ensure – because of or in spite of the programme – this could prove to be a form of mass cultural subjugation, an attempt to engender an obedient culture, or a new step on the road to the establishment of a cultural and ideological hegemony.
Whilst the objective of promoting the transnational mobility of cultural players could reflect a desire to promote a more international perspective, and could be indicative of the element of cultural output that aspires to dialogue and more universal aims, it could also serve other less cultural and more financial interests.
The June List is of the view that cultural policy should in principle be taken care of by the Member States.
The June List has therefore chosen to vote against this report. &#160;&#160; . – The aim of Culture 2007 is to modify the procedures used for awarding grants so that they are simpler than those used in the context of Culture 2000.
In response to the famous words of Jean Monnet, who said: ‘if it were to be done again, I would begin with culture’, two remarks can be made: - that is a stupid thing to say, since European culture already existed, and had always existed; it is precisely for that reason that we talk about Europe! - thank goodness the technocrats in Brussels are not in charge of culture; otherwise it would be in a sad state today; one only need look at what happened to agriculture and the steel industry. &#160;&#160; I have chosen to abstain in the final vote on the Culture programme 2007-2013.
Certainly, it is important to promote intercultural dialogue, cross-border cultural projects and cultural exchanges that increase understanding of different cultures in Europe and that help give European citizenship some practical content.
The most practical feature of the European Parliament’s report is, however, a very large increase in the budget appropriations compared with what is proposed by the Commission.
Since I cannot support this budget increase, I have chosen to abstain from voting on the report.
I believe that the Commission’s proposal as to how much money should be budgeted for the culture programme is perfectly adequate. &#160;&#160; I welcomed this report which establishes a new programme for cultural cooperation across Europe from 2007-2013.
In the new programme for the period 2007-2013, measures are put forward with a view to promoting dialogue and mutual knowledge of European culture.
This is particularly true when we are addressing issues such as improving the knowledge and dissemination of the culture and history of the people of Europe and conserving and safeguarding cultural heritage of European significance.
I should therefore like to stress the importance of exchanging good practice in the area of Europe’s cultural heritage, the mobility of artists and new forms of cultural expression.
I voted in favour of the Graça Moura report. &#160;&#160; I have always spoken up for culture, but this programme removes resources from national culture budgets.
Even the proposal of EUR&#160;408 million is an increase of 72%.
The previous MEDIA programmes produced good results.
Now, that programme is setting itself more ambitious goals, such as full cultural integration of the enlarged Europe.
In the debate, these amendments gained the support of many Members and were mentioned by the Commissioner, whom I would ask to take account … &#160;&#160; .
I am sure that Mr Borrell will be grateful for that suggestion and will write the letter to which you refer.
What I actually wanted to do now was to announce as the next item the Commission statement on progress towards accession by Bulgaria and Romania.
I assume that honourable Members will want to hear the Commissioner before they make their own contributions.
First of all, I welcome the opportunity of presenting the results of our intensive monitoring of Bulgaria’s and Romania’s preparations for accession and also holding an exchange of views with you on this important issue.
When we opened accession negotiations in early 2000 with an additional six candidate countries, we could not know how long the accession negotiations with each of them would finally take.
The accession of Bulgaria and Romania will therefore complete this fifth round of enlargement, encompassing 12&#160;countries in total.
Overall, the reports on the two countries show that both have continued to make progress in fulfilling their accession requirements.
Bulgaria, having rather lost momentum after the conclusion of the negotiations in summer 2004, has now worked energetically to make up for lost time after the parliamentary elections of June 2005.
Romania has caught up impressively in the fields of justice reform, competition policy and the state aids regime, as well as the overall level of alignment with EU legislation.
In particular, efforts are needed to pursue the reform of public administration, to implement effectively the reform of the justice system and to step up the fight against corruption, particularly high-level corruption.
In the area of human rights and the protection of minorities and vulnerable groups, further efforts are needed by Bulgaria and Romania.
Both registered robust economic growth last year: 5.6% in Bulgaria and 8.3% in Romania.
In the case of Bulgaria, particular attention has to be paid to the widening current account deficit.
As regards alignment with the EU legal order – the – we have screened in detail legislative and administrative preparations across 140 separate areas within all 29 chapters.
In the second category, there are areas where the state of preparations calls for increased efforts.
Some of these areas require a technical solution.
With regard to these areas of serious concern, I would like to make three particular points.
Secondly, we are also seriously concerned about areas linked to the functioning of the internal market and to the internal security of the European Union.
These include, for example, shortcomings identified in the veterinary sector, which could put at risk the sustainability of food safety in the enlarged EU, and the control of external borders in both countries.
The third area of particular concern is the fight against corruption, where too limited progress has been made so far.
The Commission will continue to support Bulgaria’s and Romania’s efforts to prepare for accession to the European Union.
The total volume of pre-accession assistance available is substantial.
The Commission will also pursue its intensive monitoring of Bulgaria’s and Romania’s preparations.
We hope that steps undertaken by both countries will lead us to conclude that such a recommendation is not necessary.
As formally confirmed by President&#160;Barroso to President Borrell before the summer break, I will also seriously consider your views on the matter before issuing a recommendation on whether or not to postpone the accession of either one or both of the countries.
Now is not the time to speculate on the Commission’s recommendation, but for the acceding countries to concentrate all their energy on the outstanding shortcomings identified in our reports.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the constant interest and support of the European Parliament for Bulgaria’s and Romania’s accession process.
The European Parliament has played a decisive role in ensuring that the fifth round of enlargement is well prepared.
I would like to thank him for that, and also for what he has said about the procedure agreed with this House at the time of the ratification last spring, according to which Parliament is again consulted on the accession date before the Commission puts its decision to the Council.
We have to consider the progress these countries have made; they belong to the Group of Twelve, of which 10 have already become Member States, and so their eventual accession to the European Union is not a matter of doubt.
The question is whether this is to happen, as the Treaties require, on 1 January 2007, or a year later, although there is the possibility of whole chapters being annulled up to three years after their accession if they are not implemented as they need to be.
I am sure that our rapporteurs, and also the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will, acting on this plenary’s behalf and in partnership with the Commission, apply the most exact judgment in determining whether the conditions are right for accession to take place on 1 January 2007.
These countries are being given the chance to make up the time they lost as a result of their internal political circumstances, but reference has been made to desperately serious matters that give rise to grave cause for concern, such as, among others, these countries’ absorption capacity and the capacity of the internal market to operate.
There are also questions touching upon the justice system, such as the fight against corruption, and also on the development of administration to enable the internal market to function, which is in these countries’ interests and also in the interests of the European Union.
If the European Union’s citizens are to see it as being capable of further development, it must be clear that there is nothing automatic about these things, but that, on the contrary, we are taking the examination of the conditions seriously and will act only after having done so, rather than out of political compliance.
I should also like to pay tribute to the work carried out by the Commission, which is, I believe, entirely in accordance both with the conclusions of the European Council and with the resolutions voted in favour of by our Parliament.
I believe that it successfully marks the progress made, that it highlights what limits exist and that it points out what efforts remain to be made, and, as Mr&#160;Brok has just said, this approach has, I believe, our full support.
Holding debates on one particular country or another’s relation to the EU’s borders is all very well, but such debates obviously do not apply to Romania and Bulgaria, as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has just said.
My second conclusion: the Commission’s report highlights both the progress and the efforts that need to be made.
My third conclusion: I agree with the procedure now proposed by the Commission.
Today is not the time to give a definitive opinion on the safeguard clause; it would be premature to do so.
The monitoring exercise has to be pursued extremely strictly, and, in this respect, it is relevant to arrange for a meeting to be held in April or May.
I would remind the Commissioner that the European Parliament wants to be fully involved in making the final decision.
I will conclude by reaffirming a desire, which I know is shared on all, or almost all, sides of this Chamber: we want Romania and Bulgaria to join the EU, and we want them to do so on 1 January 2007.
It remains intact after the reports have been read but, as the Commission’s report highlights, Romania and Bulgaria hold the key to their membership.
The spirit in which we will support the Commission will remain unchanged, and that spirit is one of not only offering friendship and trust but also of making demands. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really am very glad indeed that we are able to have this first debate on this subject with our observers present.
In terms of economic performance, the country is definitely in the overtaking lane.
Its dynamism and 6.2% growth rate – the sort of growth I wish my own country could produce – gives confidence to the foreign investors who are discovering Bulgaria as a place in which to put their money.
The successes that have been achieved cannot make their impact felt when corruption is unchecked, the law is unstable, and long overdue reforms are not carried out.
On 15 October, the Bulgarian parliament passed a new Code of Criminal Procedure; while this is an important step in the right direction, it is one that has taken too long.
Paper is patient, but we are not; a lack of ambition is not something that Bulgaria can afford at this decisive point in its history.
I might add that I believe we should be holding this debate in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, earlier this year, my group had its own doubts about the new government, but we were very much in favour of giving it the opportunity to address a large number of serious problems.
Allow me to single out two of them.
The image we in the Netherlands, but also in many other Member States, have of Romania is determined in the public mind by the notion that that country suffers greatly from corruption, whether that be at low level or the highest level.
Secondly, with regard to the environment and food safety, the Commission has turned its attention to another issue that is a sensitive one for many members of the European public, that being food safety.
The Commission is right to focus on this.
This is inconsistent with reports issued by Greenpeace, among others, which are far more alarming.
A country such as this cannot join the European Union just like that.
In the unlikely event of this not being done, then it should be possible to defer accession by one year.
That too, is part and parcel of the rules. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, for more than 30 years, first the European Communities and then the European Union have been involved in enlarging the number of Member States and have swallowed up other cooperatives.
With regard to Romania and Bulgaria, a decision was taken in April to the effect that they are allowed to join as the rearguard of the 10 newcomers of 2004.
I now hear comments, even in this House, about tracing a final external border for Europe, about restricting the solidarity contribution from the rich to the poor Member States, about the use of national referendums as a means whereby current Member States can reject newcomers and even about suspending any enlargement until such time as the people in France and the Netherlands get round to rubberstamping the Constitution that they emphatically rejected.
Although my group does not condone the economic and military choices in that Constitution, or the democratic deficit that the text reinforces, our criticism is not levelled at the new Member States, with a lower standard of living, that seek to join the EU.
Indeed, the contrary is the case; their admission could help the European Union focus more on common, large-scale and cross-border issues and less on unnecessary interference in matters that could be better evaluated and ordered on a smaller scale.
The President and Prime Minister were at loggerheads in public over new elections.
Commissioner Rehn’s efforts made it possible for this danger to the country’s political stability to be averted in good time, but for how long?
All of this is taking place at a critical stage of Romania’s accession to the European Union.
I would like to ask the Commissioner what he thinks of President Basescu’s political sense of responsibility in this matter.
A second difficulty concerns solid border control by the Romanian authorities.
The new government should, in any event, be measured against its moral claims.
Commissioner, our group is particularly appreciative not only of your speech but also of the systematic dialogue and discussion between Parliament and the Commission.
With regard to the accession of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union, I should like to remind our observers that there is a very substantial majority in this Parliament in favour of their two countries.
Here in Parliament there is even a majority in favour of the accession of Turkey, so it is hardly surprising that there is also a majority favourable and attentive to your membership.
There is no doubt – as already emphasised and now reiterated by us in this Chamber – that progress, even substantial progress, has been made.
Our wish is for both Bulgaria and Romania to join the European Union in 2007.
However, some problems have to be solved – and solved by you.
The observers at today’s session should take away with them Parliament's goodwill but also its concerns.
The delays that still exist must be eliminated, particularly in the areas of corruption and internal security.
The events of recent days give us all cause for great concern in the areas of the environment and health, and there are worries on the conditions of the external borders.
We therefore invite you to take up this great challenge, because we want to have you here with us in 2007. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, on 25&#160;April the Treaty concerning the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the European Union was signed in Luxembourg.
In spite of the many criticisms voiced, no&#160;one disputed the fact that Romania and Bulgaria are part of the European family.
This continues to be the case today, and in fact the opposite is true.
Previous speakers have already underlined the fact that shortcomings still exist in the fields of public administration, the judiciary and respect for human rights, in particular the rights of the mentally ill, as reported by Amnesty International.
As a Pole, I understand this well, and I would encourage Romanians and Bulgarians to fight this scourge from within and without.
The two countries should take today’s criticism as an incentive to undertake further efforts to ensure that accession can take place on 1&#160;January&#160;2007.
I am quite sure that Romania and Bulgaria too want a strong and just Europe that is capable of making demands of itself and of others. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I speak as the rapporteur for Bulgaria.
Progress has continued in Bulgaria.
The rule of law and therefore judicial reform, combating corruption and organised crime are the prerequisites for everything else, including economic performance.
On the basis of today’s report, I see no reason why that date should be missed. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, in recent years, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has shown itself to be a consistent advocate of the EU’s enlargement through the accession of countries from Central and Eastern Europe.
That is why on 13 April of this year, the Socialist Group, by an overwhelming majority, voted to endorse the accession treaties with Bulgaria and Romania.
Since there was a 20-month interval between the time of approval by the European Parliament and the planned date of accession, namely 1 January 2007, this approval was given in the full knowledge that in both Romania and Bulgaria, further progress should be made in a number of important areas before they can fully comply with the EU’s membership requirements.
In my group, though, there was also the confidence that both countries should be deemed capable of taking the necessary steps prior to the ultimate accession and of actually implementing those.
It should be noted that the inclusion of a safeguard clause which makes it possible to defer the date of accession by one year, along with the firm promise by both the Commission and the Council to involve the European Parliament fully in a decision about a possible application of this safeguard clause has played a major part in our giving consent.
The Socialist Group is consistent in its policy on the enlargement of the European Union.
As was the case when the 10 new Member States joined last year, we want the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to be a success for the people of both countries, of course, without them presenting an unacceptable burden to the present European Union.
As we see it, the areas of concern and criticism mentioned in the reports are mainly a guideline for the governments and parliaments of both Bulgaria and Romania to take the necessary measures in the time that remains.
It is totally irrelevant, for that matter, to our group’s support for the enlargement or our criticism of progress of the accession process, who and which parties are in power in either country.
The reports presented by the Commission today do not fill us with the confidence that is needed to conclude at this stage that both Romania and Bulgaria will meet the conditions for accession on 1 January 2007 to a sufficient degree.
We can, however, see a reason for moderate optimism that both countries will be able to meet the set requirements at the next assessment, the one that really counts, in April of next year.
On a personal level – because I have much experience in dealing with this problem – I should like to add that both reports are right to express the Commission’s concern about the situation of the Roma in both countries, and the fact the governments in both countries still have no adequate and effective way of addressing this problem.
I think that this issue should carry a lot of weight in our final verdict.
It is an important point to us, but also to the Roma in both countries.
Following a period of stagnation and delays in connection with parliamentary elections and the problems involving the forming of government, the Bulgarian Government seems to have picked up where it left off with renewed energy and decisiveness.
It is reassuring to establish that that country’s key political parties have joined forces in order to guide their country into the European Union together.
I would like to urge the key political parties in Romania, the Romanian Government and the country’s President, to demonstrate that same level of unanimity where the accession is concerned and not waste valuable time on political wrangling.
Finally, I should like to announce that my group, the Socialist Group, obviously in cooperation with the Commission, will, in the coming months, be carrying out its own analysis of progress made in the accession process.
In that way, this spring, we will be able to take the decision whether both countries are really ready to take on all responsibilities of EU membership in a well-considered fashion and according to agreements made. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I warmly congratulate Commissioner Rehn and his expert team in Brussels, as well as Mr Jonathan Scheele and his expert team in Bucharest.
We have the enlargement minister from Romania in the diplomatic gallery with us today, as well as the minister for child protection and the minister for child adoption, Mrs Teodora Bertzi.
Perhaps, therefore, I could comment most warmly on the triumph of the reform of child protection that has taken place during the period under discussion, since 1999.
The result now is that Romania offers a model that has been widely acclaimed and applauded as providing, in some ways, even better services and better protection for her six-and-a-half million children than some EU Member States, and certainly other countries in the wider neighbourhood.
I believe we shall learn more about that model as it becomes replicated elsewhere in the coming months and years.
Nevertheless, I will pass on the message to the President of Parliament and he can tell the UK Presidency that we always appreciate its presence in the Chamber. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, absent Presidency, it was only to be expected that the progress report put before us today would confirm that Bulgaria and Romania do not yet meet the Copenhagen criteria.
My own experience of the problems that the Visegrad states have with accession to the EU and my own knowledge of the Romanian and Bulgarian accession agenda lead me to be very sceptical about 1 January 2007 as a deadline.
It was in meetings with NGOs, particularly in private conversations, that the state of play in the various areas under negotiation was described much more clearly, and in terms at once more sober and more dramatic.
There is no evading the conclusions with which these problems present us: the legal system is lacking in transparency, there is organised crime, problems with minorities and the Roma, corruption, and problems with agriculture and the environment.
Even taking into account the natural disasters with which both countries have been afflicted, it is, regrettably, to be expected that they will find it difficult to make the grade in the short time available; they will have to make a very considerable effort to make it even by 2008. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;I find it hard to know whether Mr&#160;Horáček was talking about the situation in the old EU Member States, or that in Romania and Bulgaria.
These include the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, and, perhaps even more importantly, the European social model, non-interference in the domestic affairs of Member States and solidarity.
The basic question that needs to be asked about the accession of Romania and Bulgaria is whether we really want to accept these countries into an EU of 27 as equals.
We must not allow the low social standards in some of the new Member States to be used as a battering ram to reverse the social achievements of more advanced Member States.
It is our duty to help the new Member States to achieve the best possible conditions and to negotiate appropriate transitional periods when Romania and Bulgaria join the Community, instead of harping on about problems in these new Member States that we ourselves face in our own countries.
A practical example would be the steel industry.
If Mr Mittal is successful in his rumoured takeover of Corus/British Steel, no doubt they will follow MG Rover into Blair-sponsored oblivion. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I, too, am glad to be able to welcome observers from Romania and Bulgaria to this House today.
They, as representatives of their peoples, need to know that the Romanian and Bulgarian people must, of course, after 50&#160;years of Communist tyranny and servitude, have the prospect of membership of the European Union, and that it is self-evident that they are part of Europe – in utter contrast to Turkey, in my opinion.
It is because of financial problems such as these and, above all, the ongoing predominance of the as yet incompletely resolved problems that both these countries have with such things as burgeoning corruption, organised crime, unemployment and poverty, but particularly the outstanding deficiencies in the monitoring and control of their borders that this project of continued enlargement really does need thorough preparation.
The report that you are presenting to us today is therefore very important, Commissioner Rehn.
I know that the Rumanian authorities are also aware of this serious problem, since President Basescu made the fight against corruption one of the key issues during last year’s presidential elections.
Another important area, and one to which the Rumanian authorities must apply more energy, as the Commissioner has told us, is the proper operation of the control of borders through enhancing personnel and providing them with better training; the Accession Treaty also stresses the importance of this area.
I do not have time to go into specific areas, but I would like to stress that the priority attention paid by the Rumanian authorities to the issue of competition and State aid has yielded very good results.
This is an area to which the Treaty attaches very great importance, as well as the effective date of accession.
The report presented to us today by the Commissioner will be read carefully, in a constructive but vigilant and demanding spirit.
They will have our full support in this task. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if I may remain with Mr Lagendijk’s footballing analogy, the Commission may well have shown both Romania and Bulgaria the yellow card, but that certainly does not prevent the Romanian and Bulgarian teams from having a chance of completing accession in 2007, provided that they play well enough and fairly enough.
The Commission was quite right to point out that they have made progress in many areas, but that a number of issues are still outstanding.
Further to what Mr Wiersma said about Romania, I hope that political debate in that country will tend more towards a common European position and that the temptation to divide the country will be resisted.
We will, quite obviously, be carefully observing what the two countries and their governments do to remedy the deficiencies that remain, including not only the major problem of corruption, but also the issue of the situation of the Roma, to which reference has already been made, and to which we, not only in this House, have returned time and time again, with – as I see it – progress being made.
All these things will need to be monitored if it is to be possible eventually, in 2007 or 2008, to come to a decision, and one that must take into account these countries’ well-being, for what matters, after all, is that they be enabled to take the right steps.
That is not to say that there were no problems, but it does, in fact, have the potential to make the European Union stronger, if we work through it together.
This morning, we had a debate on social standards and social models in Europe, and it is in that area that there are fears that the standards that we have established with a great deal of effort will simply be broken asunder.
It is surely not acceptable – and, in saying this, I know that I have my group’s unreserved backing – that we should, now that we are in a process of enlargement and integration, cut ourselves off again and leave our neighbours’ workers, capital or interests standing, so to speak, at the gate.
We have to be reasonable about the way we plan the transitional process and try together, in so far as possible, to come up with a new social standard, rather than leaving the door wide open to social dumping.
Candidate countries or countries with an ambition along those lines not only join an economic area, but also choose to take part in the political union, the European legal community.
Let there be no doubt, though, I am in favour of both countries joining, but regard it as vitally important that this be done on the basis of what we have agreed to. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is good news from Bulgaria, but also alarming news.
Since June’s elections, Bulgaria has had Ataka, a neo-Nazi party, in its Parliament.
Their strategy is to divert people’s attention from high-level corruption by raising anti-Roma, anti-Semitic and anti-minority sentiments in Bulgaria.
In Bulgaria, for example, overall agricultural production has fallen by more than 50% so that the products of the multinationals of Europe, whose interests you defend, can be sold.
The multinationals of Europe will buy up land in Bulgaria and Romania.
The health and education system is breaking down.
You talk of democratic freedoms, of rights, but you say nothing about the legislative ban on the action of the communist party in Romania.
You say nothing about the unprecedented prison sentence being served since February 1999 by the president of the Confederation of Romanian Miners' Unions, Miron Cosma, who was imprisoned for defending the interests of the miners being made redundant by the thousand.
This situation also has consequences for Greece.
As wages are very cheap, this precise situation results in companies relocating to these countries, especially from the area of northern Greece, in order to increase their profits.
So welcome to the European Union, the land of promise, of 20 million unemployed, of 50 million in poverty, the European Union that crushes the rights of the workers so that big business can make untold fortunes. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the June List will welcome Romania and Bulgaria as Members of the European Union in the same way as we shall welcome Turkey, the countries of the Western Balkans and, in time, Ukraine and, hopefully, Belarus.
I wish to sound a warning about the problems that will be faced by the EU if, over a very short period, we accept as Members a large number of countries that are poor and economically undeveloped, that have little experience of democracy and of government under the rule of law and that have major problems involving corruption.
To now accept poor countries such as Romania and Bulgaria into an EU that continues to be encumbered by an absurd agricultural policy and a badly managed structural policy and that is grappling with difficulties in preventing waste and corruption in its own system would be dangerous for the future of the European project.
I believe that the pressure to improve democracy, human rights, the judicial system and public administration and to set up a functioning market economy is strongest, on the one hand, before membership negotiations have begun and, on the other, before the country has been accepted as a Member.
The Commission’s report on the state of things in Romania and Bulgaria is unconvincing on these different points.
In this situation, membership for both countries should be postponed until a later date.
This would be in the long-term interests of both the European Union and the two candidate countries. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only in early October, the Romanian Prime Minister, Mr Popescu, stated that the enormous increase in organised crime in Bulgaria is at risk of jeopardising the accession of both countries in 2007 and that the safeguard clause will have to be applied to defer their accession until 1 January 2008.
Popescu’s statements have now been corroborated by the Commission, whose report states, in black and white, that corruption in both countries – not, therefore, only in Bulgaria – has taken on such dimensions that it is putting at risk the future of the EU’s internal market and the programmes funded by the EU.
Bulgaria and Romania are European countries that, just like the other Central and Eastern European countries, are entitled to join the Union, but they do need to be ready to do so.
The inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria in the EU is a historical moment.
We would have to examine a number of areas, and not only in light of the official statistics, but based on everyday reality.
At the same time, significant measures have been introduced in respect of the reform of the judicial system.
Although the report still mentions it as a positive development, I must inform the Commissioner that the Romanian Senate rejected the Minority Act yesterday.
It is truly a first important stage towards Romania’s and Bulgaria’s accession to the EU.
A great deal of progress has been made, including progress shared by a large part of the people.
However, achieving such progress has been very difficult for the people of Bulgaria because a great deal of effort was required of them.
Yet, you have also highlighted a large number of grey areas.
Like you, I have to admit that the integration of minorities is a very difficult problem in these countries.
Bulgaria has problems with corruption, property rights and security.
Finally, I should like to say that, while we must be rigorous and demanding in our dealings with these two new countries, we must also realise that their arrival in the EU will add a new dimension to Europe and that, at last, we will together be able to turn the page on Yalta. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now one year since the vote on the Moscovici report on progress by Romania and Bulgaria towards accession.
The European Parliament must keep this problem under close scrutiny and ask Romania to comply with its institutional promises.
The months remaining before the accession of these two countries to the Union will give them the chance of joining Europe without being at the bottom of the class, and will allow us to have the necessary and prudential assurances that accession will occur with full consciousness and on an equal footing.
Naturally, this is our ambition, in order to achieve the dream shared by Romano Prodi with the citizens of Europe when, as President of the Commission, he strongly supported enlargement and expressed the wish for a united Europe able to offer a robust political project, to restore confidence to those looking nervously at the major changes taking place in our time, and thus enable us to be the architects of an international action with a human face.
Its approach to managing the delta had succeeded, until now, in striking the right balance between promoting the various activities taking place in the delta and protecting its fabulous biodiversity.
On the other hand, I entirely support Romania’s accession to the European Union but, in doing so, I call on the Romanian authorities to get to grips with the environment and to undertake effectively to protect it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is because our political attitudes are often shaped by imagery in constant use that I want to object to the use of the ‘yellow card’ analogy, which is so frequent nowadays.
The country is slowly recuperating economically and most probably it will meet the objectives by the date of accession.
An increase in trade with Member States bears witness to this positive factor.
For example, the resignation of five high officials within the office against organised crime, makes us ask a lot of questions and the Bulgarian Government should take immediate action before more harm is done.
The proposals for a reform in the national service against organised crime should be revised so that the system will start operating with the least possible number of problems.
Yes Mr President, fundamental rights are indispensable so that the Bulgarian people live as they deserve after long years of Communist rule.
If Bulgaria does not adhere to these basic principles, I and a number of others in this Chamber will find it difficult to accept Bulgaria as a member of this Union.
Thus I hope that the Bulgarian authorities will overcome these obstacles so that they can join the European Union by 2007. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I, too, would like to greet the observers, in particular because they are here with us today as a result of the insistence of the Socialist faction that following the signing of the Accession Agreement on 25 April, they should also be allowed to study the work of Parliament, alongside that of the other EU institutions, to facilitate a smooth accession process.
Both the Enlargement Commissioner and my colleagues have already listed the shortcomings found in the two countries, and I am not going to repeat them, as I am certain that the observers will pass them on to their countries.
However, I welcome the fact that following the elections on 25th June the new government of Bulgaria is headed by Socialists, because Socialists have always been pro-enlargement both in the new Member States and in the pre-accession states.
As the Commissioner has mentioned, legislation has been speeded up in the past two months, and thirty laws have been introduced with a view to accession, regarding matters that had been criticised by the Commission, in areas such as the fight against corruption, judicial system reforms and organised crime.
Their only possibility of joining the EU is together with Romania, and accession would enable them to live happily with us in a common Europe without borders. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the enlargement and unification of Europe will not of course be complete without our friends Romania and Bulgaria.
We in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe are delighted to have our colleagues here in the form of observers.
We are impressed by the progress made in both countries but, at the same time, we must of course examine this progress, the implementation of the relevant measures, and any remaining problems.
The Commissioner indicated a number of these problems: areas requiring further measures as a matter of some urgency.
Unfortunately, discrimination and racist violence still occur, and too often it is on the part of the authorities.
Another storm cloud mentioned by certain colleagues has to do with children, especially those children cared for in institutions, among them children with mental disabilities.
Enlargement is not about aimlessly accepting new Members whenever we want and whenever public opinion in our countries allows us to.
To see Bulgaria’s and Romania’s accession to the EU as an isolated phenomenon would be a mistake because many challenges await us over the next few years, such as the debate on Kosovo’s status, the referendum, Montenegro’s independence, continued discussions with Bosnia and Serbia and Macedonia’s application for membership.
No one, either in this Chamber or in Romania and Bulgaria, believes that we should accept any country unless it fulfils the criteria, but nor should we disqualify any country in advance.
If Europe has become more selfish and closed in on itself, it is our duty to make it more generous and open.
That is what makes us European political leaders who accept our responsibility. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as so many footballing metaphors have been laboured, perhaps I might be allowed to make a few comments on the rules of the game.
I would, though, like to make two observations, which are addressed to us ourselves and to the two countries in question.
He also, though, more or less openly stated that deferment of accession beyond the envisaged date of 2007 is absolutely out of the question.
There can be no input on the part of the European Union, nor can any kind of discount be given.
It used to be very comfortable to travel in convoy, with one country’s weaknesses being compensated for by another’s strengths, but those days are no more; from now on, every country will be judged separately. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we, the Liberals, support the accession of Romania on 1 January 2007.
This is still possible, even in light of the report presented by the Commissioner.
The government has done a lot, but a lot more remains to be done.
The reform of the judicial system is stalling; action against corruption is tentative and unsuccessful.
In any case, we will hold him to account for this promise.
We, the Liberals, and I believe all factions of Parliament, will give her all the support in this respect, but most of the work must be done by Romania. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, firstly, to extend a warm welcome to the observers from Bulgaria and Romania.
I should also like to underline the sterling work of Commissioner Rehn and to remind all Members that the method of comprehensive monitoring reports we are adopting is the same approach used for the other 10 States which joined the Union on 1 May 2004.
In 10% of these areas.
Commissioner Rehn himself spoke of the energetic way in which Bulgaria has managed to recover the time spent on the elections, and Romania’s impressive catching-up on issues such as legal reform, competition and, in general, all those sectors in which they were requested to achieve alignment.
During this final phase of the process, we in Parliament and the Commission want to help rather than to hinder.
In Bulgaria, the political forces have been able to put together a government of national unity and everybody seems to be joining forces in order to move forward in the best possible way towards Community integration.
Without evaluating the situation any further, we shall merely state that we believe that arguments amongst the country’s main political forces does not appear to be the best way to make progress on the consensus for reforms and for the negotiations with the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Bulgaria and Romania have formally closed the accession negotiations, but before they become Member States with full rights, they must eliminate the deficiencies pointed out in the last European Parliament resolution and the new European Commission report.
The situation of Romania is more complex.
The young government of the country is making serious efforts to eliminate the deficiencies and deserves to be commended for this.
But they still have a great number of problems to tackle, in areas like the judicial system and internal affairs, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and environmental protection.
Another crucial issue is that of the gold mine at Rosia Montana, although Foreign Minister Ungureanu had promised back in spring that he would solve this issue within six months.
The new government endeavours to develop an effective system, but there are still many irregularities to be eliminated, things that are completely unacceptable to the EU.
When Bulgaria and Romania join the EU, the number of Roma people in the EU will rise by approximately half, and this means that a long term strategy must be developed.
The situation of ethnic minorities has improved considerably in the past decade, but it is still far from being satisfactory.
I would just like to warn Romanian politicians to avoid making statements to the effect that Romania already extensively guarantees all the rights of ethnic minorities.
Hungarians are present in the government and in public administration, and can therefore have their say in the internal and foreign policy of the country.
It is the task of the European Parliament to inspect all of this consistently, but at the same time it must also provide maximum assistance.
I trust that the safeguard clause included in our resolution will not have to be applied. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to start my speech today by warmly welcoming the observers from Bulgaria and Romania to the European Parliament.
On the whole, these two countries meet the political and economic criteria for membership of the European Union, and they have both made enormous progress towards democracy and a market economy over the past 16&#160;years.
The Bulgarian and Romanian Governments must accelerate reforms in these fields and take effective measures to promote good governance in order to ensure that accession can take place on 1&#160;January 2007.
No country has ever been entirely ready for membership, and the EU cannot make demands of Bulgaria and Romania that it did not make of the 10&#160;Central and Eastern European countries two years ago.
The Romanian and Bulgarian Governments must now step up their efforts to tackle the problems they currently face.
First, regarding the findings on political criteria, in my opinion the report should give necessary public administration reform, prosecution of high-level corruption and the fight against trafficking in human beings a lower profile.
All the members of the public in this Chamber observing the debate must believe that Bulgaria and Romania are countries totally based on corruption, which is obviously not true.
In my opinion we should do something about our European public administration reform and almost legendary EU red tape.
The part of the report concerning economic criteria is exceptionally sensitive.
In my opinion, that is a message for the citizens here in the visitors’ gallery: the European Union does not have the keys to Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the valuable report submitted by the Commission gives an objective and realistic picture of the situation in the two countries.
It is a fact that Bulgaria and Romania have made significant efforts, since the last Commission report, towards the integration and full application of the .
Amnesty International has already pointed out certain problems with the protection of human rights, just as the Commission report has pointed out serious shortcomings in combating corruption, in reorganising the public administration, in modernising the judicial system, in combating piracy and infringements of industrial property rules, in integrating the , in farming as regards plant health protection and the protection of animal health, in controlling the external borders, in state aid in the steel industry, in the environment and in nuclear safety.
These are important shortcomings which not only affect the progress of the two countries towards their accession, but also affect neighbouring countries and the Member States of the European Union.
Issues such as the protection of the health of animals, plant health protection, the environment, nuclear safety, state aid and tax, insurance and labour dumping also cause serious economic and social problems in the Member States of the European Union.
I believe that it is in the interests of the European Union and the peoples of the two countries to remain firm in defending the strategy of enlargement and to make every possible effort to complete the procedure of the timely integration of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union.
However, the message must be clear.
The accession procedure will proceed without discounts, but also without new terms and with the constant objective of the full integration and application of European principles and the .
It is the responsibility of the Council to adopt the proposals of the European Parliament on the 2006 budget. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his extensive introduction, which gives a balanced picture of the progress that has been made in a number of areas since we last considered them, yet also of the various problems that remain.
Needless to say, the judiciary has its own role to play in this, but the government should make every effort to show the first emphatic signs of change as a matter of urgency.
The third point has to do with food safety and genetic modification, and my Dutch fellow Member, Mr Lagendijk, has discussed it in detail.
The fourth point may seem less significant on the surface, namely the position in hospitals of people suffering from mental illness and the situation in orphanages.
Both in his speech and in his documents, the Commissioner has spoken in no uncertain terms.
We should also check whether, after a possible accession, certain chapters should be put on hold if the level of implementation is inadequate; the Council will need to look into this in detail and it is unfortunate that the Council is not present here.
We are not against Romania; it is not a yellow card, but rather a push for further reforms, a push for more freedom for the Romanian people and guaranteeing our values as Europe, to which we must very definitely hold fast during each enlargement round if we want to keep our credibility intact. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I too should like to start by welcoming the observers from Romania and Bulgaria to the European Parliament.
The Czech Social Democrat Party, on behalf of which I am speaking, has always backed the accession of these two countries to the European Union, and one need look no further than the votes held in this House for proof of this.
I believe the Commission report that we are debating here today to be extremely well-balanced, and I should like to thank the Commission for having drafted it.
It gives details of the progress that both countries have made in the fields of human rights, civil liberties and the political system, without of course forgetting the unquestionable progress they have made in economic terms.
At the same time, however, it also highlights the problems that are still faced by both Romania and Bulgaria.
Previous speakers have already mentioned many of these problems, which include corruption, food safety and other agricultural issues, border protection and public administration.
The latter problem obviously also involves the capacity of these countries to absorb EU funds, to administer such funds in a democratic and transparent manner and to monitor their expenditure.
I am quite sure that it is still feasible for both Romania and Bulgaria to join the EU in January 2007, but there is one point I should like to stress, and I hope that the observers will take my recommendation, which is based on my experience of the Czech Republic’s accession to the EU, back with them to their own countries.
I believe that if the two countries are to succeed in joining the EU, cooperation must be established there between all European political parties, irrespective of whether they form part of ruling coalitions or are in opposition, and of whether they represent social democratic, liberal or conservative views.
If such cooperation can be achieved and efforts are made in this direction, then I am sure that in six&#160;months’ time, when this House holds a debate on the final report, we will come to the conclusion that it will be possible for the two countries to join in January&#160;2007. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the speakers before me talked about what Romania and Bulgaria had promised prior to the closure of the accession negotiations, and what they have actually delivered on their promises.
This is the directive initiated by the Commission following the mine disaster involving cyanide in Romania in 2000.
The disaster resulted in serious drinking water contamination and environmental pollution in Romania, the Ukraine, Slovakia and Hungary.
Neither the injured parties, nor nature have received any damage compensation, in Hungary or in the other countries affected.
One of the reasons why I support the EU membership of Romania is because membership would ensure that Romania is bound by EU regulations, and we would be able to enforce their implementation.
Environmental protection, prevention of damage or the settlement of any damages caused is a basic right and obligation in civilised European countries.
This is not happening in Romania yet.
This is the fault of Europe, for failing to clarify the qualitative criteria in an objective, reliable and functional manner, for failing to lay down the political geography, its political limits, and for failing to define the dialectic ratio between deepening and enlarging.
The remarks in the report about the state of accession readiness of the two countries presented today by the Commission are also correct.
Under no circumstances must it be the Union that disappoints the citizens of the two countries.
According to the Commission, the political criteria have been met; I do not believe that they have been in every respect.
The law on minorities, to which reference is made in the Commission’s report, was yesterday voted down in the Senate, as Mr Duka-Zólyomi has already said.
These rules in relation to minorities were, in practical terms, absolute minimum requirements, and even they were rejected.
I have to tell Commissioner Rehn that, although I take a very favourable view of the large amount of space devoted to the Roma in the report, I do believe that the one and a half million Hungarians in Romania would have merited at least as much attention in it, and that it would have been better if their situation had been considered in rather more detail.
What this means is that the education system is keeping an ethnic group, and one comprising more people than some Member States of the European Union, at the bottom of the pile.
Let me conclude by saying that this House, in the Moscovici report, called for better protection for minorities.
We therefore need, ‘while maintaining the principles of subsidiarity and self-government, to ensure the protection of the Hungarian minority’.
The Commission report refers to the progress made in both these countries; and a great deal of progress has been made.
At the same time, however, it notes that delays have emerged in certain sectors.
The battle against corruption, the reorganisation of the judicial system and guarding the borders are some of the problems which need to be resolved more quickly.
Particular attention also needs to be given to respect for human rights and minority rights, while the situation in the orphanages and psychiatric hospitals in Romania is far from satisfactory.
We are closely monitoring the reports by the competent bodies and hope that the necessary legislative reforms will be made more quickly.
We also hope that Bulgaria will keep the promises it has made, especially about the nuclear power station in Kozloduy.
I trust that these weaknesses will be rectified over the next 14 months, so that we can welcome these two countries as new members of the European Union on 1 January 2007 with open arms. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I thank the Commission for its report.
It is of course in our interest that Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia should become Member States of the European Union before the end of the life of this Parliament, that is to say before the 2009 European elections, but whether it is to happen half a year earlier or later strikes me as less important than the actual implementation of that which constitutes the .
Over the coming months, the Commission, Parliament and the Council will be obliged to join with our Romanian and Bulgarian friends in observing how things actually develop in those countries, and passing judgment after they have done so, and not on the basis of this or that sentiment or resentment.
The second important issue has to do with the Copenhagen criteria, which were devised expressly for the last round of enlargement and are supplementary to the .
We must not allow them to be softened up, for if they are, they will have a detrimental and dangerous effect on future enlargements.
My third and final point is that, although we should, of course, recognise the accession of Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia as an important step, we should, once the deed is done, stop conferring candidate country status willy-nilly.
Unfortunately, I cannot answer all the numerous questions that have been put in connection with this matter.
This is directly linked to the fight against corruption and organised crime.
These reforms must therefore take absolute priority, be the first priority, not least because the influence they have will extend to all areas of life and society, whether it is a matter of access to health services or the corporate business environment.
I would like generally to stress the importance of implementation with regard to legal systems as well as other areas.
The most challenging questions in the area of Community policy are agriculture and the treatment of animal diseases.
Both countries need to achieve standards that guarantee food safety throughout the EU.
Inspections at external borders also need to be improved.
The Commission will be following this closely, and I can assure you that the situation will be under control.
The monitoring mechanism that we adopted in its improved form a year ago is yielding results.
A good example is the reform of the legal system referred to and competition and state subsidy policy in Romania.
Before the report is drafted in April or May, the Commission will undertake tours of inspection with experts from the Member States to assess the most worrying areas of dissatisfaction.
In conclusion, I would like to say that the best service we could do Bulgaria and Romania and the citizens of these countries is to keep to the terms of accession.
Accordingly, these reports will point out not only the progress that has been achieved but, first and foremost, the flaws that are still apparent, thus ensuring that these countries and their governments receive support for their reform policies.
Since the regulation entered into force on 17 February 2005, the Commission has been watching closely to ensure that it is being enforced by the Member States and has been monitoring the airlines to check that they are enforcing it.
In order to ensure that the regulation is being enforced uniformly in all parts of Europe, the European Commission has started infringement procedures against several Member States that have not yet taken the necessary steps to set the penalties to be imposed on airlines if they do not comply with the legislation in force.
Furthermore, on the basis of the complaints that it regularly receives, the Commission has noticed certain practical difficulties in effectively implementing the regulation and in monitoring its enforcement by the Member States.
In this context, the Commission is currently working with the national authorities in order to arrive at a harmonised interpretation of the role that these bodies have to fulfil in terms of monitoring, and dealing with, complaints. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, surely the problem with this legislation lies in the fact that it depends to a large extent on the information given to passengers, and the problem arises when there is nobody to give passengers any information.
Consequently, we are going to look carefully with the national authorities at the practical conditions in which these complaints are dealt with.
Thank you, Mrs&#160;McAvan, for having pointed out to us this one example, among others.
It strengthens my determination to see this regulation enforced. &#160;&#160; – I welcome the Commissioner's reply.
This proves that there is still work to be done, but I assure you, Mr&#160;Corbett, that I personally am paying a great deal of attention to this matter. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are airlines that make it a point of principle to set out to be taken to court.
The Commission is strongly committed to carrying out this assessment with great attention in order to protect European consumers against the risk of reduced competition and unjustified price increases.
The Commission would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that it is currently carrying out phase&#160;II in-depth investigations into the E.ON/MOL merger in Hungary and the DONG/E2 merger in Denmark. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, I should like to thank you, first and foremost, for reiterating those principles, which are key principles.
The fact is that the Commission’s legal inquiry into the Gas Natural/Endesa merger could – although I do not think it will – find that that this merger does not have a Community dimension and that it would in turn have to be assessed by a national competition authority, under the auspices of the government concerned.
As soon as that information is available, I promise that you will be informed. &#160;&#160; Mr Masip Hidalgo, which point of order do you wish to raise now? &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I simply want to ask the Commissioner about this same issue again. &#160;&#160; That, unfortunately, is not possible.
The rules specify that there is always one questioner and that two other Members can put supplementary questions.
That is the situation today.
The Commission is very concerned about the sharp escalation in oil prices over the last two years.
The Commission is also planning a proposal to implement an EU-coordinated system for security oil stocks.
The first question is the extent to which there is a binding obligation for the Member States to collect waste by category.
The directive on hazardous waste bans the mixing of different categories of hazardous waste and the mixing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
In addition, the Member States can take additional measures in accordance with their national policies.
The lady Member also asked a very important question about heightening awareness; in other words, the extent to which heightening awareness and publicity help to deal with the problem.
I should also like to say that the 'polluter pays' principle must be applied as a preventive measure in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
In addition, it is the responsibility of the Member States to take the necessary measures to comply with Community legislation in the waste sector.
Then there was a question about funding.
The European Union funds the combating of waste; this is, in fact, one of the priorities of the Cohesion Fund.
This funding may be provided through the European Regional Development Fund and through the Cohesion Fund and of course it concerns the disadvantaged areas and less wealthy countries of the European Union, which are entitled to the corresponding funds in order to apply the in the environmental sector.
This is a particularly important strategy which is horizontal and holistic, which deals with the problem of waste as a whole and, of course, will provide answers to many of the problems which exist and which, due to disputes, often lead to the courts.
Maybe you could answer this question.
This is a very important directive that aims at collecting in the best possible way the waste from electrical and electronic equipment, either for partial re-use, recycling or safe disposal.
This had a huge impact on waste management in Ireland.
The Commission has drawn the attention of the United Kingdom authorities to these concerns in a letter of formal notice issued under Article 226 of the European Community Treaty, which was sent in March 2005.
The letter of formal notice stressed the need for Member States to ensure the adequacy of their collecting and treatment systems under the Council Directive concerning urban waste water treatment.
The Commission is unable to comment on the legal advice given by the UK Department for Environment referred to by the honourable Member, as it was not aware that such advice existed or that access to it had been refused. &#160;&#160; – The last comment was very interesting and one that I should like to follow up.
But there is a problem and we have therefore started infringement proceedings against the United Kingdom.
In December we will see whether we should proceed with the reasoned opinion in order to persuade the United Kingdom authorities to take the appropriate measures to carry out the infrastructure works necessary in order to treat the water in an acceptable way.
The Psyttalia station has been operating fully since December 2004 and takes care of third-level treatment of urban sewage discharged into the sensitive area of the Saronic Gulf.
In October 2002, the Commission instituted infringement proceedings against Greece in accordance with Article 226 of the Treaty, on the basis of the fact that the Greek authorities had not made provision for the disposal of the sewage sludge in a manner which was compatible with Community environmental legislation.
The infringement proceedings brought about results, in that in August 2003 the Greek authorities finally decided to construct a drying unit on the island of Psyttalia, at which the sludge would be converted to solid matter of adequate calorific value for subsequent incineration in suitable installations.
It should be emphasised that, in December 2004, the Commission decided to cofinance the project within the framework of the Cohesion Fund.
However, despite all these positive developments, there is still the problem of the management of the sewage sludge already stored on the island and of the sewage sludge which will be produced on a daily basis until the proposed drying unit is commissioned.
However, this solution presents certain environmental problems: possible contamination of the waters due to the discharge of sewage sludge into the sea, repercussions due to emissions from the transportation of waste over a distance of 21 kilometres through a densely populated area and danger of contamination due to spillage of waste during transportation.
The Commission is evaluating the temporary solution proposed by the Greek authorities, a sort of soilification procedure, in conjunction with the operation of the sanitary landfill site at Ano Liosia and, if necessary, it will not, of course, hesitate to institute judicial proceedings against Greece, because this is required not only by Community legislation, but also by the need to protect citizens' health and the environment.
I assume that, if that is what he says, he has something in mind and, of course, a minister and a government do not make this sort of promise unless they have something specific; in other words, a planned method of disposing of the sewage sludge during the period up to 2007 when the drying unit on the island of Psyttalia will be finished.
The Community bureaucracy, the Commission bureaucracy should indicate waste management standards in a strict and binding manner.
In particular for Greece and for me, what I can say is that I am neither more nor less strict with the country of which I am a national.
I try to be objective and to do what is needed in order to protect the health of the citizens in the European Union and, of course, in Greece, and to protect the ecosystems and the environment.
We believe that dialogue with Israel within the framework of the political arrangements set out, on the one hand, in the association agreement and, on the other hand, in the European Neighbourhood Policy is the most effective way to impress upon the national authorities the Union’s concerns regarding respect for human rights and international law.
In this critical period following Israel’s disengagement from Gaza and parts of the West Bank that we and the whole international community wholeheartedly welcome, the Union has agreed to help provide very strong support for the reconstruction of the Palestinian infrastructure and institutions and to promote economic reform and governance.
The Commission remains committed to that end. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, thank you for your response.
I was in Washington last week, along with President Barroso.
We have also said in a communication that we are even ready to double the means that we have been giving to the Palestinians this year, if both parties make progress and other donors participate. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, your comments about the activities of the Quartet and the offer to increase aid to Palestine are all very welcome.
Recently, a young Swedish woman who travelled to Israel was subjected to very violent treatment.
I am therefore very happy to say that this has now been included in our Neighbourhood Policy.
This was done last June and since then we have been preparing proposals for draft action plans with each of the three countries concerned.
The partner countries themselves are developing their own priorities for such action plans.
An EU troika is visiting the region as we speak, from 24 to 28 October, and its assessment will indeed be very helpful as we start our discussions.
Further priorities under the ENP include regional cooperation and conflict settlement.
The EC countries will, in the meantime, provide substantial support to the partner countries of the South Caucasus region and, by way of example, I could cite our deep involvement in the reform of the judiciary in Azerbaijan and Georgia, our support for institutional, legal and administrative reform in Armenia, or our rehabilitation efforts in those parts of Georgia especially affected by frozen conflicts, such as South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
We also hope to encourage greater cooperation between and with the countries bordering the Caspian Sea.
I would like to put a supplementary question: you have already referred to one of the two problems specific to the region, namely energy and the minorities, which brings in its train expulsion, separation and much else.
I am unable to say whether my fellow-Commissioner Mr Piebalgs is planning another conference in the immediate future, but I can say that we are keeping a very close eye on developments, which are, of course, becoming more and more important.
I myself chaired the OSCE in the year 2000, and took these matters very seriously.
What that means is that the neighbourhood policy quite deliberately refrains from addressing the issue of membership of the European Union.
That is never, of course, generally prejudicial to future developments, but it is quite essential that Georgia, and its two neighbours Armenia and Azerbaijan as well, should now do everything in their power to push through reforms on the domestic front.
That is quite essential, and much that will bring them closer to the European Union still remains to be done.
We regard these countries as future important friends, and will, to some degree, be prepared – provided that they carry out these reforms – to include them in the internal market and to open up options for them in the spheres of energy, transport and education policy.
We are devoting a great deal of attention to trying to resolve these issues.
I have also met civil society representatives in Tunisia, notably the associations that are encountering difficulties in receiving support from the European Union, the Tunisian League of Human Rights and the Association of Women for Research and Development.
I have also made it clear that the problems with the implementation of our civil society and governance projects will have very negative consequences for our future financial cooperation with Tunisia.
I hope that these talks will have an effect and that we will be able to unblock the projects very soon.
It is not just a case of my staff constantly having dealt with these issues and addressed these questions at every level; we have also made it perfectly clear that, if these projects are blocked and cannot be completed shortly, then there will be no funding for them.
That means that there very definitely are conditions attached. &#160;&#160; As the speaking time allotted to this subject is exhausted, Questions Nos 64 to 72 will be answered in writing(3).
The agreement follows the new partnership format which the Community has developed for relations with third countries in the field of fisheries.
This new approach includes, among others, a clear commitment from the Commission side to promote the general principles of conservation and sustainable management of fishery resources.
The new agreement paves the way for a permanent policy dialogue on fisheries between the European Community and Morocco and envisages initiatives and measures in support of responsible fisheries policy.
The previous fisheries agreement with Morocco, which covered the period 1995-99, did indeed provide for fishing possibilities for sponge fishing.
Unfortunately, however, at this stage, sponge fishing cannot be covered in the agreement.
However, were a favourable scientific assessment of sponge stocks to become available in the future, the Commission could propose to the Moroccan side the inclusion of this type of fishing in the agreement.
This inclusion could take the form of a decision of the joint committee that is provided for in Article 10 of the agreement.
Having said that, I wish to emphasise that both the Community and Morocco have agreed to the possibility of carrying out certain experimental fisheries under Article 5 of the Protocol.
Experimental campaigns could facilitate the preparation of a scientific assessment of sponge resources in the Moroccan fishing zone. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, your reply, as it comes from a person with a great deal of sensitivity, partially satisfies me.
I will see to it that the experimental fisheries and scientific evaluation are carried out as early as possible. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, if an honourable colleague has been unfortunately delayed and is not in the Chamber for his or her question, but then arrives three questions later – there are, after all, very few colleagues present – would you, in your personal capacity, please take question number 72? &#160;&#160; I cannot do that, as we have strict rules on Question Time and each Commissioner is allotted 20 minutes.
I would have been quite happy to take the honourable Member’s question to which you refer, were it not for the fact that it is intended for Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, who is no longer here, and so your question will be one of those answered in writing.
But other aspects fall outside the direct competence of the common fisheries policy.
Another important aspect of these fisheries is that they are deeply rooted in the tradition of coastal communities of fishermen and their consequent social importance.
Member States with sea salmon fisheries have developed management strategies to address that difficult problem.
The Commission has undertaken to review the situation and examine the success of these management strategies and subsequently report to the Council and to Parliament.
With regard to the reference made by the honourable Member to the use of driftnets, the Commission should clarify that the salmon driftnet fishery within the Irish 12-mile limit is not covered by the 1998 ban on the use of driftnets for highly migratory species such as tuna.
The Commission would also add that the question at stake refers to stock management issues but does not directly relate to the type of gear concerned.
It should therefore not be confused with the 1998 prohibition on the use of driftnets because of cetacean by-catch and which, in the Atlantic area of interest, applies only to the catching of tuna and some tuna-like species.
We will be looking at the results of this study and then coming to Parliament and the Council with our own proposals in order to see to it that there is proper management of these fisheries. &#160;&#160; – I come from Scotland.
We are worried about the future of salmon stocks.
With driftnets that are much smaller in size and where there is no risk of cetacean by-catches, the Commission’s position is more open.
If, on the basis of scientific study, it can be concluded that driftnets do not create undue pressures on the sustainability of salmon or any other fish stocks and there is no risk of by-catches of cetaceans, then we take a more open approach.
That is why, because of the reports and criticism in Ireland, we have commissioned the study to see what the situation is and how the management of the stock is proceeding.
There could be other types of net that are not classified as driftnets but that, in particular circumstances, could have an even more negative impact on the sustainability of fisheries.
For a number of years, the Commission has monitored Member States closely to ensure they are taking the necessary measures for proper control and enforcement of the driftnet prohibition.
The Commission has already launched infringement proceedings against these Member States.
In any case, I can confirm that the Commission will take all necessary steps in accordance with the rules of the EC Treaty and of the Common Fisheries Policy to ensure that Member States comply with the Community legislation prohibiting driftnets. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his sincerity.
It has come to light this summer that, of 37 vessels found with driftnets prohibited by ecological organisations, 18 had already received subsidies for their restructuring.
I do not believe that this problem can be left solely in the hands of the Member States.
I believe that the Commission must act and it has done so in relation to certain States, but that is clearly insufficient.
Unfortunately, the Council did not adopt this regulation last September.
Directive 98/44/EC establishes well-balanced principles for the protection of biotechnological inventions through patents.
Let me recall that the purpose of the directive is to establish the legal framework for granting patents, which covers the results of research.
The Commission will continue to follow the application of the directive in practice very carefully, with due regard to ethical, moral and cultural considerations, and will not fail to inform the European Parliament, as it has so far done, in the framework of the evaluation reports envisaged in the directive.
In terms of the particular areas identified by Parliament in the motion for a resolution, I make the following remarks.
In conclusion, I would like to recall that biotechnology has enormous potential for good, particularly in medical fields, and patent protection is of great importance to key industrial sectors, which invest heavily in research and development costs.
There are several front lines, and there are some who are generally opposed to biotechnology.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not among them.
Biotechnology is necessary; it must be used to solve many of our problems.
The PPE-DE Group considers that stance, too, quite wrong.
Patents constitute an incentive for innovation, and designing these properly helps us make headway.
This is the argument I have used to defend the Directive against criticism from many quarters again and again in recent years.
Parliament’s Legal Service has informed us that Parliament itself cannot raise an objection, but others can, and should, in order to resolve this issue.
The Directive must be applied, and therefore so, too, must Article 6(2).
This Article states that techniques involving the destruction of human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes are unpatentable.
According to the current state of the art, human embryonic stem cells cannot be produced without destroying human embryos.
Regardless of whether or not one considers this ethically acceptable, my view and that of the PPE-DE Group is that it follows that human embryonic stem cells cannot be patented.
These only relate to experiments in mice, however, and it took almost 20 years for research on embryonic stem cells of mice to progress to humans.
The 1998 invention by Thomson of methods for producing human embryonic stem cells came almost 20 years later than a similar invention with regard to mice.
I would ask the Commissioner once more to examine the matter carefully.
I had not planned to criticise the Commission this evening, but the Commissioner is guilty of a misinterpretation.
On behalf of my group, I can state that we agree with the conclusions of this report both on the issue of the area of application – the scope of patents – and on the distinction drawn between the patentability of totipotent and pluripotent stem cells, and that we can also support the report’s proposals on how to proceed.
For we, too, want to promote the development of biotechnology and are convinced that patents play a very important part in this.
At the same time, however, I believe that the present written report by the Commission does not go far enough, and that there are more unresolved problems with the application of our Biotechnology Patents Directive than the Commission actually addresses in its report.
I believe that we all wanted to have an exchange of views with you tonight, but to be bounced into a resolution was perhaps not the way to answer a considered report.
It seems to me that some colleagues would wish to revisit the directive by way of a resolution concocted over 24 hours.
The Patent Directive clearly excludes the patenting of germ line cells.
Even sex-selection techniques are prohibited in almost all Member States.
Neither Parliament nor the Commission can stand by and do nothing while patents are granted for human breeding.
The European Union needs to take up a clear position.
The Commission is burying its head in the sand in the face of the inconsistencies and errors in the text of the Directive.
In its report and also here today, the Commission has unambiguously admitted that the harmonisation of patent law on biotechnology is no longer a given, as some Member States impose very clear limits on the multifunctionality of genes.
We would call on the Commission to advance beyond mere monitoring and finally take some action. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I very much welcome the fact that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe are prepared to give more consideration to patents.
That is exactly what we have done, and we have come to the conclusion that it is our firm belief that the human body and all of its parts are not patentable, since their functioning is not a human invention, but rather a discovery, and, as such, not patentable.
This applies just as much to embryos, stem cells, germ cells and the genome, on which we cannot claim right of ownership.
Although, in the second 16C report, the Commission is right to state that the totipotent stem cells are not patentable, it remains vague about the patentability of pluripotent stem cells.
The patent that has fuelled this debate concerns human gametes.
The fact that this patent has been granted flies in the face of the principle that the human body and the parts thereof are not patentable.
Parliament should take its monitoring task seriously.
I refer to cloning of any kind, including therapeutic cloning and all research into human engineering or that resulting in the destruction of embryos.
My reason for opposing such research is that I regard it as nothing other than the destruction of a human being, and this view is shared by a great many Members of this House.
Quite apart from moral considerations, there are at least three reasons why we should do so.
The first of these is common human decency.
The second is the principle of subsidiarity, since controversial issues should be settled by individual Member States within their own borders.
The third is the fact that pushing through certain decisions could arouse much opposition in the various Member States, and, as a direct result of this, help fuel Euroscepticism.
We should not consent to such a thing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe that the Commission is fulfilling its duty of applying the Community Directive and I must therefore congratulate Mr McCreevy on his explanation and on the way in which he has presented the issue to us.
I agree with Mrs Wallis that it was not the time to adopt a resolution on such a complicated issue, as this discussion illustrates, in which a series of data are being provided.
There are millions of people currently suffering from degenerative diseases as a result of a lack of progress in this area.
I hope that we can carry on studying this issue more calmly, but always thinking of the possibilities opening up for the future of human research. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mrs&#160;Wallis that such a sensitive subject should probably have been examined more thoroughly.
Nevertheless, we are also here this evening to give the Commissioner our views.
We believe patents are important, but it must be made clear that legal and economic protection does not mean that everything is patentable.
It is important to understand that clear limits are also needed, especially in areas where the aim is to prevent infringements, as is happening with embryonic stem cells for the production of human parts and forms of cloning that are in fact banned under the directive.
To conclude, I hope we will have the opportunity to examine these topics in greater depth, in the knowledge that there are lines in this field that I believe must not be crossed, such as the boundaries of human dignity. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, research into the use of stem cells to treat various diseases is currently in vogue.
No problems are posed in terms of the rejection of such cells, since a patient’s own cells are not carcinogenic and do not cause genetic mutations.
Professor&#160;Scolding is not the only one who knows about all these research findings, and in fact all experts in this field are familiar with them.
The question we should therefore be asking is why so much money is spent on research into embryonic stem cells, and so little on research into adult stem cells.
Such are the consequences of patents on cells. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions do not regulate in detail all the problems associated with the development of genetic engineering and biotechnology.
In July&#160;2005, the Commission presented a second report to the Council and Parliament on the development and implications of patent law in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering.
I believe that it would be premature to adopt a position on the matter of whether patents on gene sequences and DNA sequences should be allowed according to the traditional model of patent claims, whereby a first inventor can claim an invention.
I expect the Commission to take appropriate steps to establish a clearer and more predictable legal framework for biotechnological inventions.
This framework should be informed by ethical considerations, and at the same time create a favourable climate for innovation and scientific and business development. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to say to the Commissioner that it is not good enough to come up with grand policy statements setting out our ethical position on European values if, when a clear, specific challenge to those values is brought to light, we just say timidly that it might be an infringement.
If there is any risk of human material becoming a commercial commodity, this Parliament must stand up and be counted and register a formal legal objection to this illegal trafficking in human body parts before it is too late.
This resolution is important, because there is not much time left for us to register our objection to help strike down this patent.
I therefore ask my colleagues to vote for this resolution and Mr Blokland’s amendment. &#160;&#160; To end this debate, we have received seven motions for resolutions(1) presented in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mr Bill Newton Dunn, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council framework decision on the fight against organised crime [COM(2005)0006 C6-0061/2005 2005/0003(CNS)] (A6-0277/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Newton Dunn, and also, of course, the draftsmen of the other committees that have addressed the topic of the framework decision on organised crime.
I am also convinced that, in order to fight organised crime, we have to hit those responsible where it hurts most, that is, in their pockets: measures targeting the assets of organised crime are therefore indispensable.
I am in favour of the idea of setting up a central unit in each Member State to coordinate operations against organised crime and to handle the actions involved in making positive use of the assets that should be seized from perpetrators of very serious crimes, that is to say, members of criminal organisations.
Another interesting topic in the report is informant protection.
I can tell you that the Commission intends to put forward an organic proposal on this topic as well, taking account of the excellent work that Europol is doing in this area and also of the witness protection work that the Council of Europe is developing.
The final subject, which is particularly close to the rapporteur’s heart, concerns information sharing.
It is a necessary part of our strategy for preventing and combating serious crime because, unless we have safe, reliable and above all comparable statistical data, we shall not have a very effective means of prevention that can enable us to attack crime at its roots.
I shall conclude my speech by saying that Europe certainly needs a more incisive and more coherent policy to prevent and combat organised crime, which unfortunately is expanding considerably in a great many areas, from the terrible traffic in human beings to drugs and arms trafficking. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his very positive and helpful speech.
I believe I can speak for the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs in saying that we support him in what he is doing.
There is one point that the Commissioner has not mentioned: because organised crime crosses frontiers but law enforcement is up to the individual Member States and cannot cross frontiers, the committee wants to point out – and we voted for this – that there is a pressing need to create a European Union police force.
I thank the Commissioner for talking about a centralised agency within each Member State.
We, as a committee, would like to see an asset recovery bureau set up in every one of the 25 Member States to really hit the criminals where it hurts the most.
The committee is in full support of the Commission proposal, but we want to go further and faster.
Europol is still much weaker than it should be.
We support the Commission and we would very much like the Council to move a bit faster. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the confidence of the European public in the European institutions is unfortunately waning.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, too, supports the legislative proposal.
If, in the space of two months, no settlement has been reached, we think it sensible to let Eurojust decide and exert appropriate pressure on the States to ensure that they really decide who has jurisdiction.
We must make it the norm in European investigation work on organised crime that officers from a wide variety of countries carry out investigations together, tackle crime together.
Mutual trust among police and among investigating officers is crucial in this regard, however.
That is why we have to invest in familiarisation with the various systems and in confidence building.
We must invest in confidence in these systems.
Thirdly, I should like to touch on the question of the extent to which it is appropriate to develop a common code of criminal procedure.
The public expects a fight against organised crime.
There should be no retreat in Europe, but instead a decisive campaign. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, organised crime is, in actual fact, a real scourge for our societies and our constitutional states.
International crime has networks throughout the world and it is very difficult to combat them because they are generally based outside the EU in countries in which it is difficult to enforce the law and which are plagued by corruption and destabilisation.
The European Union has Europol, a fundamental tool in the fight against organised crime.
It is unfortunate that the relationship between Europol and Interpol is not clearly defined.
It is imperative for the Member States quickly to coordinate all of their actions in order to increase their effectiveness.
The draft framework decision therefore constitutes a move towards closer cooperation but, in my opinion, this is still not enough.
Mr Newton Dunn’s report is an excellent one, but is it enough?
I would just mention two aspects that should, I feel, cause us to consider reviewing our strategy further.
That shows, in my view, that neither the Commission nor Parliament is yet ready or brave enough to cut deep and remove the cancer of organised crime from our society before it is too late. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, what is it that is happening here?
In practice, that means that what we are concerned with is purely and simply a kind of ratification process under the pressure of the difficult task of reaching agreement between 25&#160;governments, without the consultation being binding, without codecision, without Community law, without comprehensive rights of scrutiny, and without any extension of the competence of the European Court of Justice.
The report contains a number of vague legal terms, which is surely the most dangerous thing possible in such an explosive field.
Particular investigation methods are demanded, and appropriate instruments, infiltration methods and techniques proposed, without the rapporteur actually taking the trouble to clarify the problems regarding the rule of law that these vague legal terms entail.
In my view, therefore, there is no point in creating a new European police force, whereas it is appropriate to establish democratic control over the activities of Europol. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, international organised crime is at its most dangerous and its most pernicious when it is linked to terrorist groups.
In Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, we have had at work for many years one of the most sophisticated terrorist and criminal organisations of modern times, the IRA.
If they were the true democrats that they claim to be, there are two Members of this House who could shed much more light on these matters, because their party is inextricably linked with this large-scale criminality.
I refer to Sinn Féin Members Bairbre de&#160;Brún and Mary Lou McDonald who, as ever when we discuss these matters, are absent and notable for their complicit silence. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital is not fully protected by the law, given that law enforcement agencies are not allowed to act beyond the territory of jurisdiction of each Member State.
What is more, there is a lack of trust between the different police forces, which are reluctant to share information, and it is no comfort that this lack of trust is even more acute at EU level.
The absence of a common legal area has led to a number of Community initiatives intended to align national laws, to step up police and judicial cooperation, to set up joint investigation teams, to create a European arrest warrant and to encourage the exchange of information and mutual assistance.
This proposal for a framework decision is an important step, insofar as it ensures that Member States will work more closely together, and seeks to forge a common approach, through a minimum harmonisation framework covering the definition of organised crime, offences and types of offence and the establishment of common principles of determining jurisdiction.
I should like to congratulate Mr Newton Dunn on his work in committee and on his excellent proposals.
I also wish to thank Mr Frattini for accepting most of the amendments tabled by Parliament.
It should be borne in mind, however, that, in addition to legislative standards and activity, this must be reflected in practical instruments for the judicial and police authorities, which need more effective measures to pursue their activities.
In general terms, the present proposal takes a stricter, but not necessarily a more effective approach to the problem.
To conclude, we need to stamp on organised crime, but not on the basis of the recent models being promoted, such as the action plan on terrorism.
We need to combat organised crime, but not to safeguard order by dismantling the body of our individual and political freedoms. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I must say to my good friend Mr Newton Dunn that it always makes me happy when someone writes a report on a subject about which he has a fetish.
In general terms I, like my group, represented by Mr Weber, support both the approach of the Commission and that of the rapporteur.
I also like the ambitious goals of the report.
I am fully in favour of strengthening Europol and Eurojust and I shall personally encourage the Member States that have not yet done so to ratify all the Europol protocols.
I fully agree with the idea that assets seized from criminal organisations should be put to good use and utilised for social purposes.
That is an example that I believe could be exported to the other European Union Member States.
I believe that if this experiment is strengthened and if Eurojust is strengthened – as I hope it will be – we can respond to our citizens’ needs with some tangible, unified action from the European Union’s institutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is the duty of the Presidency of Parliament to uphold the honour of its Members.
It has been claimed that in this Chamber there are political exponents and representatives of institutions with links to criminal and terrorist organisations.
I consider all that to be unacceptable and believe that the Presidency of Parliament should also intervene to penalise speakers who fail to respect the honour of the European Parliament and its Members. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Catania.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Klamt, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on an EU approach to managing economic migration [COM(2004)0811 2005/2059(INI)] (A6-0286/2005). &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, although I have the floor, what we are really talking about here is the Green Paper on economic migration.
The EU is one of the safest, economically strongest regions in the world.
For this reason, we are subject to considerable pressure from migration flows; as, indeed, we shall continue to be in future.
In a European Union with largely open internal borders, immigration can and should only be regulated in a way that makes allowances for and shows a sense of responsibility towards other Member States.
It should also be made clear, however, that ultimate responsibility for access to the labour market lies with the Member States.
The Commission has compiled fundamental questions on the regulation of economic migration in a Green Paper in order to obtain an overview of opinion that is as comprehensive and reliable as possible as a basis for drafting subsequent proposals for regulations.
Parliament gave advice on this questionnaire in the form of a resolution as an own-initiative report.
Parliament has the task of working out the framework for our action in the coming years.
Only by stemming the abuse of existing regulations can we create scope for legal, managed migration.
We need a European migration policy in the form of a comprehensive, coordinated framework, within which migration regulations are to be drawn up according to reasons for moving.
The images and reports from Lampedusa, Ceuta and Melilla, Malta and Cyprus have shaken many people.
We are here to speak about all the external borders of the EU.
In this context, we need cooperation and support concepts with regard to countries of origin and transit.
We cannot even think of tackling an issue like immigration, whether legal or illegal, with emergency measures or police actions, either slamming the doors shut as if Europe were a fortress or, conversely, opening them indiscriminately, without thinking about the consequences.
The results of the Green Paper will be converted into an action plan, from which some guidelines for the European Union will emerge.
We are aware of the demographic trends that mean that labour is needed from outside the EU, but of course we also know that the Union of 25 must not forget that there are human resources – workers – available in the new Member States of the Union, who are European citizens like us.
Therefore, when rules concerning that category of workers are discussed in May 2006, I shall be one of those encouraging the old Member States, the 15, to get rid of the barriers that still stand in the way of workers from the countries that acceded to the European Union in 2004.
Of course, on this more than on any other subject, Parliament’s voice will be a voice of democracy and a crucial factor in enabling us to reach decisions on which we all agree. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like to express my particular thanks to the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for the work that they have presented here.
I believe that the report, on which we shall also be voting tomorrow, really offers an excellent basis for joint regulation of economic migration by the EU and the Member States.
I should like to emphasise clearly that it is important to us that victims of trafficking in human beings from developing countries not be criminalised, but receive all conceivable help and support.
It was particularly important to us that the women concerned, for example, be given the possibility of receiving a residence permit for the Member States in question.
In addition, the brain drain of medical personnel, particularly from developing countries in Africa, has also been insufficiently dealt with in this report. &#160;&#160; . – For centuries economic migration has played a particularly important role in the economic growth of admission countries.
It indicates that it is devoted to admission procedures for migrants from third countries, and not the movement of persons within the EU's internal market.
However, it is predicted that discussions on the results of the Green Paper will form the basis of a plan on how to react to the needs of the labour market.
The Council Directive on the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents, which enters into force in 2006, provides that long-term migrants will be able to move to another Member State or settle in it for the purposes of studying, hired employment or self-employment or may even settle without engaging in any economic activity.
This means that long-term economic migrants will be able to work and offer services across practically the entire EU internal market.
At the same time, for the new EU Member States a transition period of seven years applies to the free movement of workers.
Bearing in mind that the determination of the flow of economic migration is a matter for Member States, I propose that when they are devised, EU regulations on the admission of economic migrants should be confined to the minimum criteria for migrant admission, and should leave the Member State the right to make a final decision, all the more so because the EU does not have a common industrial policy.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to give a warm welcome to the 350 young Italians from the , who are observing our evening debates.
The phenomenon of migration has more bearing than ever on the international community and each Member State.
The report by Mrs Klamt makes an important contribution to this pressing debate.
We still do not talk a lot about the situation of immigrants in their country of origin, but we talk more and more about immigrants in order to highlight the problems they create in the countries in which they settle.
Those who ought to concern us, as political representatives, are the men and women who suffer as a result of immigration.
I am in favour of an immigration policy in Europe that fully respects the European Convention on Human Rights and of its being enforced in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
I am in favour of having the courage to distinguish between economic migration and asylum granted on humanitarian grounds, which respects the dignity of unknown persons.
I am in favour of having the political and civic courage to select economic migrants in accordance with the actual requirements of the labour market in the Member States acting as host countries.
We are all in favour of improving women’s health.
That is why we are in favour of gynaecological and obstetrical health care services and of protecting mothers and their children in order to enable all female migrants to receive the highest possible level of health care. &#160;&#160; . – I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Klamt on her report, which demonstrates a great deal of balance and common sense, qualities usually in short supply when it comes to this sensitive issue.
Their expectations of entering a new country safely, legally and with their fundamental rights completely respected are also legitimate.
For this to happen, Europe must have the capacity to receive, host, employ and integrate these people.
It must also be able to pursue a policy of development cooperation that reduces wealth imbalances between countries of origin and host countries.
What is needed is clear and coherent common European immigration policy, and effective management of migratory flows.
We are also keen to point out that immigration can be a positive factor for the European Union.
Other ideas of which we are in favour are introducing a European green card, which would make it easier for immigrants to find jobs, and granting immigrants who have lived on EU territory for at least five years the right to vote in local and European elections but not, by any means, in national elections, contrary to what Mrs&#160;Klamt said a few weeks ago.
Admittedly, we are only talking here about an own-initiative report following on from a Green Paper, but these are – and I emphasise this fact – so many altogether crucial factors which really are supported by the majority of this House and which therefore ought to be looked at more closely by the Commission, when it drafts its proposal on this matter.
I hope that he will take account of these altogether crucial factors.
Let us be totally honest and acknowledge that, until now, all of the policies solely and exclusively founded on repression have failed and that we might have to accept the need to do things differently and, in particular, increase development in immigrants’ countries of origin.
It is evident to me from what I hear said in this Chamber today, and from what the Council and the Member States, among others, have been saying for years, that we all agree that Europe has become an immigration country.
I would therefore urge both large groups in this House to endorse paragraph 15, because it actually covers both aspects very well.
There is also the Canadian model, for example, to draw on, so we can develop our own.
Turning to the right to vote, I know that it is a sensitive issue, but it forms an essential part of actual immigration.
Surely it is indispensable to any serious discussion about full participation in social, economic and political life.
Finally, all European citizens should of course get freedom of movement right now, and, while I am on that subject, I should like to congratulate Commissioner Frattini, who I clearly heard indicate his intention of supporting this initiative. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I want to talk specifically about economic migration, which covers a whole range of people from company directors to cleaners.
It is true that the economic situation in some countries of origin may well push people to move, which raises questions about our external policies, our trade policies.
The green card and the job seeker’s visa, which we talked about last time we discussed this, are very good ways forward, as would be assistance for the implementation of existing labour standards by our governments. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, although I hold Mrs&#160;Klamt in high regard, I am actually very glad that most Members do not share her views on this subject.
I am also pleased at the opinions expressed by the Committee on Development and the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the fact that the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs has substantially changed the approach proposed by Mrs&#160;Klamt in her report.
Similarly, I am delighted at the fact that Commissioner Frattini has clearly set out a position supporting the way in which the Committee on Civil Liberties has acted on the report in question.
The nub of the question is this: will these 20 million immigrants be regular workers or not?
In my view, since the measures used so far to curb illegal immigration over the years have driven it underground, a residence permit for jobseekers and the right to vote are the best way to ensure that these 20 million workers will work in Europe legally. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, in Pope John Paul&#160;II’s encyclical on human work, ‘Laborem exercens’, he said that everyone has the right to look for work wherever such work can be found and wherever pay is higher.
I look forward to the day when we will have a common immigration policy, but is the European Union currently ready to accept immigrants from all over the world?
Europe’s labour market is still not open to its new citizens, and the new Member States that will join the EU in the near future have high levels of unemployment.
Experience has taught us that immigrants from non-Christian countries integrate poorly into Europe, despite the best efforts of the countries receiving them.
This begs the question of whether it would not be preferable to hire workers from Eastern Europe to fill any vacancies, and to provide needy countries in the south with aid that is both effective and much more generous than to date.
At the same time, cooperation should be established with such countries within their own borders. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must congratulate and thank Mrs Klamt for all of the work she has put in on this report on managing economic migration.
No State can take such decisions alone.
Working together, we must try to establish partnerships with countries of origin and transit in order to manage migratory flows and the acceptance of migrants.
The real problem is the difference between our continent and the countries of origin in terms of development and living standards.
The second crucial point is that common measures must be put in place regarding legal immigration.
There is a whole raft of reasons why migrants resort to leaving their country of origin, but they do so mainly for economic and social reasons.
The first principle is a comprehensive approach to the management of migratory flows, so as to find a balance between humanitarian and economic admission and the fight against illegal immigration.
Mr&#160;Mauro, your rapporteur, put in a great deal of effort on this text and I am grateful to him for that.
As long ago as 2001, the Commission’s White Paper on the common transport policy sounded alarm bells regarding delays in the completion of the trans-European network (TEN).
At the current rate of investment, it would take a further 20 years to complete the whole TEN, as revised in 2004.
We must not underplay the role that Europe should play in developing these networks.
Most importantly, we can produce a leverage effect, whereby we encourage Member States to invest in projects with significant European added value, such as cross-border projects, and to work more closely together.
I should like to thank Parliament for lending its backing to the figure of EUR&#160;20&#160;billion that we proposed in the context of the financial perspective.
The financial requirements of the 30 priority projects identified by Parliament and the Council in 2004 alone account for EUR&#160;225&#160;billion, the lion’s share of which – some EUR&#160;140&#160;billion – falls in the period 2007 to 2013.
The funding applications that the Commission has received since 2001 demonstrate that the existing mature projects could absorb the currently available budget four times over.
With regard to the energy field, the proposed budget increase is aimed, primarily, at addressing the needs of the ten new Member States.
I am counting on Parliament not to cut the trans-European Energy network’s budget from EUR&#160;340&#160;million, as the report proposes, to a lower amount than was made available for 2000-2006.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond simple budgetary considerations, there are four additional objectives in the proposal before us this evening.
The Commission is proposing that precedence be given to the most environmentally friendly means of transport, such as rail transport, in particular freight, and that emphasis be placed on safety and security.
The first such group is the priority projects, among which special attention will be paid to those projects which contribute to the integration of the internal market in an enlarged Community, such as cross-border sections, and those which make a major contribution towards reducing imbalances between methods of transport.
The proposal on which Mr&#160;Mauro worked was an ambitious project aimed at improving the trans-European network.
An appropriation of this nature for 2006 would have facilitated a smoother transition to the new financial perspective period.
This, Mr President, is why I feel that this proposal for a regulation is highly significant and why I shall be listening with interest to the various comments from the Members of Parliament who wish to speak on the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Commissioner Barrot has already pointed out, trans-European networks are without doubt a decisive factor for achieving the aims set out in the Lisbon Agenda for economic development and employment in the European Union.
The huge resources needed and the time frames involved have both prevented the use of financial instruments also involving private capital and made national governments unwilling to commit themselves to projects of cross-border importance.
I also welcome the new proposal for a regulation drawn up by the Commission, which not only sets out the new financial framework but also specifies the four criteria already mentioned for disbursing aid.
Lastly, with regard to the energy sector, I do not think we can talk about financial support just for project studies, because more often than not they are left to gather dust and, in my view, are another waste of resources.
Thus I believe that the development of the European energy market should be supported through infrastructure funding as well, since the energy problem is one of the factors that limits economic growth in the European Union.
We all need infrastructure, and therefore we can all experience the European added value in this field.
The report by Mr&#160;Mauro treads remarkable new paths in some areas.
Democracy is not something one can pick and choose, but rather a fundamental procedure.
The recovery of transport funds in the event of irregularities or failure to complete the project within 10&#160;years is an innovative request, and we expect the Commission to enable its implementation, because this is important to us. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, first of all, on behalf of my group, I should like to offer my thanks and sincere congratulations to Mr&#160;Mauro for his report.
He has the broad support of our group.
Until 1&#160;May&#160;2004, the trans-European transport network of the 15&#160;EU Member States consisted of 75&#160;200 kilometres of roads and 78&#160;000 kilometres of railways.
After 1&#160;May&#160;2004, this was extended by 14&#160;500 kilometres of roads and 16&#160;000 kilometres of railways.
The report by Mr&#160;Böge on the financial perspective subscribes to this in full.
In contrast to many of the Heads of State or Government, we are declaring our support for what was agreed in Lisbon.
For this reason, we shall gladly support the Mauro report when it comes to the vote. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I take a rather more critical view.
There is therefore only one question on the agenda: is there really the will to promote a determined policy of developing rail freight in Europe?
In my opinion, this includes the shortest transport link between Scandinavia and southern Europe, which runs from Sweden through my own country, Poland, via Szczecin, Wrocław, Bratislava and Vienna.
There is a lot of potential for developing new transport in Europe, and we should start thinking now about our future areas of investment. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the granting of financial aid in the field of the trans-European transport and energy networks is urgently needed, and the approach it takes is very much on the right lines.
None of the solutions put forward in either the proposal or the Mauro report could be called controversial.
At the same time, however, it is hard to view the regulation in isolation from the list of priority projects included with the proposed measures.
As Commissioner&#160;Barrot has said, the European Union gave preference to a solution that provides added value and ensures security of supply to certain EU Member States.
At the same time, however, this solution disrupts and actually threatens the security of supply to other Member States, namely the new Member States such as Poland and the Baltic States.
Furthermore, the project has certain negative political implications.
Current needs far exceed the financial resources available, particularly in the new Member States.
One of the key challenges we face is therefore to ensure that these resources are spent sensibly.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for his work on the report. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, this would appear to be a popular theme among the Polish Members of the House, and I shall continue the trend.
The Commission’s new principles governing the granting of financial aid for the trans-European transport networks are a prime example of price dumping.
Put briefly, these interests boil down to two key issues.
The second is the need to link the transport systems of the 15&#160;old Member States to those of the 10&#160;new Member States.
As well as finding solutions to the problem of how to link their transport systems to those in Western Europe, these countries are confronted with the challenge of constructing the very systems themselves.
Of course, the effectiveness of the new financial instrument in the old Member States will also be limited if cuts to the total funding available are made in the budget, and indeed this issue has already been touched upon several times today.
Such cuts would be absolutely disastrous, and would render a valuable initiative by the Commission completely meaningless. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Mauro, as well as Mr&#160;Bösch, who has been of great assistance to us in this work.
I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and I would like to say that this regulation is long awaited.
I therefore believe that it is extremely important that we pursue the budgetary battle to its end, because otherwise we will suffer a very considerable loss of credibility, which would be a very great disappointment for all of the regions of Europe.
Furthermore, it seems to me that the spending adjustment variable is what are being called projects of common interest, which are not priority projects.
The regulation is deceptive: it says that it funds everything, not just priority projects, but also projects of common interest within countries.
Here I am also thinking of the Messina Bridge: I find it hard to understand why this project should be given parity of treatment with cross-border projects.
Mr President, I should like to welcome the proposal from the Commission.
The European Community can contribute to this process by encouraging cooperation, promoting models of best practice and providing financial assistance.
That will have practical benefits for my constituency in terms of networks across the island of Ireland and beyond, as I am sure will be the case for many other constituencies.
I thank Mr&#160;Mauro and Mr Barrot for the excellent work that has been done and for the important content of the proposal.
I would like once again to thank Mr&#160;Mauro, as well as the members of the Committee on Budgets, of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for supporting the Commission’s proposal.
This is entirely logical, since in the enlarged Europe –&#160;and I have been particularly interested to listen to those of you who have spoken on behalf of the new Member States – the trans-European networks are one of the key elements in terms of European integration, the internal market and the Lisbon Strategy.
There is a broad consensus between our two institutions on the objectives to be achieved.
As I said at the beginning of the debate, the proposal sets a global envelope of EUR 20.69&#160;billion in commitment appropriations for the period 2007-2013, of which EUR 20.35&#160;billion is intended for the ‘transport’ section and 340 million for the ‘energy’ section.
If Parliament were to confirm this, it would be difficult for the Energy-TENs to have an impact on the development of the energy networks at a time when the world energy situation requires that we strengthen gas and electricity infrastructures, which contribute directly to the security of our energy supply.
These are Amendments 19 and 20.
The Commission’s proposal proposes that this type of project may be subject to funding at a rate of 30% of the total cost of the project, while the exceptional maximum rate of 50% – and I mean exceptional&#160;– should be reserved for the cross-border sections of priority projects.
Indeed, experience has shown us that the Member States concentrate their financial resources on the sections of priority projects located in their own national territory, while, in the case of cross-border sections, there are generally significant delays.
If we accept the concept of a natural barrier, that could also involve sections of projects within Member States, for example when as a result of a geographical constraint, a mountain, a river or the sea, a structure needs to be built.
I understand this since I myself am from a mountainous country, but I truly believe that we should reserve the maximum rate for the cross-border sections of priority projects.
You also want the multi-annual indicative programme to be subject to approval by the Council and the European Parliament.
The definition of the multi-annual indicative programme is an implementing measure, in that the European Parliament and the Council, in the guidelines on the trans-European transport and energy networks, have already established the priorities.
The allocation of financial resources by means of the multi-annual programme must be based on technical assessments of the state of progress of the projects, amongst the priorities set by Parliament and the Council.
It is a key element in terms of European integration, the internal market and the Lisbon Strategy.
In my view, it is essential that Parliament support this proposal.
The excellent report by Mr&#160;Mauro will undoubtedly contribute to a successful codecision procedure.
I believe that today we have presented a number of provisions, in very close cooperation with your Committee on Transport and Tourism, so that, quite rightly, these priority projects may truly be accomplished with the guarantee of respecting a certain number of deadlines.
All of this clearly depends to a very large extent on the financial perspective, but what we can say this evening is that if, thanks to Parliament and thanks to the Commission, the financial perspective is sufficient to cover Europe’s needs, Mr President, we will then be in a position to create these trans-European networks effectively, which will undoubtedly be a determining factor for the single market and for mobility in Europe.
I would like to thank you once again and I would like to thank Parliament for the attention and interest you have applied to this project, for which Mr&#160;Mauro has been an excellent rapporteur.
I have commented on some of the main amendments, but we shall submit this list to you in order not to delay the closure of this debate.(1) &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Nevertheless, it is important to recognise that this approach is not appropriate for certain traditional national meat products and allowance is therefore made for derogation in order to keep those traditional products on the market.
However, I know that a recent study on aspartame has cast doubt on its safety and the Commission has already asked the European Food Safety Authority to proceed without delay to a full evaluation of the new data.
The Commission took account of the ruling of the European Court of Justice, according to which the level of nitrosamines must be kept at the lowest possible level, and of the opinion of EFSA in that regard.
However, the derogations granted to the UK as to the permitted residual levels of nitrates and nitrites in traditional meat products have opened broader debate on the subject, particularly on the definition of traditionally-manufactured products.
The rule of lowering the levels of nitrosamines must be maintained and exceptions must be permitted only when the traditional products are adequately specified and identified.
They probably have a hazardous potential for asthmatics and should therefore be kept at the lowest possible level.
In spite of some outstanding issues, differences between the Council and Parliament were not insurmountable.
With the substantial contribution of the Commission, the first-reading deal was therefore within reach.
All political groups have announced their interest in reaching that deal, so negotiations continued and today we can present an overall compromise package co-signed by the majority of political groups in Parliament and agreed by the Permanent Representatives Committee of the Council.
I wish to thank all shadow rapporteurs of the political groups, representatives of the British Presidency of the Council and the Commission for their cooperation and the political advisors of all three institutions for their contribution, which was substantial in reaching an agreement. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Murko, and expressing my gratitude for the wonderful cooperation that is going to allow us to approve this proposal at first reading, with the compromise amendments we have achieved, including with regard to traditional products and the use of nitrites therein.
Both the rapporteur and the Commissioner have explained the content of these proposals more than sufficiently.
These proposals are intended to update and supplement the existing Community legislation, adapting it to recent technical and scientific advances and also to the judgments of the Court of Justice.
I therefore believe it is important for the Commission to present its proposal for a general revision of the legislation on food additives and sweeteners, and also that announced on sports drinks.
Food additives are the result of constant technological advances that do not just allow us to enjoy better quality food products, but also offer the consumers a high degree of food safety.
Nevertheless, it is necessary to prevent inappropriate use and to keep reviews up to date, in order prevent a lack of knowledge and media pressure from having a negative impact on consumer confidence and harming the image of foods containing these additives, despite the fact that they are not harmful, but rather are an improvement in food safety.
This amendment reproduces the requirements of framework Council Directive 89/107/EEC on food additives, Annex II of which stipulates that all additives will be kept under constant observation and will be evaluated whenever necessary. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Drčar&#160;Murko, and Commissioner Kyprianou for the desire for mutual understanding they have shown in the course of this work.
We also welcome the Commission’s proposal to establish the level of nitrates and nitrites on the basis of added values in, for example, meat products instead of, as at present, on the basis of residual levels.
We want these restrictions to enter into force as quickly as possible, and we have therefore been anxious to reach a rapid agreement with the Council.
We are also pleased that, under the agreement with the Council, the use of soybean hemicellulose is to be limited so as not to make life more difficult for allergy sufferers.
More and more people are rightly expressing concern about the level of additives in food and about the long-term consequences of their use.
If used in other products, they are perfectly safe; so I fully support the principle that we should not place a blanket ban on all substances, and should only ban unsafe products.
That right surely supersedes any marketing tactics or side-effects.
The use of antibiotics is very unwise in any foods because of the danger of microbial resistance and allergenic reactions. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the purpose of the revision of the two directives is to align them with the legislation in force.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
