rapporteur. - (PL) Mr President, in assessing the European Parliament's estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2009 we have taken account of the special circumstances and challenges facing us in the coming year.
It is also important, particularly at a time when the implementation of the Reform Treaty is under discussion, to re-emphasise that Parliament remains firmly committed to budgetary discipline and that it will not exceed the limit of 20% of heading 5 as long as the present situation continues.
My group will be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
It is a realistic and politically astute start because it should not be forgotten that 2009 is an election year.
First, if the Treaty of Lisbon is ratified by all Member States, 2009 will be the first year in which Parliament will operate on the basis of that Treaty.
Second, the year 2009 will see new elections to Parliament, and especially the introduction of the new Members' Statute, which will undoubtedly involve a considerable increase in Parliament's expenditure.
I trust all these factors will be taken into account in preparing the final draft of the European Parliament's budget. (LV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the European Parliament's 2009 budget estimate, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that his rigorous approach to budget expenditure has been proved right and the European Parliament's total level of expenditure next year will not exceed 20% of total EU administrative expenditure.
Thus, regardless of the changes to the European Parliament's work expected in 2009 - pursuant to the Lisbon Treaty, this will include a growing volume of legislative work, a change in the system of remuneration for MEPs, as well as a public information campaign in connection with the European Parliament elections - the total amount of expenditure will remain within the bounds previously set.
And once again I would remind you what an important year 2009 will be for European democracy: with both a new Parliament and a new Commission taking office, it will be a key year in terms of our institutions' communication with the public.
Such is the thinking behind Amendment 2 to Mr Lewandowski's report, which my group has tabled.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) The purpose of the report before us today is for our institution to state its position on the estimated budget for the European Parliament for 2009.
It will be a crucial year: a year in which Parliament will be renewed; a year that will also see significant changes in the statutes for MEPs and their assistants; and, above all, the first year in which the Lisbon Treaty will be in force, giving our institution extra responsibility and the extra work that goes with it.
