With regard to fire-fighting foams, I can agree that the marketing and use of new foams should be prohibited and that a period of 54 months should be granted for the continued use of existing stocks.
It made it possible to find a solution at first reading together with the Council, which also did some good work on this issue.
This solution improves on the Commission's original proposal, and I am pleased to see that the Commission too is now backing the compromise.
We have become aware that chloro-organic compounds are poisonous and cause problems in the environment and we have observed that bromo-organic compounds are hazardous.
The definition of surfaces at 1 microgram per square metre shares the same purpose.
It is also appropriate to phase out stocks, and, in the compromise, Parliament has extended this phasing-out period to 54 months.
I would also point out that this is a first reading agreement and that if Parliament were now to support this compromise, that would also mean that the Council would support it and that we should be ready before REACH enters into force.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I hope that we are on the way to a first reading agreement.
We have achieved several important changes to the draft proposal, which will bring greater protection for human health and the environment, especially in the area where the maximum threshold for the amount of PFOS that can be placed on the market as a substance or preparation has been substantially reduced from the Commission's original proposal.
Industry has voluntarily proposed to limit the use of PFOA by 2014, which in itself is a clear sign that our instincts were right to insist on its inclusion in the legislation.
In conclusion, it appears that this piece of legislation will go through under the Finnish Presidency and we can avoid tying these toxic chemicals up in the REACH queue.
I think that we need to remember this shared vision when, later this autumn, we take another extremely important decision - both for the environment and for our health - namely that relating to the chemicals legislation known as REACH.
A study of people from 17 countries by the World Wide Fund for Nature found that PFOS and six other perfluorinated compounds were present in people's bodies.
I hope, therefore, that we can keep this in mind when we decide on REACH later this autumn.
For this reason, we must now ascertain the exact cause in this specific case and, in the event that declarations have been altered illegally, we must investigate this.
These substances are not biodegradable, they are fat soluble and, once produced, they persist almost indefinitely.
There is a series of assessment benchmarks that can help us make this decision.
I do not accept the argument that we must accept such substances because they lead to revenue generation.
The debate is closed.
