This plan was drawn up without consulting the shareholders and has been imposed on them by the Paris Tribunal De Commerce (Court of Arbitration in Business Matters).
in writing. - (FR) Fifty years!
Almost fifty years during which several European countries have made great efforts in the area of development aid and north-south cooperation.
I voted in favour of the action plan against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, as this is a major problem around the world, causing considerable environmental degradation, contributing to the depletion of commercial and non-commercial fish stocks and other species and resulting in difficulties for communities dependent on fishing for their livelihoods in both developing and developed countries.
I voted in favour of this report, which recommends several measures to tackle illegal fishing, such as urging the Commission to help developing countries, above all those with which it has fishing agreements, to comply fully with the commitments of the above international plan of action designed to prevent illegal fishing.
At this point, I should like to point out that the Russian Federation proposed to the EU the bilateral lifting of visa requirements.
The GUE/NGL Group is also strongly opposed to Article 11 of the joint declaration to the agreement which defines "biometric identifiers" in diplomatic passports as a priority for ensuring a high level of document security.
That being said, this agreement contains obligations that we find unacceptable, for example Article 11 of the Joint Declaration, which states that the requirement of 'biometric identifiers' on diplomatic passports is a priority in order to ensure high levels of security.
The key issue for EU Member States is mass immigration from Africa, Turkey, countries of the South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation (SAARC), Indochina, China and Latin America.
The agreement with Russia should be a kind of model agreement, on the basis of which the Commission will clarify progress in the European economic area, and at the same time will gauge the extent to which it can interfere in the internal affairs of neighbouring countries.
Taking account of both this overview and of current events in Europe and around the world, I cannot accept the idea put forward in the report on the readmission agreement that relations between the EU and Russia are going through a critical phase and that the new partnership and cooperation agreement after 2007 will depend on the perceived human rights situation in Russia.
in writing. - (FR) This resolution adopts the Commission's proposal concerning the Council's decision, which heaps praise on the Lisbon Strategy and asserts that unemployment has gone down in Europe.
in writing. - (SK) I have voted for this very important - though not legally binding - report by Katerina Batzeli, which is both consistent and well-balanced, presenting numerous essential suggestions from MEPs deeply knowledgeable of local traditions and customs in their regions.
Following the uproar caused by the Commission communication on a sustainable European wine industry, and in particular the decision to eradicate 400 000 ha of vineyards, it was necessary for the European Parliament to present its views of future reform of the wine sector in this report.
I firmly believe that the Commission can devise efficient draft legislation only by making proper provision for the proposals from the European Parliament aimed at preserving the leading position worldwide of quality wines produced by the European wine industry, which is still a significant source of employment and prosperity in quite a few European regions, including Slovakia. (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on reforming the common market organisation for wine, because I believe it contains many positive proposals.
in writing. (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have voted against the report on the common organisation of the market in wine.
Just to give an example, I would like to point to Regulation (EC) No 316/2004 which liberalised 17 traditional designations, in reality opening up the market to wine-making piracy.
For all these reasons, while I voted in favour of the report, I would like to express great concern for the future of the high quality of the wine-making sector, particularly the Italian sector.
in writing. - (FR) I must congratulate Mrs Batzeli on her work in this field, of which the economic, social, environmental, territorial and cultural ramifications are enormous.
in writing. - (FR) This report has gone completely against the Commission's proposals on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine and has made that organisation more respectful of the European wine tradition.
I voted in favour of this report as I feel that reform of the winemaking sector must safeguard the specific characteristics of European wines, including Portuguese wines, the quality of which should be appreciated.
Although I acknowledge the need for far-reaching and ambitious reform of the common organisation of the market in wine, in order to modernise it and to adapt it to the development of the Community market and to the pressure of international competition, some of the solutions put forward by the Commission in its Communication of 22 June 2006 - especially that of permanent abandonment - do not resolve the problem of surplus production and do not address the challenge of competitiveness that European winemaking faces on the world market.
We are dismayed that the main measure proposed in the Commission communication for regulating supply and demand in the winemaking sector is the grubbing up of 400 000 hectares of vine, which will reduce production and jobs will be lost.
in writing. - (FR) I wish to ask the Commission the following questions: Assuming that there has been surplus wine production since the 1970s, following 20 years of under-production, which at world level is unclear, why, then, import 12 million hectolitres every year from countries such as Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Argentina?
If, on the pretext of surplus production, my region of Languedoc-Roussillon has to carry out a programme of grubbing up, why import 12 million hectolitres - the exact equivalent of 15 million hectolitres produced in Languedoc-Roussillon - from countries outside the EU?
The constant increase in wine production and quality in the so-called 'New World' countries (South Africa, Australia and South America, where vines are, by contrast, being planted), the increasing presence of these wines on the European market and the fact that worldwide demand for wine is on the increase make the idea of grubbing-up all the more incomprehensible.
It also encroaches on countries' internal affairs, in certain cases in opposition to the Member States' fundamental laws.
What needs to be done in external policy in order to enhance our security in the face of the terrorist threat is to promote not only peace but also economic development.
Low economic development was a feature of all of the 10 new countries which joined the Union in May 2004.
The current economic and social policy guidelines pursued by the EU have been championed again and the contradictions of the social democrats and their role in liberal capitalism have been laid bare.
in writing. (SV) This report contains no analysis of what may need to be harmonised at EU level.
The objective is all but total control of economic policy at EU level.
in writing. (PL) This report has been carefully prepared.
It makes it possible to identify trends in the development of the Europe of 27 Member States and trends in the new countries.
The report contains many important elements for assessing the impact of external factors, such as the economic situation in the United States, the price of oil and the euro-dollar exchange rate.
As a matter of urgency, a global strategy must be drawn up leading to reduced energy consumption, in particular in the transport sector, which is responsible for 56% of oil consumption in Europe.
Higher oil prices, which have hit almost USD 80 per barrel, appear to be a structural phenomenon that is here to stay.
For example, paragraph 20 of the draft report regrets the lack of an energy regulator in the EU.
Its operating margins and economic viability have been significantly affected, thus exacerbating the socio-economic crisis in the sector.
I also voted in favour because the broader debate engendered by this report, both inside and outside Parliament, has helped to clarify the issues for the general public and to ensure that experts and politicians are better informed.
I was able to use this report in a paper on geopolitics and energy that I gave in Ankara at the EU/Turkey Parliamentary Committee.
in writing. (MT) The economic impact of the increase in oil prices is considerably greater in situations such as that of Malta, which is a country wholly dependent on oil as its energy source.
