Madam President, before the debate begins, I just want to pass on the feelings of the people in Ireland regarding the future of our national airline Aer Lingus.
Among the British subjects were two of my constituents, Paul and Lesley Coppin from Mildenhall in Suffolk.
It does seem to me rather extraordinary that they are still being held in custody in a fellow Member State, and I wonder if there is something that you can do to bring this matter to the attention of the Greek authorities in order they be released as soon as possible.
Economic and employment situation in the air transport sector and in the industrial and related services sectors The next item calls for statements by the Council and the Commission on the economic and employment situation in the air transport sector and in the industrial and related services sectors.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the American Airlines plane crash in New York on Monday 12 November has, of course, reminded everyone of the difficult and dreadful plight of the air transport sector.
There is a risk that this latest accident will worsen still further the economic and social crisis that the sector has been facing since 11 September.
However, this should not make us forget the roots of this crisis, which is the result, not only of the combination of economic problems directly linked to the attacks on 11 September, but also of previous structural difficulties which were revealed and aggravated by the events of 11 September.
It seems to me more than ever vital to implement structural, economic and social reforms so as to enable the sector to overcome the current crisis, to give it a boost in the form of social measures, and to lay the foundations of sustainable development in this sector in the long term.
The main cause of the fragility endemic in the European air transport sector is its over-fragmentation, along with a lack of both consolidation at Community level and strategic alliances.
Up to now, the Community structure has been based on the desire to create a single market in which optimum conditions for competition are guaranteed.
Although the difficulties in the air transport sector were caused not by the attacks of 11 September but by structural considerations, the events of that day imposed new constraints on what was already a difficult situation, and it was those constraints which precipitated the current crisis, and which have been made worse by the present context of an economic recession.
They have also decided to limit the airlines' coverage for third-party damages in the same circumstances to USD 50 million.
What is more, additional security measures of necessity mean additional costs for airports and airlines.
Last but not least, American aid, consisting of USD 15 billion in immediate aid and Federal credits to companies in addition to USD 120 million for suppliers of services, have now caused distortions in competition in relation to the European industry, in particular because they have made possible predatory practices on the part of certain companies on the transatlantic routes.
At their meetings on 14 September and 16 October, the Transport Ministers had already discussed the consequences for this sector of the attacks on 11 September, as had the European Council of Economic Affairs and Finance Ministers at its meeting on 21 September, with a view to issuing a rapid and coordinated response from all Member States which would make it possible to support the restructuring of the sector while at the same time trying to retain the basis for healthy competition.
The meeting of the Council of Transport Ministers on 16 October in particular examined the proposals contained in the European Commission' s Communication of 10 October on the economic situation of the air transport sector, with a view to implementing a certain number of its proposals.
It decided that state aid provided to airlines and suppliers of services in order to make up for insufficient or non-existent cover for risks resulting from war would be extended until 31 December.
As regards the cost of additional security measures, Member States have agreed to take these on board initially, without this being regarded as state aid.
However, they have emphasised the need for users and operators to contribute towards this cost in the long term, when the situation has become more normal again.
Both the Member States and the Commission believe that this support must respect the major elements of the Community acquis regarding the containment of state aid to the air transport sector, and must not under any circumstances cause distortions in competition.
We must not allow such a situation to continue within the European Union.
With this in mind, the Presidency and the Commission have worked very hard, with the support of the other Member States, in order to define and implement, as rapidly as possible, measures intended to reinforce security at airports and on board aircraft.
As you know, the Council has invested a great deal of time and energy, particularly through the Council-Commission joint experts group, in order to achieve a policy agreement among Member States as of the forthcoming Council meeting on 7 December.
In a spirit of close coordination with the European Parliament, I believe that it is very important to achieve our aims as quickly as possible.
The Council of 16 October also expressed the hope that the European Parliament should be in a position to give its opinion on this subject as quickly as possible.
In other words, I believe that the public would find it hard to understand if the Council or Parliament were to drag its feet on such a crucial issue.
The Presidency is at the disposal of the European Parliament in order to facilitate a close dialogue between the two institutions, and to enable the Members of the European Parliament to benefit from the expertise of its specialists, with a view to the rapid adoption of measures.
At a second stage we shall be studying the advisability of additional security measures on the basis of the final report of the joint Presidency-Commission ad hoc group, which will be submitted on 7 December.
The Council on 16 October thus made it possible to react coherently to the crisis in the air transport sector, but we should now be seeking to reconstruct a solid and sound foundation in this sector, even though we know that the current crisis may continue for several months.
This debate, which the Council has not yet embarked upon, is all the more necessary within this House, because there is no doubt that in the months to come Parliament will be involved in it.
One way of enabling the airline companies to restore their real viability is to improve the way in which the pressure of competition is channelled in this sector, in particular by having recourse to some form of consolidation.
However, I believe that the preliminary and essential stage in this step forward is to establish a regulatory framework for the air transport sector which will be more coherent and complete.
This 'internal' framework should lay a healthy foundation for the redeployment of the sector and enable us to avoid any distortions in competition.
The collapse of an airline causes job losses not only within that company itself, but also among its subcontractors.
It is also vital that there should be a more far-reaching analysis of the social and environmental impact of the liberalisation of air transport, with a view to creating the conditions for greater harmonisation in this area.
Finally, it will be necessary to develop more specifically targeted measures by the European Social Fund.
The problem lies in encouraging people to be adaptable.
The December 'Employment' Council will certainly enable an agreement to be reached on the directive on informing and consulting workers, which also represents a definite step in the right direction in the form of the consultation of representative bodies in times of crisis.
Finally, looking at the long-term prospects, the challenge we are facing also includes the task of ensuring that civil aviation becomes a sustainable activity.
Security and safety, economic stability and respect for the environment are the essential components of sustainable development in this sector, which leads me to my last point: the need to make progress in the environmental aspect of the sector.
The responses to economic and social difficulties that are needed in the short term, like the measures on security standards that are needed in the medium term, must in no way prejudice the task of continuing and expanding the efforts being made in this area.
We must put into practice the progress that has been made in policy, in particular by rapidly adopting adequate anti-noise measures, but also by adopting measures to reduce greenhouse effect gases, in the context of the undertaking that we gave in Kyoto and confirmed in Bonn and Marrakesh.
Even though European airlines have been less badly affected than their American counterparts, we must ensure that we put in place, at Community level, a regulatory framework that will ensure that they really are viable, and this means in particular revising the competition rules.
Moreover, it must be possible, in a crisis, for the regulatory framework to guarantee a high degree of social protection.
Together we must build up a civil aviation industry which is sustainable at economic, social and environmental levels.
The events of 11 September have exacerbated the current situation exponentially.
The number of passengers on the main carriers has fallen dramatically and has now bottomed out at 20% lower than in 2000.
The main message must be that the proper response is to restructure the airline industry.
The European Commission is examining measures, in the light of state aid rules, on compensating airlines for the damage which they sustained over the four days during which American airspace was closed.
The Commission is currently checking a number of medium-term monthly insurance plans on the basis of competition rules and internal market legislation relating to insurance.
Finally, the Commission and the Council of Transport Ministers have called on the Member States to check that third world carriers can provide the same level of insurance cover as that which is going to be required of European airlines.
The European Commission has been asking the Council for years now for negotiating guidelines on an EU/USA air traffic agreement in order to set the procedure in question in motion.
The President-in-Office of the Council has set out the specific problems and the need for a direct European policy and agreement at European level very clearly.
First of all, there is a relatively complete legal framework which allows companies to negotiate with their employees in order to find new working models in a bid to keep redundancies to a minimum.
These are the legislative and social tools currently available.
The European Commission set the European sectoral dialogue on air transport issues in motion following the crisis on 11 September.
We have already held meetings with the social partners through the Social Dialogue Committee and it has been decided that a European workshop will be held on 3 December, attended by all the sectors at social partner level and by national delegates from the fifteen Member States, in order to discuss the specific question of the repercussions on employment and the nascent social problems, in a bid to reach a joint agreement on measures which we can take into direct consideration.
Madam President, at this time of crisis, when it is hard to find answers and a recipe for recovery, we need proper and direct collaboration both between the European institutions and between the European institutions and the social partners before taking further steps.
Unfortunately this situation is not confined to the airline industry.
Whatever the failures of some of the companies in the European Union to face the challenges of the business world, the vast majority of businesses have, through no fault of their own, found themselves on the brink of bankruptcy, or even worse.
Unfortunately, apart from the short-term assistance concerning insurance cover, which should have been 180 days as at the outset in the United States, no financial help has been forthcoming.
In short, the situation is a disgrace, not least because job losses outlined two months ago by many businesses are already escalating due to the lack of help.
We in this Parliament want action - and we want it now.
Madam President, I came to the Chamber this morning with a prepared speech about the situation in the airline industry.
Others are on the brink of bankruptcy - and what response do we get?
The response from the United States after the events of 11 September was direct and straight to the point.
They made USD 5 billion available to their airlines straight away and offered another USD 10 billion in indirect aid to help them over other crises should they arise.
Before today I suspected that Member States wanted to use this crisis to consolidate the industry, to get rid of some of the airlines.
If that is so, then I condemn it.
I just wonder, Madam President-in-Office, whether people in history will remember the Belgian presidency of the year 2001 as the presidency that oversaw the demise of Europe's civil aviation industry.
One tiny example: the bankruptcy of Sabena or the restructuring of the new Sabena has led to a debate now on the allocation of slots on European routes.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, my group supports the policies set out by the Council Presidency and the Commission.
The air transport sector is experiencing a cyclical and structural crisis, as has been pointed out, but the whole of the European economy - and of the world economy - is also in crisis.
The real response to the employment problem is therefore, of course, to relaunch growth and general policies of social solidarity and job creation.
Moreover, at the level of the European Union, we would like to see the Community' s competition policy adopted and, far from preventing the restructuring of the sector, coming to the aid of that sector, and we should also like this medium-term restructuring policy to be compatible with the policies set out in the White Paper on transport policy, in other words the development of a multi-mode transport policy which reflects, in the medium term, the real situation regarding costs for all sectors as a whole.
Finally, and I believe that it is necessary to draw attention to this point, this Parliament has always voted, by a clear majority, against any spiralling in state aids.
I would find it hard to understand if the majority of this House were to unleash a spiralling growth in state aid to one particular sector.
Since we cannot, apparently, take the issue to the WTO, it is essential that in the context of the overall partnership between the United States and Europe, the European Union should be able to protect those legitimate interests which will, in the long term, work to the benefit of both the American and the European airlines.
Madam President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the economic and employment situation in the airline industry and in the related industrial and services sectors is critical.
The fundamental causes of this crisis are, however, of a structural nature: crippling competition between the airlines, built-in overcapacity, a general economic recession and bad decisions by management.
This motion for a European Parliament resolution refers to a host of necessary measures, for example compensation for the closure of airspace and airports, financial support or guarantees from the Member States to compensate for insurance cover being withdrawn, proposals on providing financial support to the European air transport sector so as to establish a level playing field with the United States and strategies to safeguard or create jobs.
Mr President, after the shock of 11 September, the tragic scale of the crisis in the aviation industry and its related services was already apparent, but the situation has become even more complex with the events of recent days.
Italiatour, Eurofly and the IT services company Sigma Travel will be drastically reduced in size, if not abolished.
The Commission had already authorised, on 17 October, payment of a public subsidy of EUR 387 million, but Alitalia needs EUR 1.5 billion and we do not know how useful the shares created by the Treasury by issuing bonds will be.
Strengthening commercial links with Air France or joining the Skyteam consortium are likely to be more effective in terms of structural reform.
In conclusion, we endorse the joint motion for a resolution and we feel that the situation calls for various different types of action from the European Union, extremely urgent action which, with the precious help of the European social partners, will succeed in firmly stopping the severely critical situation from further deteriorating now.
Madam President, the terrorist massacres of 11 September and last Monday' s aircraft disaster have jolted us into an awareness of the transience of life and to the way in which our society is interconnected.
An attack in the United States is also an attack on the rest of the civilised world, and vice versa.
In the first instance, aid must remain restricted to the industry affected and to the damage which is the direct result of 11 September.
Madam President, the bankruptcy of the Belgian airline company Sabena a few days ago is not only the biggest bankruptcy in Belgian history, but it is first and foremost a human and social tragedy for between approximately 7 500 and 12 000 workers.
There are a huge number of airline companies that are going through very difficult times, and the events of 11 September have only made matters worse.
Firstly, Sabena has been continuously loss making for the last 40 years, except for one year, and that was probably thanks to an accountancy trick.
For the past 40 years, the taxpayers have had to inject no less than BEF 62 billion into that company.
We are all agreed that the airline industry is having a bumpy ride, and we must find a solution in Europe on the basis of a policy of "Europe first" as long as the Americans are putting "America first" .
The extremely difficult situation should also prompt the Commission to clamp down on competition-distorting practices in transatlantic relations.
As a Belgian MP, I would urge that DAT be treated like any other airline company that is being affected by the effects of 11 September.
Mr President, faced with the social catastrophe which the collapse of Sabena represents for Belgium, I should like to add a little humanity to this sitting, by dedicating my first words to all those who, from one day to the next, found themselves, to put it bluntly, deprived of their jobs.
The 12 000 Sabena workers who were dismissed at the beginning of this month are the first victims of this wave of liberalisation in civil aviation.
Such blind liberalisation will do nothing to advance the cause of the European idea or to increase confidence in Europe' s institutions and in our plans for peace and social progress.
Commissioner, the European Parliament' s vote on the Langen report two days ago, confirmed that there are certain sectors that should not be open to competition, and among those sectors are the sectors with which you are concerned.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, what has happened with Sabena in my country is very tragic, and I am pleased that the Belgian Government is making a huge effort to try to cushion the direct and indirect social effects.
I should also like to ask the Commissioner to advise soon whether something will also be done at European level, what the amounts will be that are involved and what kind of efforts will be made in respect of various airline companies.
Sabena is, of course, a spectacular case, but social tragedies are also unfolding in other airline companies.
That is unfortunate, but I believe we should learn from this.
The fact that Sabena is the first national airline company to go bankrupt in the Union speaks volumes.
Mrs Durant, I am pleased that you are offering a window in this respect, but I hope that you can convince all your colleagues, for that is exactly what the opposition in the Council was about.
the Americans are able to adopt a joint policy, but we are not.
And I hope that everyone here in this Parliament is convinced of the fact that we must at long last respond at European, rather than national, level.
Mr President, I actually believe that, faced with the recession in the aviation industry and in air transport, we need some strong decisions in order to restore confidence and open up real prospects.
I personally am not satisfied with the Commission' s response, which favours the speeding up of restructuring in the air transport sector.
I also believe that restoring confidence involves learning lessons from the present crisis and putting a stop to the process of liberalisation that is currently underway.
I believe that the limited targeted measures are insufficient to cope with this crisis.
Since the American aid is considerable, I believe that there should be compensatory aid in the air transport sector, but that it should also be made conditional upon maintaining jobs.
Mr President, I believe that we should also increase cooperation between air and rail transport, and that airports should be integrated into the trans-European networks.
Mr President, the terrorist attacks in September have disrupted the operations of many airline companies in Europe, resulting in job losses in the aviation industry and a reduction in the number of overseas tourists coming to Europe.
For example, from an Irish perspective, Aer Lingus is highly dependent on transatlantic travel.
Secondly, Madam President-in-Office, you rightly referred to the fact that restructuring is necessary.
They cannot be bound to Member State A or Member State B.
Mr President, in making our decisions on the aviation industry in Europe we have to take account of the interconnectedness of our economies and politics in Europe and globally as well.
The fact is that Aer Lingus in Ireland had already been hit by the downturn in the high-tech industries where much of the lucrative business travel for Aer Lingus had already been badly hit because businessmen and women were simply not travelling back and forth across the Atlantic.
Clearly, 11 September virtually wiped out that business.
Tourism is also a major linchpin in the economy of Ireland.
Our airline is an important asset in that area of the industry.
Finally, there are four things I would ask the Commission and the Council to address.
There is an urgent need for a reply to the Irish Government's request to the Commission for permission to assist the Irish airline with the compensation that is due as a result of 11 September.
Parliament should be discussing those proposals when we next meet in Strasbourg in December, not next June.
Mr President, we have to restore public confidence in aviation and we have to let the market decide what happens to the airlines themselves.
We need targeted assistance in areas like insurance and the cost of security.
We must let the market decide what the future of the airline industry shall be.
Aer Lingus, Alitalia, Air France and KLM are not far behind.
Firstly, I am led to believe that there are problems with the Sabena slots that have been offered, in Britain, for example, to British Midland and British European Airways.
For two months, we have been saying that 11 September changed the world and the balance of society.
We are all aware that this crisis has roots in the past, that it is more than just a consequence of the events of 11 September, that it is also the result of excessive market fragmentation.
We ask in our resolution for a European airline industry and a European airline policy.
Mr De Rossa said that the national carrier is as sacred as the national anthem.
If we all act in our own self-interest, we will be unable to reach a European solution.
There are many proposals before us, but these have all been rejected by the Council.
Mr President, the tragic events of 11 September have certainly changed the face of the aviation industry and will probably have more effects in the months to come.
I say to the Commission and the Council that they cannot come here and give us a lecture.
I believe that this social crisis that is being experienced by a certain number of those who operate and work in the air transport sector is obviously a challenge to all of us.
However, I also believe that, despite this challenge and the need to react to this problem, to follow the road that we took in the past, via massive state aid, would be to avoid or conceal a situation which was already in existence before 11 September.
There has been aid in connection with insurance facilities.
I also believe that what we have done regarding the matter of security is an immediate response concerning those elements which will restore passengers' confidence in the safety and security aspects, which are obviously so essential if the public is to regain confidence.
I therefore believe that the responses which have been given by the Council and the Commission are immediate responses.
However, I really believe that a return to massive state aid would be a step in the wrong direction, a step backwards, and a step which would, above all, risk leading us, at a later date, into even more serious difficulties.
There is still an enormous amount of work to do, but I really think that the time has come to begin these discussions on structural consolidation, in addition to the specific responses which have already been provided and which were necessary in the very short term.
What we can decide at European level is a yes or a no and the facility to grant state aid then shifts to the national level.
As far as the second line of approach - social policy - is concerned, I analysed the potential for intervention under the Social Fund in my first intervention.
Policy to deal with the social fallout and employment needs to be taken, of course, at local, national and European level.
As far as intervention under the Social Fund is concerned, as we have been asked directly to table proposals, I should like to say that, depending on their particular circumstances and the problems which redundancies cause them, the Member States will need to table proposals to change their current programme for the community support framework so that it can be approved by the Commission.
This has already been done in other sectors with large companies being restructured both in Great Britain and France.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Combating social exclusion The next item is the report (A5-0372/2001), by Mrs Figueiredo, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council Decision establishing a programme of Community action to encourage cooperation between the Member States to combat social exclusion [C5-0439/2001 - 2000/0157(COD)].
Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as is well-known, and as the recent Commission report on social inclusion confirms, poverty remains at excessively high levels.
Although the latest available data on incomes in the Member States does not capture the whole complexity and multi-faceted nature of the scale of poverty and social exclusion, it does show that in 1997, around 18% of the population of European Union, in other words, more than 60 million people, lived in homes in which the income was less than 60% of the average national income and that around half of these 60 million people had lived below the relative poverty threshold for three consecutive years.
This situation shows how crucial it is that we implement a global strategy for combating poverty and social exclusion, defending human rights in all their aspects, and that this programme is an instrument that must be implemented urgently.
One year ago, in this House, we approved at first reading the report on this Community programme of providing incentives for cooperation between Member States in the fight against social exclusion as an important aspect of the strategy to combat poverty which the Council spoke of so much at the Lisbon summit in March of 2000.
At the same time, however, the Member States have given new commitments, with the definition, in Nice, of the objectives of the fight against poverty, and in Stockholm, where they committed themselves to promoting sustainable development and quality jobs, confirming their desire to thereby contribute to reducing the risk of poverty and social exclusion.
Lastly, after overcoming the Council' s intransigence on aspects that Parliament has always considered to be essential, specifically with regard to the programme' s budget, the participation of NGOs and financial support for them, the role of the European Parliament and the promotion of innovative approaches, we have reached the end of a long process that includes a second reading on 17 May this year, various working meetings with the Belgian presidency and conciliation, in which, finally, consensus was reached on 18 September.
Mr President, may I express my political group's satisfaction with the fact that, for the first time at European level, we are now ready to apply a Community strategy to combat social exclusion.
Not only is it unacceptable for so many million citizens in the European Union and candidate countries to be living below the poverty line, but the knowledge society which we are creating and the increasingly multicultural society in which we live in Europe harbour new risks of social exclusion.
What is important is that this social programme will give us the chance to process our policies on the basis of modern scientific data, on the basis of statistical studies and on the basis of exchanges of best practices, including with countries outside the European Union, such as those in the European Economic Area.
We have special need of such decisiveness at this time when, as the previous debate highlighted, we are feeling the economic and social fallout from the crisis provoked by 11 September more and more acutely in Europe; at the same time, the Member States need to move into action by instigating public dialogue and integrating the fight against social exclusion into all their policies.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs had quite a struggle over this issue of combating social exclusion.
I should therefore like to remind the House, briefly, of the reasons for our insistence.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and, I am sure, Parliament as a whole, approves the choice of the open-cooperation method.
There are people on the margins of society who are not poor, and not all poor people are excluded, but the area of overlapping is a very large one.
In our discussions on this action programme, Parliament has insisted on the need for civil society to be involved in the programme itself and its evaluation.
This involvement is critical.
The answer, without exception, was that they wanted to be consulted because that implied respect for their experience and their opinions.
In the previous debate we talked about the virtues of the market in terms of sustaining airlines, yet we talk less of the 12 000 jobs at Sabena.
Nevertheless, Mr President, this plan against social exclusion is very welcome.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
For approximately 15 minutes nobody came for it.
We have been asking for security measures to be stepped up and we all, therefore, must take responsibility for the people we bring here or allow here in our name.
I would ask my fellow MEPs to support Amendment No 9 so that we can obtain a new reading in the committee.
I agree, and this is why I was giving the floor to the Commission.
Madam President, of course it is also a pity that the Council tried to pre-empt Parliament's opinion with a political agreement and did not have the courtesy to let Parliament express its views first.
The Rule is clear.
I shall, therefore, consult the House: who wishes to continue? (The House decided to continue voting) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Motion for a resolution (B5-0704/2001), by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Security and Defence Policy, on arbitrary arrests and the political situation in Laos. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Joint motion for a resolution on negotiations within the framework of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention following the recent anthrax attacks Before the vote on paragraph 2 Given the uncertainty about the precise position of the President of the United States, I propose correcting the second part of paragraph 2 to say "including the search for effective procedures" instead of "the establishment of existing procedures" .
There are many committees in this Parliament, which do not have representation from every Member State.
Therefore we will find those people will be disenfranchised and that is becoming a greater problem as the European Union enlarges.
We must have the opportunity for members from every Member State to be able to vote on these reports and on these important amendments.
I do not think we do a more important thing than cast our votes for and against proposals in this House and objecting to that is a very foolish thing.
Moreover, if one looks at the votes cast today, there were very few foregone conclusions: there were close votes on all the roll-call votes and that seems to me to show the need to test these matters by voting.
These days we are thinking about defending our civilisation.
There are not one, but fifteen, different juridico-political cultures and systems in the EU.
EU criminal law and an EU police service would, at best, severely damage the Member States' legal traditions and, at worst, consolidate a centralised system without democratic control and, moreover, do so without solving the problems faced by the Member States.
Figueiredo report (A5-0372/2001) Madam President, of course, I voted for the Figueiredo report on the conciliation committee text on combating social exclusion.
I call upon the other 14 States of the European Union and the 12 candidate countries to help pensioners and elderly people in the same way, and not just pensioners and elderly people but non-pensioners as well, for the right to life belongs to all people, whatever their age.
Given these circumstances, it would probably have been more appropriate to make the regulation' s legal basis Article 123(4) of the EC Treaty (last phrase) concerning measures to adopt for the introduction of the euro, and does not, therefore, apply to the countries participating in the single currency.
Article 123(4), however, requires unanimous approval in Council, and Article 95 only requires a qualified majority.
There are over 290 million people who live within the twelve new euro zone countries alone.
It is very important that both small and large businesses contact their local banks and estimate how much currency they will require to carry out their businesses commencing 1 January next.
The European Central Bank is satisfied that the requisite amount of the new euro notes will be dispersed to financial institutions in non-Euro zone countries.
I welcome the fact that the different consumer associations in Europe will be vigilant during the changeover period so as to ensure that the interests of consumers are protected during the timescale of the euro changeover.
I, of course, support the need to introduce measures which reduce costs between domestic and cross-border payments.
We must strengthen confidence in the structures of the new euro currency.
In my capacity as a member of the joint EU-Bulgaria interparliamentary committee, I recently visited the Bohunice power station in Slovakia and the Kozloduy power station in Bulgaria.
Where nuclear power stations are safe, we must allow them to be used, particularly those in the candidate countries.
This is the dependence that Europe paid a high price for during the oil crisis in 1973, when these corporations decided to impose a general price increase on oil to increase the profits of their less profitable wells.
This is why I have voted in favour of the 'package' .
Incidentally, I still do not understand how someone can advocate a liberalisation that seeks to bring prices down and which takes the form of promoting the 'least costly' sources of energy and, on the other hand, complains about being increasingly dependent on external sources as consumption increases (or is not decreasing) due to the fact that prices are very (or too) low.
Apart from being confused, the Chichester report falls in line with neoliberal policies.
Paragraph 18 wants to "promote further market opening in the EU" and paragraph 42 considers that "it is essential to complete the liberalisation of energy markets' ' .
Whereas only a public service policy can meet social and environmental requirements and guarantee "sustainable development" in this economic sector.
The European Union has already reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 4% between 1990 and 1999 and will be able to meet the quota for remaining reductions by 2012 (4%) through low cost measures.
According to data from the European Commission, we will be able to comply with Kyoto by implementing measures costing less than EUR 20 per tonne of CO2.
This is the approach adopted by the Chichester report, emphasising, as does the Green Paper, the need for Member States to maintain a balanced combination of energy sources, which gives nuclear energy its rightful place.
This is the only way not to make European countries more dependent on external sources.
It is also the only way to ensure that the European Union can fulfil its international commitments on limiting CO2 emissions.
Research and development in nuclear energy must, therefore, continue in order to build on our scientific and industrial lead in this field, in order to guarantee our countries maximum independence in the field of energy resources, to preserve the environment and to achieve a satisfactory elimination of waste end-products.
Flemming report (A5-0341/2001) Mr President, just before I begin on the Flemming report I want to speak about the Katiforis report, which we rejected.
Although the report was rejected, I should like to explain why I and my two colleagues from Scotland supported some of the amendments.
Firstly, we believe that, in line with Amendment No 3, no country may be obliged to hand over water against its will and free of charge.
Amendment No 5 was concerned with the more technical matter of water basins.
In the twenty-first century, at a time when the world has never had such great technical capability, the fact that an entire swathe of humanity does not have access to running water, let alone drinking water is largely due to the social barbarity of capitalism.
This Communication and the report on sustainable water pricing show that filling the dam to a height of 139m, as I have been proposing, would not only enable more than 600 000 trees and habitats of enormous importance to be saved, but would also be more sustainable in economic terms.
However, by voting against the Liberal amendment (which, in turn, led to the rejection of the entire report), the Greens have missed a major opportunity of stopping the Spanish project on the basis of general principles.
I therefore consider that it is of the utmost importance to uphold the position calling for the introduction of both a minimum excise duty of 57 % and a minimum payment - EUR 70 - with the aim of increasing the sales price of tobacco.
We already know that the Commission is also cooking up a proposal to increase excise duties on alcohol and to abolish the zero rate for wine, which is also inappropriate and even counter-productive.
There would be an increase in the price of cigarettes of between 200% and 500%, a further illustration of this proposal' s lack of realism.
I quote: · Technical mistakes in studies; · Discrimination between countries; · The collapse of current balances; · Uncertainties and lack of realism in the objectives proposed; · Calling for differences in tax receipts instead of convergence of rates; · The danger of destroying medium-sized manufacturers in a market dominated by huge multinationals. (Speech cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) . (IT) I voted for the Katiforis legislative resolution on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 92/79/EEC, Directive 92/80/EEC and Directive 95/59/EC as regards the structure and rates of excise duty applied on manufactured tobacco products, which calls upon the Commission to withdraw its proposal for a number of reasons unanimously upheld by the entire Italian section of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party (Republicans, Democrats and members of the Italy of Values party).
The proposal to revise the current subsidies for tobacco growing would have had a disastrous effect on the economies of entire rural areas which are some of the most disadvantaged in the European Union, as can be seen from a recent European statistical analysis carried out by Eurostat.
Strangely, in fact, the Member States which do not grow tobacco but which have not banned smoking would receive sums benefiting their Northern European style of agriculture, which is already sufficiently subsidised, and, what is more, they would hypocritically continue to rake in millions of euro in taxes and excise duties on tobacco products and accessories.
This position does consider the interests of the public but is unpopular with the Union des Industries Chimiques, a French employers' organisation which, in a letter to Members of the European Parliament, protests about the constraints that we are attempting to impose on companies that manufacture or sell chemical products.
Paragraph 16 of the report seeks to extend the REACH system to cover chemicals manufactured in volumes of under one tonne per year; this will lead to a possible twenty-fold increase in the number of chemicals requiring authorisation, and an impossible workload for those given that task.
The definition should be restricted to CMR (categories 1 and 2), and POP substances, as defined in the Stockholm Convention.
A report by the Institute of Environmental Health in the United Kingdom, estimated that 12.8 million animals will be needed in the testing of 30,000 chemicals.
The rapporteur recognises this problem, but places too much faith in the availability and acceptability of non-animal tests.
Furthermore, to gather "base-set" level of information simply for chemicals manufactured in volumes over one tonne per year will take approximately 36 years alone, according to the IEH report.
The timescale set out in the report (2008) is thus completely unrealistic.
I welcome, in particular, the following points: 1) A complete ban, within a generation, in other words by 2020, of discharges and emissions into the environment of all dangerous substances. 2) The creation of a single system for the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals (REACH), replacing the current system that treats new substances and existing ones differently. 3) The adoption of the precautionary principle, through reversing the burden of proof for substances that cause great concern.
First of all, I feel that it adopts a balanced position, which will improve environmental protection and public health on the one hand and which maintains the competitiveness of the chemical industry on the other, in line with the strategy for sustainable development adopted in Göteborg.
We must understand the fact that only a tiny minority of the more than 100 000 chemical substances in existence have to date been tested and that, furthermore, they are being produced in greater numbers each year.
The tragic events in Toulouse recently demonstrated the urgent need to close this gap in our knowledge.
At the same time, we need to create a system of registration, assessment and authorisation that is 'manageable' for public authorities and that the industry can, in due course, supplement with the necessary data.
I also feel that the timetables put forward in the report are appropriate because they are realistic.
We therefore fully support the approach of this report which improves, on a number of points, the already ambitious Commission proposal.
Having said that, in order to be understood, our message must also be balanced.
I wish to point out that this industry directly or indirectly involves no less than 5 million jobs.
In conclusion, although we must send a message that is powerful, it must also be credible.
The European Commission remains disinclined to present fresh proposals, and the Member States implement earlier recycling agreements with a delay of years.
Salafranca Sánchez Negra report (A5-0336/2001) We are voting against the report in spite of the sound initiatives it contains concerning partnership between the EU and the Latin American countries on, for example, conflict prevention, development cooperation and combating poverty and the drugs trade.
Instead of the promised development, the opening up of the markets to huge companies and to the financial establishment has plunged Latin America into poverty.
And there is not even any discussion of cancelling the debts that are strangling these countries.
The main objectives of the new Joint Strategy must, in line with the priorities adopted in Rio, be political, such as with the extension of the Bi-Regional Political Agenda; the update and revision of political dialogue at ministerial level and the creation of a EU-Latin American Transatlantic Assembly; economic, financial and commercial, such as the conclusion of various Association Agreements and the creation of a EU-Latin America Free Trade Area, which is planned for 2010, and social and cultural, such as the creation of a Bi-regional Solidarity Fund and a global plan to combat drugs, amongst others.
I therefore give my total support to the rapporteur' s position reiterating the need to establish the bi-regional strategic partnership approved at the Rio summit and in the recommendation to the European Council with a view to approving the EU' s common strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, on the basis of the objectives established in the Rio summit' s priorities.
Motion for a resolution on air transport (B5-0702/2001) Claiming that the airlines are suffering as a result of the 11 September attacks on the United States is a barefaced lie.
Air France' s share dividends, for example, have increased by 22%, and this happened three days after the attacks on New York and Washington.
It has just bought out Air Afrique and brought Alitalia under its wing as well as the Czech airline CSA.
And, like other large European airlines, it is also doing very well out of the bankruptcies of AOM-Air Liberté, Sabena and Swissair.
In recent years in Europe, this has led to hundreds of thousands of job losses in the air transport sector alone, which does not cause national and European leaders to bat an eyelid because huge profits are consequently pocketed by the companies' shareholders, such as the incredibly wealthy Baron Seillière, the French "bosses' boss" .
The attacks of 11 September have simply been an excuse for the capitalists in the air transport sector to receive new subsidies while pursuing their offensive against their employees.
And they have been aided and protected in this endeavour by the various national governments.
Even before 11 September, there was every reason to search for possibilities to stop and reverse this expansion.
It is a report in the framework of the codecision procedure on employees' rights and insolvency.
Thank you, Mrs Van den Burg.
Mr Lamy will come here as soon as he can.
Mr Bouwman, I am giving you, as rapporteur, the floor for five minutes to present your report.
A great deal has changed since then, especially within the labour markets, in terms of types of employees and descriptions of the same, the economy has become more globalised and internationalised, there are more businesses that operate both within a certain country and outside it.
I think that the Commission would also be in favour of this, but a number of countries provide for exemption provisions, and we do not want to make life too difficult for them.
That is a problem that will require further examination, also in terms of the position of the self-employed.
All of this should be based on a political will to provide employees with a minimum degree of protection under Community law in the event of their employer becoming insolvent.
We should use the time we now have until the actual vote to consider whether those misunderstandings can be removed and whether this joint intention can be expressed in a compromise amendment.
However, it also crops up in a number of other dossiers.
I should therefore like to ask the Commissioner what initiatives she intends to take on this score and urge her to adopt a pro-active stance on this.
I am also in favour of Amendment No 4 which proposes to extend the protection of workers of employers in other insolvency situations beyond those situations covered by the definition of insolvency proposed by the Commission.
However, on Amendment No 6, the extension to any other procedure or even to "de facto" situations of insolvency can only be accepted as an option for the Member States and not as an obligation.
The term "pay" should continue to be defined in the national law of the Member States.
I cannot accept Amendment No 1, which aims to prevent employees from being "converted" to self-employed persons; Amendment No 7 which proposes the introduction of a Community definition of "employee"; nor Amendments Nos 8 and 16 which propose to add categories of workers who may not be excluded from the scope of the directive.
There are some self-employed people who are economically dependent.
The responses of the social partners emphasised the need to clarify and analyse the situation in all Member States because there is a diversity of situations, there are many different kinds of self-employed people.
There is, therefore, no need to mention them specifically.
Finally, some amendments should be rejected because they would not help to achieve the underlying objective of the proposal.
I reject Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 16, 17 and 18.
Mr Ribeiro, I have taken note of your request.
Mr Pronk, you have one minute.
It is an important report and it seems that we are doing the right thing.
The world of road transport seems to have broken free from any legal framework, from any control standards.
The residents of all sensitive or high-density areas and all professionals are calling for Europe to intervene and the matter is of the greatest urgency.
The memory of the victims of Gotthard and Mont Blanc must inspire us to adopt a new approach, one that is more forward looking and more respectful of our means of transport.
If we continue just to talk about this and do not take any measures then we will have to be prepared for the fact that there will be more accidents in these delicate and sensitive areas, in particular in the Alps.
However, the fundamental problem is surely that there is too much freight rumbling through the Alps by road in heavy goods vehicles.
Giving priority to private interests, therefore, is bound to conflict with the general interest.
It is difficult to apportion blame for these incidents; moreover, that is not for us to do.
At present, the Commission is carrying out pre-preparatory work with the help of first-class experts, with a view to submitting a proposal to Parliament at the beginning of 2002.
And, of course, this particular accident again raises the question of freight transport through the Alps.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
In order to achieve world peace, it is essential for people of different creeds and races to respect each other and live together in peace.
Apparently, his position is not strong enough in order to keep the country united and allow the different nations to live together peacefully.
Autonomy for those regions should not go as far as observing their own rules that are diametrically opposed to national legislation and that suppress the population and women, in particular.
However, Europe' s hands are tied if the president and the government themselves lack the courage to act and to do everything in their power to allow the Nigerians to live together in peace.
Mr President, two years ago, following fair elections in the multi-cultural and multi-ethnic state of Nigeria, the military dictatorship was replaced by a parliamentary democracy.
Mr President, those of us who were in Abuja and Kano last year for the ACP meeting welcomed President Obasanjo's move from military dictatorship to democracy.
Thousands have died as a result of violence, especially in Kaduna and many Christian homes, churches and businesses have been destroyed.
The Zanfara state government has given local vigilante groups the power to implement Sharia law.
In reply seventeen southern states have demanded the right to set up their own police forces.
Northerners are leaving Lagos after riots that have led to deaths.
Now we see in Benue and Taraba in east and central Nigeria tribal, not religious, wars.
It must also provide humanitarian support for Nigeria, where over 200 people have died of cholera in the last few weeks, and help the people who have been displaced as a result of this violence.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the events in and around Afghanistan have obscured our view of trouble spots in other parts of the world, for example in Nigeria.
The European Union should not, however, be indifferent to what is happening in this the most populous country in Africa.
At the beginning of this year, the President of Nigeria, President Obasanjo, declared that 2001 would be the year in which the Nigerian people would reap the rewards of the transition to democracy.
We supported this statement when we met at that time in Abuja in the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
The President and all of the forces of democracy in Nigeria are called upon to take determined action against violent criminals using the legal means at their disposal, to secure respect for universal human rights and to hurry through economic reforms which will benefit all parts of the country, if there is to be an end to this misery.
Mr President, I am sure that, like me, when you call for a debate on the Democratic Republic of Nigeria, you know we are actually talking about a corrupt military oligarchy in an African country to which we give our support.
By not taking any preventive action, the military powers have allowed a climate of latent ethnic conflict to evolve and one of these conflicts, in the East of the country, pitting the Tivs and the Jukuns against one another, has just led to the deaths of 200 civilians, who were massacred by soldiers.
The most shocking aspect, Mr President, Commissioner, is that the State authorities are trying to play down this event by explaining that the soldiers involved in the massacre were reacting to the murder of some of their fellow militiamen.
In my view, we must, as we confirmed at the ACP summit on 1 November, force countries that legitimately claim to be our partners in dialogue, that we choose as partners and that request financial support from us, to comply with commonly accepted rules and with international conventions.
Lastly, an independent inquiry must now be opened into the murders that took place in November 1999 and in October 2001.
We should be aware that our colleagues in the Nigerian parliament have called these massacres examples of 'ethnic cleansing' .
Mr President, between 22 and 24 October last, Nigerian soldiers raged among the people of Benue state.
Over 200 civilians were killed in this massacre and houses and market stalls were burned down.
Neither European Union nor United Nations resolutions have acknowledged the escalation of the ethnic conflicts in Nigeria.
Lastly, the European Union should implement the procedure laid down by Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
In May 2001, the Commission issued a common position making provision for political dialogue with Nigeria to be strengthened.
This common position is based on human rights and missions headed by European Union diplomats have been in contact with the Nigerian government.
One mission was concerned with the economic situation and the other with human rights and the problem of human rights and the need for the government to intervene and take action have been highlighted.
The government has acknowledged the problems and stressed that it intends to continue its efforts along these lines but I believe that parliament has also set limits on the potential for this particular government to intervene.
The first is the education of the security forces in the human rights sector.
The local authorities are more or less coping with the problems arising mainly as the result of movements of the population within the country, but I must stress, as has already been said, that Nigeria's problems are of a seriously structural nature.
Thank you very much Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
Effects of hurricane "Michelle" in Nicaragua, Cuba and Honduras Mr President, before beginning my two minutes of speaking time, and as a point of order, I would like to point out to the Presidency that there is an error in the transcribed text.
In paragraph four of the Resolution there is a phrase missing, literally 'which should be compatible with European Union doctrine on cooperation, respect for human rights and democracy' .
And now, Mr President, I would like to begin my allotted intervention by pointing out that this resolution aims to tackle the problem of the devastation caused by hurricane Michelle, which has particularly affected three countries: Honduras, Nicaragua and Cuba.
The effects of this disaster are exacerbated by the fact that the three countries in question have levels of poverty that I personally would call extreme.
In macroeconomic terms, Nicaragua has foreign debt of USD 6 500 million, exports less than a third of what it imports and the country balances its payments and survives, ultimately, thanks to international aid and emigrants' remittances, particularly from the United States and Costa Rica.
With regard to the situation in Cuba, on another delegation visit, I think we all will agree that the situation of that country is extremely gloomy.
I personally took the trouble to call the Commission delegation in Nicaragua.
However, despite these disasters, democracy is slowly being established in these countries once again, and the European delegation, of which I am a member, which has just been to Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua, is unanimously agreed on this point.
Also totally devastated by the latest hurricane, the worst it has suffered for 50 years, Cuba is currently the only country in Central America which has not signed a cooperation agreement with the European Union, and its only hope in these times of trouble is humanitarian, emergency aid.
Therefore, I urge the Council to instruct the Commission to reopen democratic cooperation negotiations with Cuba, insisting on total respect for European democratic values, which will not accept two different sets of values.
We also have to acknowledge the fact that in Cuba there have not been so many victims thanks to the very quick reaction and very good organisation of the public authorities serving both the general public and tourists.
For the fact that there should be a common position that prevents there being a normal relationship with Cuba, as there is with other countries, is regretted by non-governmental organisations, the church, representatives of the European Union, and even dissidents.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I too would like to express our solidarity with the people of Honduras, Nicaragua and Cuba, whose countries have been tragically devastated by the effects of hurricane Michelle.
Along with Iris, on 8 October, and Mitch, which we have not forgotten, this hurricane is one of a long list of natural disasters which regularly affect areas which are already suffering, adding tragedy to poverty.
Although the European Union is to be congratulated on the aid it is sending to Honduras and Nicaragua, it must be noted that Cuba is totally excluded from this demonstration of solidarity.
Cuba, which has suffered its worst disaster in 50 years, is unable to receive our help, for it is the only country in Latin and Central America which does not have a cooperation agreement with the European Union.
This situation is no longer appropriate: it is our duty to restate the need for a cooperation agreement focusing on environmentally sustainable development to be signed with Cuba without delay, and to review the European Union' s position.
We cannot tolerate a situation which deprives an entire people of the aid received by neighbouring countries which have suffered the same disasters.
A large proportion of our efforts will be included within the Reconstruction Plan for Central America and within the framework of the Union' s agreements with Honduras and with Nicaragua.
It is vital that we revise the European Union' s common position on Cuba, which today is obsolete and even counterproductive, with a view to achieving the objectives that should have been pursued in 1996 when it was established, that is to say, the progress and prosperity of the Cuban people.
In any case, I do not think that the situation in Cuba is as gloomy as those who are determined to criticise that country would have us believe.
There is also a need for adequate heavy equipment to deal with situations like this and even picks and shovels seem to be in short supply.
This does not mean that we will not hope that something good will nevertheless come out of this terrible catastrophe and out of our provision of aid, namely that Algeria will find a way to really step up the necessary dialogue with those who want peace and freedom in that country.
The acts are horrendous, and it is high time that the government and the president of this country found a way out of the crisis.
Expectations were high when Bouteflika was elected President, but there have also been many disappointments in recent months: disappointment that more is said than done; disappointment that the people are addressed ex cathedra and not consulted.
Therefore, this catastrophe has only made this situation worse, with more than 600 victims, as has been stated, and with more than 20 000 people who have lost any standard of living they may have had.
I know that we ask a great deal of the European Commission, but it is also true to say that the European Parliament is very sensitive to the situation in countries in Central America - as stated previously - as it is with countries in the Mediterranean.
The government has failed in its primary mission of serving the general interests of the people.
This situation must on no account be allowed to occur again either in Algeria or elsewhere.
The dead in Algeria are also our dead.
The homeless in Algeria are also our homeless.
If we speak of a global village in economic terms then we must also speak of a global village of compassion and solidarity.
Firstly, as far as Hurricane Michelle is concerned, the Commission has been closely monitoring its effects in Central America in the Caribbean area since the beginning of the crisis, in cooperation with our experts and partners in this field.
Michelle started on 29 October as a tropical storm off the northern coast of Nicaragua and Honduras, where it caused severe floods.
On 4 November, Michelle became a hurricane that crossed Cuba and touched Jamaica.
ECHO services decided on funding once an initial evaluation of the hurricane damage had been carried out in Cuba.
The decision will mainly involve the evacuation of people in danger, food aid for Honduras, the provision of temporary shelter in Jamaica and the distribution of water, sanitation and health packages in all countries.
Members of this House have raised two main issues.
One concerns Nicaragua.
The second comment concerned Cuba.
Some people wanted a revision of the EU Common Position on Cuba, announced on 25 June 2001.
In fact Cuba has benefited from around EUR 125 million in aid since 1993, largely in the humanitarian field, as well as the food security programme and some budget line assistance.
The European Commission has followed the situation with great attention and concern.
President Prodi sent a message to President Bouteflika to express the solidarity of the European Union with the Algerian flood victims.
Humanitarian operations funded under this decision will be implemented by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and by two NGOs - Médicins du Monde and Médicins sans Frontières.
With those decisions on Hurricane Michelle and the Algerian floods, the Commission underlines its determination to address the needs of victims of humanitarian disasters whenever they occur.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
I am not sure why Parliament has decided to bring forward an urgent resolution at this time, unless it wants to contribute something useful in the context of the current international crisis, the continuing threat posed by weapons held by terrorists or the consequences of the large accumulation of weapons in Taliban hands in Afghanistan.
It is important, therefore, that when considering the matter of small arms we should take care not to become over-obsessed with our own authorities or industry: these are the easy targets.
In relation to Afghanistan it is to be hoped that a legitimate government with democratic aspirations will be established there very soon, anxious to engage positively in the real world and begin the development of a sustainable economy and a better life for all its people.
Mr President, nearly ten years ago, in the early 1990s, I travelled through the Khyber Pass, a trip I can strongly recommend to all colleagues - though perhaps not at this moment.
At the top there is a small village where you can buy food, water and "souvenirs".
The "souvenirs" are drugs, home-made Kalashnikovs and home-made surface-to-air rocket launchers.
The first observation I wish to make is that this expression 'small arms' is misleading, because small arms include heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, grenade throwers and mortars of less than 100 millimetres.
We cannot shed crocodile tears on Thursdays over conflicts that are continually supplied by the legal or illegal trade in these arms.
The European Union welcomes the results of the United Nations conference on the illegal trade in small arms although, as the members have said, it does of course recognise that the results might have been clearer and more concrete.
However, we believe that the very fact that this first conference was held at all is an important step.
We particularly welcome the decision to organise another conference before 2006 so that the progress made can be examined and evaluated by then.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
It is very important to demonstrate our commitment to disabled people.
We must make sure that we mainstream disabled people; that all legislation takes account of the specific needs of disabled people, whether they are wheelchair users, someone with a visual impairment, someone with a hearing impairment, someone with a learning difficulty, or someone with a mental health problem.
All EU citizens should have equal rights.
I hope that in 2003 - if not before - we make sure that all of Parliament's buildings are accessible to disabled people - they are not at the moment - and that all EU Member States are aware of the problems that disabled people face.
I invited her over to the Article 13 Anti-Discrimination hearings.
They unlocked them, took off the rope that was binding them and then 20 minutes later they were locked and bound again.
I hope we will hear the announcement of that in 2003.
It is essential that regional and local government are involved in this year but, more importantly, that organisations of disabled people and representing disabled people are involved in this year.
Particularly for sign language interpretation, for personal assistance, for accessible meeting rooms, for hotels etc., there are added costs; in addition, funding for impairment-specific NGOs is only for 2002, not for the year itself.
I want to stress our full support for the designation of 2003 as European Year of People with Disabilities.
There are approximately 38 million people in the European Union who have a disability.
This must change.
Surveys show that the intellectual capacity of people with physical disabilities is very often under-estimated.
The exclusion of people with disabilities from society not only denies their fundamental rights, but also deprives society of diversity and inclusivity.
They are now Amendments Nos 20, 45, 47 and 48.
However, there are other barriers as well, maybe less obvious but just as insurmountable, which restrict the freedom of European citizens with disabilities, such as the barriers to movement within the Union and to going to live in another Member State.
We need a multifaceted strategy to ensure that these people are guaranteed equal opportunities in full respect for the European citizens' Charter of Fundamental Rights.
With this in mind, we are looking forward to the Year of Disabled People, because we hope that it will sharpen the focus of our work and that we will be able to take further initiatives to eliminate the injustices and barriers which exist in our society.
The second important point is that 2003 should not just galvanise governments into action.
I should like to highlight the following points: first, I totally agree that we need to concentrate more on awareness-raising about various types of disabilities and the fact that some people with very serious disabilities are victims of multiple discrimination and, of course, the plight of those kept in institutions.
We believe that 2003 will be the start of a new form of collaboration, a new type of innovative policy at European level for people with disabilities.
The budget, which is EUR 12 million, is small but we should point out that it is not for implementing policies but to back specific events of local or national importance, the main function of which will be to kick start societies and organisations.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Vote Mr President, I voted for the report on the European Year of People with Disabilities, but Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are also some States whose laws include rules which discriminate against people with disabilities.
The first dramatic victims of this policy are the handicapped and people with disabilities.
In Greece, only 7% of disabled children attend special schools, while 185 000 disabled children are not even in the education system.
