Common consular instructions: biometric identifiers and visa applications (debate) The next item is the report by Sarah Ludford, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Common Consular Instructions on visas for diplomatic missions and consular posts in relation to the introduction of biometrics including provisions on the organisation of the reception and processing of visa applications - C6-0166/2006 -.
Following the adoption of the draft report by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on 29 November 2007, the Slovenian Presidency tried to reach a consensus between Member States on the rewording of several aspects of the text, so as to take into account the concerns expressed by the European Parliament.
At the tripartite ministerial talks on 17 June, the discussion essentially concentrated on the issue of diplomatic and consular immunity for external service providers, and its corollary, the transmission of data, without any agreement being reached.
Nevertheless, the Commission supports the Presidency's proposal that fingerprints should be taken from children between the ages of six and twelve only for verification purposes and not for identification in the VIS (Visa Information System).
I should like to remind you that the adoption of this amendment to the common consular instructions constitutes an essential prerequisite for the implementation of the VIS.
As a result of the generosity with which the German Embassy in Kiev tended to grant visas, the number of visas issued to Ukrainian nationals rose from about 150 000 in 1999 to about 300 000 in 2001, which led to a considerable rise in illegal immigrants in the Schengen area.
The European Union's visa policy is a reflection of how we welcome people.
We have just been reminded by my colleague Mr Coelho that failure to reach agreement on this at the first reading carries a huge message.
I did wonder, Baroness Ludford, whether perhaps we might reach a compromise by making a distinction between the fingerprints taken from children between the ages of six and twelve, which would be used solely for verification purposes, and the fingerprints of children older than twelve, which could actually be used for other purposes.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 July 2008.
