The last provocation by the ruling regime against its citizens was last month's 500 percent increase in fuel prices.
Today a heavy responsibility also falls on certain countries in this region, such as China and India, which have the potential to exercise their influence in order to reach a settlement of the conflict in Burma in a civilised way.
Burma has been under a totalitarian military regime for 45 years.
The contents of the recitals in this first resolution on Burma are especially shocking.
Not only were demonstrators beaten violently by police, but multiple arrests were made and members of the 88 Generation Students group have been reimprisoned.
Countries like China and Russia, who prevented the adoption of the last UN Security Council resolution on Burma and China of this year, need to play a more responsible role regarding this country and should lend their support to any future UN resolution.
I welcome the statement by Gordon Brown last week that he would take a lead in action against Burma, and I welcome, in our resolution, paragraph 10, which recognises the important role that ASEAN is now playing with respect to Burma, paragraph 14, demanding that China, Russia and India use their best endeavours to put pressure on the current regime, and paragraph 20, calling for a new UN Security Council resolution.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, this is already the third occasion during this parliamentary term on which I have taken the floor during a debate on human rights to speak about the social and political situation in Burma.
When we discussed the resolution on Burma in the PPE-DE Group yesterday, we came to the conclusion that the motion for a resolution is very good but the situation in Burma is very bad.
It is essential to exert further pressure on China and Russia so that the situation in Burma can eventually be discussed at the United Nations Security Council.
A large part of the population of 52 million is in anguish and poverty, which is the result of bad political and economic governance.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FI) Mr President, in 1990 the National League for Democracy won the democratic elections in Burma.
A military junta placed the party's leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, under house arrest.
Aung San Suu, who was elected leader in Burma's elections, remains under arrest.
China has already exercised its right of veto in the Security Council and blocked a resolution on Burma.
