Subject: Action by the Finnish Presidency in respect of children and their families What progress has the Finnish Presidency made towards enhancing the well-being of children and their families in the European Union?
The subject was also included in the National Strategy Reports on Social Protection and Social Inclusion produced by the Member States for the Commission in September.
The Finnish Presidency has made fatherhood and the more equal involvement of men in family life the subject of debate.
The Finnish Presidency has worked very closely in various areas of policy with Germany, the next country to hold the presidency, and I am confident that the good policies will continue and strengthen during the next presidency too. (DE) Madam President-in-Office of the Council, we know that most workers are employed in family firms.
It is nonetheless important that, while we ponder these questions, one of the criteria is surely the family-friendly view. (ES) Madam President, the welfare of children in the European Union is still facing certain difficulties, but they have been more or less resolved.
However, what happens to children who are in the European Union but are not its citizens?
As I said in my original answer, the Commission has forwarded a communication on the promotion of children's rights in the Union, and it also actually relates to nationals other than those who were born in the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Hague Programme for strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union, which was approved in November 2004, and the related Council and Commission action plan of 2005 both establish a framework within which to develop an EU policy on legal immigration.
With this in mind, the Commission intends to submit for approval several proposals for acts set out in the action policy programme on legal immigration adopted in January 2006.
The first of these is a proposal for a general framework directive whose main purpose would be to guarantee common rights for all nationals of third countries who already work legally in a Member State but who do not as yet have the right to long-term residency status in the EU.
These proposals apply to immigration and residency requirements for highly trained workers, immigration and residency requirements for seasonal workers, immigration and residency requirements for employed trainees, and the procedures for regulating the immigration of personnel sent by their company to another country temporarily, and temporary residency and stays in a country.
As I said in my original speech, however, the Member States will consider, for example, volumes of legal immigration and how many people they want to take from their own point of view.
With regard to the 'passerelle' clause, to which the honourable Member refers, during a recent debate I described in detail how hard the Presidency had tried to make decision-making more efficient in justice and home affairs, but we did not succeed in this attempt. (LT) Madam President, you mentioned that a directive is being prepared to encourage and regulate the migration of highly qualified specialists.
Mr President, a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council to declare 2007 the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All was agreed in May.
It is the Commission's task to ensure that any forms of discrimination referred to in Article 13 of the Treaty are addressed and dealt with impartially.
With regard to the European Year for Intercultural Dialogue, I would like to say that the Commission submitted a proposal for a decision on it to the European Parliament and the Council in October last year.
The Council's common position on the decision was adopted in mid-November and submitted to the European Parliament.
Subject: Counter-terrorism strategy The European Council adopted an EU counter-terrorism strategy in November 2005.
The meeting on 10 May, during the Italian Presidency, was the last indication of this commitment.
With regard to the claim made in the question that the invitation was sent at the last minute, the Presidency wishes to point out that the President of the European Parliament was sent an official invitation on 10 April 2006.
As the author is not present, Question No 5 lapses.
Only electric energy is produced in Lithuania itself and 80 % of this energy is provided by the Ignalina nuclear power plant, which is scheduled to close in 2009.
Without prejudice to this commitment, the general safeguard clause referred to in Article 37 of the Act of Accession is applicable until 31 December 2012 if energy supply is disrupted in Lithuania.
Given such an uncertain state of affairs, could Lithuania apply Article 37 of the Act of Accession and prolong the operation of the Ignalina nuclear power plant, provided that safety standards allow, until Lithuania's energy problems are resolved?
The Council would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the answer which was given to her oral question H-0815 this year.
This will also be an important step forward in developing European networks. - (LT) Madam President, Article 4 of the Accession Treaty establishes a common defence condition until 1 December 2012.
Lithuania is planning to build a new nuclear power plant in Ignalina.
Question No 9 has been withdrawn.
It is still the strategic goal of the European Union to find a quick and lasting solution to the situation in Kosovo, without endangering Serbian democracy and general stability in the region.
When notification was received that the Serbian parliamentary elections were to be held on 21 January 2007, Martti Ahtisaari said that he would put a proposal to the parties immediately after the elections, as he did not want the solution to Kosovo's status to become an election weapon in Serbia's future elections.
Success is vital, because it would offer favourable prospects for the future, both for the inhabitants of Kosovo and for general stability in the region.
If we talk about European values - something which has also been in the news a great deal - and we also consider the issue of the free movement of people, then we have a European problem, certainly if we take into account the fact that Dutch doctors were involved in this affair.
