Some of these are technical; some are clarifying and make our rules more readable, such as the one that puts together Rules 141, 142 and 143 into a single codified text governing how we actually organise our debates in plenary.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I am one of those curious constitutional animals who think that the Rules of Procedure mirror our own work here in our own Parliament.
The general remark is that I think it is also very important to talk about the second aspect of Mr Corbett's report: the impact of the Lisbon Treaty upon our Rules of Procedure.
I would also like to commend Amendment 68 concerning the recasting procedure.
I think Parliament has constrained itself too tightly, and we should more properly reflect the interinstitutional agreement of 2001 in our procedures to permit committees to talk about substantive changes to parts of directives or regulations that the Commission is seeking to recast, but in a very restricted form.
Lastly, Mr President, there is another element that concerns us very much.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, rules of procedure form the basis of all work in a democratically elected House.
Consequently, my group, too, has tabled amendments that would make all voting electronic.
I welcome the fact that we are making our debates more attractive: in future it is not the red card, but the blue card that will bring more dynamism.
Rejecting the change proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs amounts to denying the power to improve a text within the framework of a normal procedure, which is a serious error. . - (SV) Thank you, Mr President.
Another way in which a previous reform from a number of years ago is being revisited is the amendment by the ALDE Group concerning recasting.
Mr Duff, the rule on when there are a large number of amendments in plenary and the President can ask a committee to look at it: it is not a referral back to committee of the report.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 6 May 2009.
