Reform programme of the Polish shipyards (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the reform programme of the Polish shipyards. (PL) Madam President, I would like to inform you that a Polish trade union delegation is seated in the gallery.
The delegation includes representatives of the Gdańsk, Gdynia and Szczecin shipyards.
To be quite clear, the state aid investigation in these cases has been pending for around four years.
Without even counting the state guarantees from 2002 until now, the Gdynia shipyard received from the Polish state - which means from the Polish taxpayers - aid amounting to around EUR 167 000 per worker.
Even without counting the state guarantees, the total aid received since 2002 by the Gdynia and Szczecin shipyards amount in nominal value to around EUR 700 million and EUR 1 billion respectively.
I have now carefully assessed the restructuring plans submitted by the Polish authorities on 12 September.
We have been working actively to help the Polish authorities come up with a solution that would ensure a viable commercial future for the economic centres of Gdańsk, Gdynia and Szczecin and ensure sustainable jobs.
According to this scenario, the assets of the Gdynia and the Szczecin shipyards would be sold on market terms in several bundles.
They may re-employ even more people than would be the case if the restructuring plans of 12 December were implemented.
The final outcome would probably be positive in two respects: on the one hand, the number of workers left without a job would be lower than foreseen in the restructuring plan submitted by the Polish authorities and, on the other hand, the workers re-employed by the purchasers of the yards' assets would have much more stable working prospects within viable undertakings, because the burden of past debts would have been lifted.
The Commission has raised that possibility with the Polish authorities.
As for Gdańsk, I think there is a good chance of reaching a positive outcome if there remains flexibility and good will on both sides.
You will naturally ask me: why this approach for Gdańsk?
There are two reasons: firstly, Gdańsk has already been sold to a private operator which injected fresh money into it and, secondly, this yard's liabilities for past aid are far more limited compared to the Gdynia and the Szczecin shipyards.
Because the yard has received less aid in the past, we can be less demanding in this respect.
The future of the shipyards and of their workers depends on the Polish authorities' willingness to cooperate with the Commission to quickly find a positive solution in the framework I outlined earlier.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner Kroes, thank you for your presence here today and for addressing the matter of the shipyards, as well as the positive note at the end of your speech.
Polish shipyards have, for a long time, had difficulties in applying these principles.
However, the Commission's negative decision regarding the shipyards will now result in their bankruptcy, and this situation is difficult to accept.
In such a tense economic situation, you cannot simply say 'certain points have not been met, end of story'.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) Madam President, the problem of the Polish shipyards is nothing new.
Therefore, I would like to appeal to the Commission to be as flexible as possible with regard to Gdańsk.
Of course, for our part, we will also take action in Poland to ensure that the Polish Government also acts with determination and flexibility. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I call on the Commission to contribute to safeguarding the future of the shipyards.
It is the only option that I can see in this case.
The option we have is for the Commission to say that there will be State aid, but that, within the framework of this State aid, we want these workplaces to be modernised from an environmental point of view, so as to guarantee the long-term future of the sites and to ensure that workers have good long-term jobs there.
European taxpayers pay several hundred million euros per year for this purpose.
Polish shipyard workers do not want this to happen, they want to stay in their homeland and work in modern, profitable shipyards.
Especially now, at a time when Western European states are pumping tens of millions of euros into their banking systems, without a thought for the principles of free competition, a negative decision from the Commission would be interpreted in Poland as a sign of bad faith. (Applause) Madam President, the time has come for the Commission to review its strategy with regard to shipyards in the European Union.
We still have the shipyards of Viana do Castelo, which are strategic for this whole region and which need support for their modernisation in order to avoid serious new problems.
However, it is the banks that we are helping, while we delay the decision regarding the matter of the shipyards.
While many shipyards in the old Member States of the European Union received state aid, the Gdańsk shipyard, a symbol of the struggle for freedom and human rights, was being destroyed for political reasons.
Commissioner Kroes, creating development opportunties for Polish shipyards will not only secure the livelihoods of thousands of Polish shipyard workers and their families, as well as those employed in related industries.
Since 2005, the European Commission has been asking what the public state aid granted to Polish shipyards has been spent on.
The people responsible for making the wrong decisions in relation to the shipyards should be identified, rather than punishing Polish taxpayers, whose contributions will fund the state aid granted.
I am sure this time will not be wasted. (Applause) (PL) Madam President, everyone in my country expects a positive decision from the Commission.
The closure of the shipyards in Gdynia, Gdańsk and Szczecin will lead to the collapse of an entire sector of the economy.
It will need at least one year, and that is what I am proposing.
One year is not much when the fate of almost 100 000 families hangs in the balance. (Applause) (PL) Madam President, there is growing bitterness and anger in Poland.
The idea of solidarity, which, in the eyes of the people of Poland, was born in the shipyards, in simple terms means that we should all look after each other, unless the Commission believes, like some of the creatures in Orwell's Animal Farm, that all Europeans are equal, but some are more equal than others. (PL) Madam President, I ask the European Commission to accept the restructuring plans for the combined Gdynia and Gdańsk shipyards, and for the Szczecin Shipyard.
The Polish shipyards are European shipyards. (PL) - Madam President, I remember how some fifteen years ago representatives of the Szczecin Shipyard informed me of the huge amounts of aid the EU and Germany had been giving to the German shipbuilding industry because of competition from the Szczecin Shipyards.
It is too easy for the Commission to make a decision that will decide whether the Szczecin and Gdynia shipyards sink or swim.
The therapy would kill the Polish shipyards.
I would like to encourage you to strengthen your sensibility and your imagination, and stand on this new side, because right now the course of history is shifting, and you have the opportunity of being on the good side. (Applause) - (PL) Madam President, the banks and financial institutions have had hundreds of billions of euro made instantly available to them to protect the free market and the European Union.
First of all, I refer to the letter which the Polish delegation in the PPE-DE Group sent to President Barroso to remind him that, behind the iron curtain, shipbuilding was regarded as a Polish speciality.
So it is all the more important in our troubled times to make decisions which will bring stability rather than danger, and that also applies to the Polish shipyards. (Applause) (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, you have put forward a plan which really can become a basis for the successful restructuring of Poland's shipyards.
The Polish Government has already started intensive work on this plan, but the key factor is time.
I have at least two reasons for asking for more time.
Secondly, the current situation affects us all.
Secondly, the support for Poland's shipyards is support for European shipbuilding, just as was the support at one time given to the East German shipbuilding industry.
Thirdly, the levels of state aid that Polish shipyards have received until now, and the amount of aid predicted for the future, are nominal compared with the almost EUR 2 billion in aid reported to have been placed at the disposal of Europes's private banking sector.
What is more, the governments of some Member States are making such hasty decisions on this that they do not even have time to inform the European Commission of them.
The European Commission's suggestions, that the best solution for the Polish shipyards would be to restructure them by setting up separate production companies, is unacceptable, as this would most likely mean dismemberment of the assets of the shipyards, thereby depriving the yards of their ability to build ships. (PL) Madam Commissioner, on the one hand I appreciate your understanding of the historical and moral dimensions of these shipyards.
The point is, that if such a large national industry as shipbuilding were in other hands, would Poland and Europe benefit from this? (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, as in July and September I twice asked a question to which I did not receive a written answer, I would like to ask it orally now.
Polish shipbuilding is not alone in depending on this decision, for the situation of the European Union's shipbuilding industry in the world also depends on it.
But not in Poland.
Poland has confidence in the European institutions.
Unfortunately, if the shipyards are eventually prevented from operating and gradually reforming, Poland, too, may experience a crisis of confidence in the institutions of the European Union, because it is obvious to everyone that there are two measures, two standards: they were different in the case of the former East Germany, and they are different for the banks.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am impressed by honourable Members' involvement with this dossier and I have paid great attention to all the remarks made this evening.
If investors are interested in shipbuilding, as some say they are - and we got that message not only from one member of the government but also from different sides - then they can bid for the assets, and that is what I was underlining.
Please take into account that, as far as the Commission is concerned, the solution could result in viable economic activities in Poland.
However, we badly need a business plan, and that is what I am asking you for.
Assuming that the Gdańsk side of the problem is approached in the way I mentioned, then I will now come to the two other shipyards.
Ms Schroedter, the Polish yards have had a longer transition than the East German yards, and during a booming period of the economy.
The total size of the three shipyards in Poland - Gdynia, Gdańsk and Szczecin - is comparable to the size of the German shipyards prior to their restructuring, and the aid already granted to the Polish shipyards in the period 2002-2008 is also comparable to the aid granted by Germany to its shipyards - around EUR 3 billion.
Whereas the shipyards in Germany were privatised in 1993 and finalised their restructuring in 1995-1996, the Polish shipyards have continued subsidised operations for a very long time, since well before the Polish accession to the EU, and have been bailed out several times since then.
I have mentioned before that now, in 2008, more than four years have passed since the accession of Poland to the EU, and eight years since the first state aid rules were introduced in Poland in 2000 pursuant to the 1994 Association Agreement.
Industry experts already forecast a downturn, an overcapacity in the world market in the two or three years to come.
If Mr Bielan is saying - as I too said in my remarks - we have taken years, then this is because of the economic, social and symbolic importance of the yards.
I dare to defend that, but the best thing we can give to the heroes of the yards is a viable future, and that is what I am asking you for: just a realistic approach, the approach that those heroes deserve.
A question was asked about European shipbuilding.
The Commission, in cooperation with the European shipbuilding industry, is actively implementing an integrated strategy - and we call it 'Leadership 2015' - aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the shipbuilding industry in all the Member States of the European Union.
I would like to say a little more on the questions asked by some of you.
If they are the ones who are the real entrepreneurs and if they are the ones who are interested in those assets, let us go for it.
I think that all those workers have the right to ask us to come up with a viable solution for their future.
Just deliver the business plan for Gdańsk.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) Madam President, observing the current activity of the Commission concerning the Polish shipyards has reaffirmed my conviction that Poland should not have joined the EU under the conditions offered a few years ago.
This applies not just to the shipyards, but to many other areas, such as agriculture.
