I appeal to my fellow Members, therefore, to support my request in this instance, since my sole intention is to help solve this problem – which, incidentally, has arisen through no fault of my own – in a constructive fashion. – Following the referral back to committee, I have received a request from the PPE-DE Group and the GUE/NGL Group to include, after the debate on the Brok report on Wednesday, Council and Commission statements on the forthcoming EU-Russia summit, including the situation in Chechnya, without motions for resolution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the EU – Russia Summit is to be held next week and in Chechnya there have just been elections, which, with the best will in the world, cannot be regarded as quite the sort of presidential elections we in the West are accustomed to.
We have discussed issues much less directly relevant to us in separate debates here.
With all due respect to these other proposed debates, they are rather less relevant to us in terms of their subject matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that anyone could suspect our group or me personally of being opposed to a debate on Chechnya.
Opting for this solution would, I think, enable us both to express our views on Chechnya and also say what we think about the bloody repression in Bolivia, which, I would remind you, has led to the deaths of almost eighty people in the space of one week. (2) &#160;&#160; Mr President, last Friday, there was an extremely serious incident in Rome, prejudicial to freedom of information in the European Union: a judge ordered the searching of the premises of a major newspaper and the seizing of news material.
The Italian judiciary’s decision failed to take into account the decisions of the Council of the European Union and of the European Court of Justice, which have ruled on a number of occasions in favour of journalists’ right not to reveal their sources.
I call for the European Parliament to intervene in this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had the opportunity to be in Romania last week, where I observed the preparations for the referendum.
Allow me to say that the referendum has made a mockery of the application of democratic rights.
It would be a good thing if we were to act on this, since Romania has, after all, applied to become a Member State. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on Thursday, 9 October, you informed us of the fact that you had received the common position on the revision of legislation on medicines.
The Public Health Ministers of the ten accession countries recently lodged a complaint against the common position and against the way in which it has been arrived at.
This new legislation is a slap in the face for the governments and peoples of the ten new Member States.
I therefore urge you, in these special circumstances, to seek the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Security and Defence Policy. &#160;&#160; – That will have to go through the appropriate procedures.
You have correctly identified the route that needs to be followed in order to deal with the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am delighted to see that at the European Council meeting in Brussels last week, the 25 Heads of State and Government joined together in congratulating His Holiness, Pope John-Paul II on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of his Pontificate.
I wanted to draw your attention to this point: it is essential that we have European legislation in the field of pharmaceuticals as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in recent days, 22 people drowned off a Sicilian island, Lampedusa.
We agree with that, but we can only lament the fact that the Presidency has not be able to overcome this reluctance and achieve something more effective in the summit conclusions than a study on the relationship between legal and illegal immigration, which will certainly be useful as a study but is a wholly inadequate instrument if Europe is to respond properly to the tragedy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, with the change in funding for the European documentation networks and the closure of the documentation departments in the representations in the Member States, which are being merged with the corresponding departments of the European Parliament, there is a problem with informing and updating European citizens.
But let me assure you that this concern is very much in hand in the Bureau.
There is an active and determined policy to focus on the issues you have touched on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had hoped to catch your eye a bit earlier because this concerns next week's agenda, but I hope you will agree to take the point now.
Having worked in the automobile industry for nearly 30 years, I have tremendous sympathy with the workers in Genk and many other employees including those, in my own constituency, who are involved in restructuring of this kind.
That would allow colleagues with an interest in Genk to make their points.
These dossiers are still at a standstill.
Yes, there is a problem, but that problem is not in this Parliament, it is with the Council and the Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in the European Union there is a network of so-called rural , which basically provide European citizens involved in this issue in rural areas with information on agricultural policies.
There are 138 in collaboration with public and private bodies, none of them profit-making, and they have been very surprised by a decision of the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Press and Communication, of 29 September, which withdraws the aid they were receiving to meet the operating costs of these rural centres or .
In all events, they will come up against intensified reaction by the workers and our peoples in general. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to focus my fellow Members’ attention on a certain important question of major significance for the future of this institution: the matter of the Members’ Statute.
I understand that last week the Committee of Permanent Representatives referred Parliament’s proposal for a new Statute back to Parliament for further debate.
I would now like to ask here in plenary how Parliament intends to proceed from here so that we may have a new, more transparent and coherent Statute approved before the elections, and what procedure it intends to use to debate this issue so that we may switch to a new and even better system in the forthcoming parliamentary term after the European Parliament elections.
I would like to hear your opinion, as President, on the matter. &#160;&#160; – And so you shall, but not immediately.
Moreover, when, I wonder, will we ourselves, the Members of this Parliament, observe at least a minute’s silence for these poor souls who were looking for a better life in our countries? &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like, as one Member has already done, to draw your attention to a letter that has been sent to the various Info-Points Europe, informing them that they are to lose their funding from the Commission.
In fact, at the very moment of enlargement, on the eve of a crucial year for Europe, essential and vital resources are being withdrawn from our best information relays.
We must also note that this stands in complete contradiction to the new information strategy that was adopted in 2002.
We can then come back to the colleagues who have asked these questions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on Saturday afternoon once again thousands of people filled the streets of San Sebastian in a massive response to the arrest of eight prestigious members of the Basque cultural world, in what could be considered a new round of repression aimed at the two main pillars of Basque society: its language and culture.
The defencelessness of those working to promote the Basque language and culture clearly shows the authoritarian character of the so-called young Spanish democracy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it never ceases to amaze me that a Member of this House, who belongs to an organisation declared illegal as a result of being an extension of the terrorist group ETA, who is subject to legal proceedings in France, who is apparently using the funds allocated to honourable Members in an irregular fashion, should, taking advantage of his status as a Member of this Parliament and protected by the freedom that implies – a freedom over which the terrorist group ETA rides roughshod on a daily basis – try to justify the unjustifiable.
That is something you should convey to the newly elected president, Ilham Aliyev, who is also Vice-President of the Council of Europe.
That would be very useful because they listen to us in Europe – they want to be a part of Europe. &#160;&#160; – I am happy to do that. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, various Nobel Prizes have been awarded recently to scientific and literary luminaries, but one in particular deserves a mention here.
But I am sorry, Mr Salafranca, I have no problems outside Spain.
Furthermore, it is shameful, Mr Gorostiaga, that you should enjoy the freedom associated with being a Member of this House – a freedom over which your friends from ETA ride roughshod every day – and that you use it to make your totally disgraceful outbursts. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0343/2003) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Council common position with a view adopting a European Parliament and Council Regulation concerning monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the Community (Forest Focus) (8243/01/03 – C5-0292/2003 – 2002/0164(COD)) (Rapporteur: Encarnación Redondo Jiménez). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, when approximately a year ago we voted here on this Parliament's report at first reading and we achieved a sufficient majority to support the thesis I was advocating, I felt as if I had the strong support of the whole of Parliament.
I was advocating that this Parliament needed to demonstrate political firmness in relation to the proposed Forest Focus Regulation, which the Commission was presenting as a replacement for the two former regulations on pollution: combating pollution in Europe and combating fires in Europe.
The proposed law presented by the Commission added to these two objectives – ‘pollution’ and ‘fires’ – the study of biodiversity, climate change and carbon retention.
The Commission said that all of this had to be done with less money – with EUR 51 million – and that, furthermore, the prevention aspect of combating fires would be transferred to rural development.
In this way, this Parliament abandoned codecision for a mere opinion, without being able to control whether these programmes were going to be complied with or not, since they were being left to the Member States and were being transferred to a regulation whose control by Parliament was reduced to an opinion.
Article 13 sets a budgetary increase, not the amount we would have liked, but sufficient so that we could reach agreement amongst all the Member States, increasing it to EUR 61 million until 2006; in Article 18, Member States are urged to present an assessment of the Regulation before the end of 2005, and the Commission to present new proposals from 2006.
It was very difficult for the countries of the European Union, especially those which have been ablaze this summer – in all corners of Europe, but essentially the countries of the south – to understand why prevention should not be included in this regulation.
For this reason, since early summer, the Commission services have adopted a flexible approach in response to concerns expressed at the first reading stage by Parliament and the Member States.
At last, we can exercise our full power of codecision because in 2006 we will also be evaluating what we have achieved.
At the same time, Parliament has also been prepared to increase programme funding as part of the intergroup compromise.
As part of the compromise, too, the programme will cease at the end of 2006.
The Commission should put forward a proposal to continue with action to protect forests from atmospheric pollution and other phenomena that weaken them.
Fire prevention activities must be carried out by means of regional programmes in order to be able to address the most outstanding problems of each region and so that the activities involved are suited to forest types and climate.
It is also important that the people in a region can become involved in these programmes.
My group and I are going to support her, and I would also like to congratulate Mrs Wallström on her speech.
We also wish to remind you that the measures in this programme are transitional ones and that the countries that have not invested in fire prevention would be well advised to do so before the review in 2006.
Reforestation, for example, should take the form of restoring the forest biodiversity that was damaged, if not totally destroyed, in the fires this summer. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use this speech to welcome the progress made in the interinstitutional dialogue and the compromise which I believe has been reached.
These amendments concentrated on three central concerns of this new Forest Focus programme: the need to pay due attention to preventing forest fires, the need for the budgetary framework to be more open, and the need to pay clearer attention to the principle of subsidiarity.
We supported the bulk of the amendments, therefore, both those tabled by the Commission and the other proposals by certain fellow Members of this House, some of whom are members of my own group.
In September the European Parliament insisted on the need to continue pursuing an effective prevention policy against forest fires, and reaffirmed that the Community should promote monitoring and prevention measures, especially within the framework of the Forest Focus Regulation.
It insisted on the need to reallocate to the European Union the same financial resources approved under Regulation&#160;No&#160;2158/92 on protection of the Community’s forests against fire, particularly with a view to financing appropriate measures to prevent forest fires, such as lines, firebreaks, forest trails, access points and water-points.
Allow me to make it clear that we fully support that part of the regulation concerning protection against forest fires.
Finland and Sweden together account for 40% of European forestry production, and that is the backbone of the biggest export business in these countries.
The Member States’ national forestry strategies and laws must be all-embracing, and the individual forest owner must have control of what he rightfully owns. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, as you know, countless regions of southern Europe were severely affected this summer by unprecedented forest fires.
We will in fact be asked to vote tomorrow on two amendments that partially meet our concerns.
It is excellent that the European Union is taking this important step to improve the condition of our forests and support a better and diverse forestry policy in all the Member States.
For the Nordic countries, and Finland in particular, forests are especially important for recreation and the economy but also for nature conservation.
The forests in the EU Member States are very different from one another owing, for example, to local natural conditions.
The social significance of forests and the principal reason they are needed also vary in different parts of Europe.
I am glad that Parliament has now also given attention to forest fire prevention in addition to monitoring activities.
In my opinion, the Standing Forestry Committee should be involved in this programme and take account of coordination of forestry issues at EU level.
This is important, just as Amendment No 15 regarding compliance with the principle of subsidiarity is, because they both highlight the differences between forests and our regional and climatic conditions.
In future we have to stress the primary importance of national measures and the rules relating to the management of forests.
In this respect I also want to support the view of my colleague, Peder Wachtmeister, that the sustainable use of forests and decision-making in forestry matters are above all the responsibility of the forest owner. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, our forests are an invaluable and irreplaceable part of the heritage of humanity and of all living things.
The Forest Focus Regulation seeks to draw on the experience of two previous regulations in order to create a long-term monitoring system designed to assess the state of the European Union’s forest ecosystem.
The Commission promised that when it presented its communication on forestry strategy, as it is scheduled to do by the end of this year, it would include a proposal on plans for protection against fires.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, our particular sensitivity to the issue of fires is understandable.
The images of last summer’s towering infernos, which left a swathe of destruction in their wake, especially in Portugal, are still very vivid for us.
The memory of such flames cannot easily be snuffed from the mind, or from the landscape. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, forest fires are indeed a scourge which destroys thousands of hectares of woodland throughout the European Union every year, especially in southern countries.
As we know, not only was this year no exception to that rule, but the situation reached tragic proportions in southern countries, and especially in Portugal, where 20&#160;people died, 45&#160;000 lost their sources of income, and it is estimated that more than 11% of woodland was consumed by the fires.
That resolution asked not only for more funds to bolster the Forest Focus programme, but also for the inclusion in that programme of adequate prevention measures consonant with the actions laid down in Regulation&#160;No&#160;2158/92, which expired on 31&#160;December&#160;2002.
I would also like to remind you that not all the fire prevention measures included in that regulation are covered by the forestry-related actions laid down in the recent Regulation&#160;No&#160;1999/1257, on rural development.
I mention this because continuity is important in relation to prevention measures, which are even more urgent under the present circumstances.
The rapporteur rightly reiterates her insistence on including the prevention-related amendments tabled at first reading and then rejected by the Council.
When dealing with an issue as important as forests, one of Europe’s treasures, one cannot consider skimping on a few pennies.
With a view to financing these prevention measures, therefore, I have already proposed increasing the amounts in the European Union’s general budget, by means of the financial perspective for the period up to 2006.
This summer's events – with such huge forest fires in Portugal and other countries – demonstrate that.
A second reading agreement is needed to ensure the continuity of the measures which have been carried out over a period of more than 15 years.
The compromise approach would give the European Commission the time to reflect – together with Member States and stakeholders – on ways in which forest fire risks might be minimised, and on the possibilities of improving prevention measures in the most appropriate way after 2006.
In this sense, I would encourage Members of the European Parliament to support the compromise proposal which aims to reach broad consensus.
I should like to thank both the rapporteur and all Members once again. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
As a consequence, where they are placed at risk bathers may contract gastro-enteritis, ear or eye infections, or even more serious illnesses.
This directive has performed particularly well, and nowadays almost 95% of Europe's bathing waters conform to the quality standards it laid down, as opposed to only 60% ten years ago.
The current bathing water directive is based on health and hygiene standards from the 1960s and these have since evolved.
Social standards have also changed and these days public information and involvement have become cornerstones of good governance.
The legislative-style approach at the heart of the 1976 directive is outdated, since it is based only on monitoring and on measuring, not on the proactive and sound management of bathing waters.
These are just a few of the reasons why the Commission organised the long and thorough public and stakeholder consultation and came up with a new proposal for a bathing water directive which seeks a common and comparable level of protection for all EU waters and all bathers, whether in major tourist resorts or in traditional local bathing sites.
Since 1976, which is before the European Parliament was directly elected for the first time, our thinking about the environment, but also about issues such as subsidiarity, has, of course, fundamentally changed.
We should, therefore, question whether the Union should, in fact, decide about what the quality of bathing water should be, whether Europe is better equipped than the Member States to do this, and whether there is a cross-border effect.
My own group does not agree with this and has therefore tabled an amendment.
After all, in the directive, reference is made to the interests of tourism, but this also touches upon an internal market directive, while surely, as everyone knows, we are dealing here with a directive that should actually protect public health.
In actual fact, I am wondering whether it is not simply the case that we are keeping this directive, not because of a need, but simply because it is there.
In this context, the system of smileys, for example, proposed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, strikes me as excellent.
The public health effect is therefore not achieved by prescribing higher standards.
Where, for example, are all those sick tourists now on which these higher standards are based?
The question is whether we have found a solution to a problem or whether we have created a problem for a solution that was there all along.
My group shares the Commission’s intention to improve the quality of bathing water.
Bathing should be promoted as a sensible leisure activity, as should the use of bathing waters for tourism in all our Member States.
It is evident from what is now many years of experience that the greatest dangers to human health when bathing are presented by faecal matter finding its way into bathing waters as a result of inadequate treatment of waste water or from stock rearing.
The new rules are intended to reduce from 19 to 2 the number of parameters to be measured and to treat intestinal enterococci and as leading indicators; these two standards are to be made substantially more rigorous, but, by way of contrast, chemical parameters are disregarded and are no longer to be measured, as they are governed by other directives.
These factors would also reduce the costs involved in implementing the directive in the Member States.
I should also like to say thank you to the Commission, which I think has come up with a very balanced proposal for the new bathing water directive which takes account of developments over the last 26 years.
A lot has happened in the 26 years since the first bathing water directive was drafted.
The last thing I want to emphasise is that a majority of us in the committee reached the view that the bathing beaches or bathing waters concerned must be those that attract large numbers of bathers so that, in this case too, we support the Commission’s definition of what kind of bathing waters we are talking about.
The second proposal to which I wish to draw attention is Amendment No 76 concerning the definition of bathing water.
It is a definition that would lead to the authorities having to go out on a daily basis to count the number of bathers on the beaches.
There would have to be more than 100 bathers a day for at least 20 days a year.
First of all, it would involve giving unduly detailed direction to the Member States in a way that would be entirely contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
I would say that, if this proposal is adopted, we shall simply be a laughing stock throughout Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the quality of bathing water has improved.
The water is better and cleaner in the Netherlands and in the rest of Europe.
A new bathing water directive is now before us with less red tape, with only two parameters left, but with stricter standards, which is to be welcomed.
The amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy are good, except for Amendment No 19.
After all, even with these new standards in place, 1 in 20 bathers fall ill, so the standards are certainly not too high.
This is why the placing of signs with information at the relevant locations – although labour-intensive in terms of maintenance – is the best solution, because it will reach the highest number of bathers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly on the conclusion in his explanatory statement.
I think that the directive should definitely be revised in this area.
There are also major discrepancies in Europe.
However, if we want to protect all recreational water users who ingest water at European level, then I think we are going one step too far, even if I would want to give these tourists, these recreational water users, these bathers nothing but the best quality.
With these higher standards, I think that many of our bathing waters will no longer receive the 'bathing water' label, at any rate not in the Netherlands.
The question remains as to how we take account of the fact that bathing waters and bathing facilities vary from one European region to another.
It has already been said here that it is quite difficult to say what a large number actually means: a large number where there are a lot of people, or a large number where, for example, there are 20 kilometres of beach per inhabitant and public right of access?
My friend, Torben Lund, here thought it absurd to have a proposal that defines a bathing site according to how many bathers go there, and according to which the authorities must define it as a bathing site.
I hope that this kind of flexibility is brought to the directive in the proper way, but at the same time I hope that these issues of public health with regard to the citizens of Europe are also taken proper account of in this directive. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, what constitutes good quality bathing water, and who should decide?
It is not up to the directive to set out the cases in which bathing will be prohibited, as this decision should be the exclusive competence of the Member States.
That is why we will be supporting the proposal to reject the directive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur on the work that has been done on this sensible and welcome proposal.
We should look at places where bathing actually takes place and where that is so designated by a Member State.
We should also be careful to give proper attention to the cost/benefit analysis because some quite large sums of money are involved – the cost to my country would be EUR 8.8 billion, albeit over 25 years.
We should bear in mind that public information is important if we are going to have public confidence, and the blue flag has gained that confidence: we should be careful not to damage it.
In south-west Scotland, the Irvine and Aire river valleys are particularly susceptible during times of heavy rainfall – in flash floods during the summer months, for example – to failing to meet the micro-biological standards for good quality during those few, rare days.
The Council of European Municipalities and Regions has also backed Amendment No 19, and local government wants to see bathing water quality improve by introducing more flexibility into bathing water rules. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commission’s proposal contains some good features in the form of more stringent requirements concerning bacteria content, with a maximum of 500 Escherichia coli per 100 ml and 200 intestinal enterococci per 100 ml.
I am unable to support the report’s proposal to include other leisure activities in the definition of the framework for the bathing water directive. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is clear that the increasing mobility of Europeans, tourism and, let us face it, bathing habits, mean that the beaches of Europe, the beaches of my country, Spain, which 50 years ago were half empty, have now filled up.
I therefore believe that the Commission is right to propose – and of I believe it is extremely timely – this greater control of bathing waters, better information for users and also improvements in the quality of those waters in cases where it is advisable or necessary.
The relationship between risks of various infections and water quality has been demonstrated beyond all doubt.
Introducing these parameters would enormously complicate the application of the directive and, furthermore, would make the framework directive which already deals with these issues redundant.
Finally, on another issue which has been debated, in relation to parameters, I entirely agree with the use of those parameters indicated by the WHO and I fully support my group’s position. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the proposal for the new bathing water directive that we are now discussing unfortunately has the same fundamental defect as the previous directive, namely a very vague definition of what is meant by bathing water.
It is thus unsatisfactory in terms of legal certainty for the new directive not to contain simple and clear information, either.
Furthermore, we have the legal right of access to private land, which in principle means that everyone residing in our country has access to these bathing waters.
It should thus be possible to apply the directive throughout the EU. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to make some comments on the amendments tabled.
First of all, I thank Members for their comments, which I read as support for the basic philosophy and structure of the proposal.
Actually, both Parliament and Council also confirmed their support in negotiating the Sixth Environmental Action Programme in 2002.
The Commission cannot accept narrowing the scope of the directive via Amendments Nos 5 or 76.
People in northern or non-tourist regions also have the right to bathe in safety.
Although the Commission appreciates that many MEPs have attempted to improve the integration of the water framework and bathing water directives, the Commission cannot agree with all amendments concerned.
In some cases, waters can be of excellent quality for bathing without having a good ecological status.
Nevertheless, the Commission accepts in principle Amendment No 32, which extends the bathing water profile by adding elements such as hydrological characteristics in relation to the water framework directive.
However, it must be kept in mind that the scales of both directives are very different.
The water framework directive applies to river basins, whereas the bathing water directive has a very local scope.
The Commission believes that the basis of good bathing water management is found within a well documented and updated bathing water profile.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept amendments like 43 and 44, which reduce the knowledge and control of bathing waters.
The Commission welcomes Amendments Nos 8, 11, 14, 17, 18, 20, 34, 35 and 36 concerning bathing water management, public participation and information to the public.
However, the Commission would prefer to leave to subsidiarity the choice of symbols and logos depicting bathing water quality and therefore does not want to take on board Amendments Nos 21 and 27.
On Amendment No 19, I would like to say the following: the Commission is open to a certain amount of flexibility on bathing waters which suffer from predictable and manageable short-term contamination.
Amendments Nos 62 and 66 both increase the risks of illness from 5% to 9%.
The Commission is aware of the need to adapt legislation to technical and scientific progress and welcomes Amendments Nos 28, 29 and 30 on the revision and adaptation of the directive.
In conclusion, the Commission can accept, to a greater or to a lesser degree, 32 amendments of the 76 amendments tabled.
The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the report (A5-0290/2003) by Guido Sacconi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on a monitoring mechanism of Community greenhouse gas emissions and the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol (COM(2003) 51 – C5-0031/2003 – 2003/0029(COD)). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, honourable Members, I address you today in the knowledge that a compromise package aimed at securing a first reading agreement is on the table.
Accurate monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions is vital to give us an overview of how effective EU policies are in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and what more needs to be done to meet our Kyoto targets.
This decision is an important further step in implementing the Kyoto Protocol and in ensuring that the Community delivers on all its commitments under the Protocol.
The proposal for a decision on which we are about to vote therefore establishes the necessary framework for ensuring the Community and its Member States meet the requirements on emissions reporting and accounting through an improvement of the quality and accuracy of the information provided on policies and measures adopted and on emissions and removals of all greenhouse gases, including methodological aspects.
In addition, there are two provisions that are central to compliance with the commitments under the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol.
Tomorrow’s vote will oblige the Member States to calculate and send the Commission data on actual and estimated gas emissions by 15 January each year, so that the actual progress made can be assessed and the Community can draw up annual reports in accordance with its international obligations.
The few amendments your rapporteur has made to the proposed legislation are aimed at rendering the mechanism even more binding and effective, especially in the light of the latest, barely encouraging, data that show an increase in greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union for the second year running.
I believe that it will also be a clear political signal with a view to a major event, next December in Milan, when we hope that more of the international community will ratify the Kyoto Protocol. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, global warming is a phenomenon that we are all experiencing on a daily basis.
The heatwave, which affected us severely this summer, is a reminder of how serious the problem of greenhouse gas emissions is.
The proposal for a decision, to be put to the vote during this part-session, is an important piece in the European Union's regulatory jigsaw on greenhouse gas emissions.
Nevertheless, I would draw Members' attention to a specific point, the flexibility prescribed by the Kyoto Protocol for determining the reference year for monitoring certain gases.
That apart, I would strongly encourage Members to vote in favour of this text, which provides a reasonable legal framework and an appropriate timetable, combining flexibility and efficacy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, right at the start I wish to thank my colleague, Guido Sacconi, for his excellent levels of cooperation in drawing up the report we are discussing.
The fact that we can hopefully conclude the debate on the directive at first reading shows that the European Union wants to work seriously to slow down climate change.
The Kyoto Protocol lays down the obligations of the Parties to report on emissions.
The decision on reporting in the EU, which goes back 10 years, has been an important basis for allowing us to reliably verify any negative trend with regard to emissions and create a framework to reverse that trend.
It will be important to adopt the grand total of 48 amendments contained in the compromise package in tomorrow’s vote so that the Member States can start to prepare for national implementation without delay.
Under the Kyoto Protocol emissions in the first Kyoto commitment period will be examined on the basis of a five-year average.
I would hope that the Community, for example the European Environment Agency, will also start to publish trends in emissions on the basis of a five-year average.
These responsibilities lie primarily with the Member States and it is time, as I said, that we assumed our responsibility not only for the health of our population today, but for the protection of our environment for tomorrow's generations as well.
Last week's report indicated that three countries – Ireland, Spain and Italy – accounted for almost half of the five hundred infringements of environmental laws in the European Union over the last five years.
This is an example of how Member States, having approved directives and transposed them, are failing to ensure that they are implemented. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like, personally and on behalf of my group, to congratulate the rapporteur and those of my fellow Members who sit on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, who have managed to work together efficiently to table these compromise amendments with the aim of having this report adopted in one single reading.
I would also pay tribute to the Commission, which is proposing a more binding mechanism for implementing the commitments that we made in Kyoto in 1997.
I might remind you that the Protocol, which was adopted the same year and ratified by the European Union in 2002, sets objectives in terms of emissions that the contracting parties must achieve by 2012: a reduction of 8%.
Latest studies to date show that, unfortunately, total emissions have been on the increase since 2000 and, if we are to believe the forecasts of the European Environment Agency for 2001, overall emissions in the European Union of the six gases deemed to be responsible for climate change are up by 1% on the year 2000.
This proves that we need to strengthen the legal monitoring instrument that was implemented in the European Union through a decision in 1993, and that is the purpose of the proposal being examined and debated today.
It confirms that the Member States are responsible individually for the conditions under which they participate in the Kyoto mechanism.
That is a good thing, provided that effective coordination and proper monitoring are guaranteed.
It is the future of our earth that is at stake and all of the measures taken in other existing and future texts need to comply with the framework and standards set out in Kyoto. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the proposal to choose 1990 as the reference year.
This proposal replaces the mechanism in operation since 1993 for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and evaluating progress towards meeting commitments in respect of these emissions.
These proposals reflect the reporting requirements of the Marrakesh Accords to the Kyoto Protocol, including the use of flexible mechanisms and registries.
It is essential to ensure that more information is available concerning the emission levels from within the Member States of the Union.
Evidence is getting stronger that most of the global warming over the last 50 years is attributable to human activities.
We want to see all industrialised countries take urgent action to reduce or limit future greenhouse gas emissions.
The European Union is implementing the European Climate Change Programme, which will ensure that the Union achieves the 8% cut in emissions between 2008 and 2012, which is our political commitment under the Kyoto Protocol.
New rules are necessary for many reasons: scientific progress in the last decade, new elements such as carbon sinks, the transboundary nature of gas emissions and the obvious need for a Community approach and the harmonisation of rules in this area.
In other words, as the European Environment Agency has told us, we need consistency and transparency in reporting on greenhouse gas emissions.
I hope that they are practical and achievable, as regards the various aspects in the proposal.
If they are practical and realistic, then it will be possible to insist on delivery from all Member States, even those that have difficulties in reaching targets in this area.
Ireland has a lot to do in this particular area and anything that can help us to collect our minds and deliver – as we must as a nation – is to be welcomed.
I welcome the proposal before us here today. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, when the European Community signed the Kyoto Protocol, we knew that this commitment would require solid action in future, and the recently adopted European Union emissions trading scheme is a centrepiece of that action.
That is not to say it will be easy for Member States.
In this way, the European Union and the European Community will reaffirm their commitment to the Kyoto Protocol and underline the commitment to put in place the necessary measures in the fight against problems of climate change.
Everything we do to demonstrate that we want and are able to live up to our commitments will also send a signal to the rest of the world – and in particular to a certain country which we want to ratify the Kyoto Protocol as well. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
This proposal is part of the Community's on-going efforts to reduce emissions to improve air quality in order to protect the environment and the health of our citizens.
The objective of this proposal is to tighten emission standards for engines in non-road applications in the light of technological developments and the sector's contribution to emissions to air.
At the same time, the Commission is conscious of the global nature of the market for engines covered by this directive and is aware of the benefits to industry of aligning developments with parallel regulatory proposals in the United States.
It simply defies explanation that the same engine, at the same location, but installed in two different machines, is allowed to produce different levels of emissions.
I am also very glad that it has been possible, even before first reading, to negotiate with the Council a compromise that was brought in jointly by the major political groups and with the support of many Members, with the ultimate objective of avoiding a conciliation procedure.
We want to reduce the emissions from machines that are not road-going, and to do so in several stages.
We are also including railway locomotives in this directive.
This must be done in such a way as to ensure that an incentive is given to the sector to accelerate the replacement process with diesel engines that are cleaner and that meet the prescribed conditions.
The document now states that the proposed package of limit values should be aligned, as far as possible, with developments in the United States so as to offer manufacturers a global market for their engine concepts.
The text now puts back the review date to 2007, which gives much more opportunity for practical experience with after-treatment technology to be achieved before stages IIIB and IV are confirmed.
This is a very important step forward in controlling emissions in a sector not really yet touched.
I think, quite frankly, that the ambitions of Parliament, as expressed by the Committee on the Environment, have exceeded the wishes of the Commission and the Council, particularly with regard to diesel engine trains.
This is an area that we need to revisit at a future time and examine the particular circumstances that exist in the new Member States when they enter the Union.
The Commission did not want to introduce legislation, particularly for those trains and inland waterway vessels, until much later on.
Freight trains and inland waterway vessels use much less energy, simply because resistance is much less significant.
This means that the environmental benefit from freight trains and inland waterway vessels is completely back to what it used to be, something with which we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are delighted. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Lange, we are indeed heirs to a fine tradition in this area of European lawmaking.
I am quite convinced that the reduction of emission values is more expensive in an area as industrialised as Europe than it is in other countries.
Not only do we have to cut pollutants, but we also have to think about reducing CO2 in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol.
We also know that public transport also has to be covered – a sector that makes particular use of rail vehicles.
This way, we can agree on a common denominator. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the proposed compromise is well balanced.
The Commission can accept the proposed compromise amendments in full. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the Commission statement on the demolition of contaminated US warships in the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Commission has received a formal complaint from a Member of this Parliament against the UK, regarding the import of old warships into the United Kingdom.
Let me assure Parliament at the outset that, as European Commissioner for the Environment, I simply do not believe that it makes sense to tow these contaminated ships across the Atlantic to the United Kingdom.
Four ships have already left the United States and nine more are to follow.
I understand that the US authorities have voluntarily agreed not to send these remaining nine ships until March next year.
More generally, and quite apart from this specific case, I am also concerned about the environmental and human health problems related to ship breaking, in particular the implications for non-OECD countries.
The parties to the Basel Convention, which deals with the control and management of hazardous waste including old ships, are meeting this week in Geneva to discuss this issue among others.
What we need to know is why the work was not done in the United States.
All this I have said in order to drop a hint, and I hope that the interpreters understand what I mean by that. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with Commissioner Wallström’s statement.
As Commissioner Wallström said, this is where it is enormously important that the proximity principle should apply.
The ‘polluter pays’ principle should also apply here.
I would like to conclude by re-emphasising that I am very satisfied with your statement, and that I believe that the proximity principle must apply in such a serious case as this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that the campaign that we, together with a few members of our group, have launched will bear fruit.
I am also very pleased with the statement that the Commissioner has made here, which has filled us with hope.
After that, it will be legally possible, against the spirit of the Basel Convention, to ship waste to countries that do not have a sound social or environmental policy.
Moreover, that country has mapped out a course for these high-risk ships, as a result of which other Member States are put at risk.
A list is currently circulating of 144 ships that are ready for scrapping in the South.
On 27 October, the Council of Environment Ministers will be holding a meeting.
It seems to me that the United Kingdom is acting in an extraordinarily irresponsible way in undertaking contracts to have ships of this kind brought across the Atlantic to be allegedly recycled in British ports.
We are led to believe that something like over 300 tonnes of PCBs and 600 tonnes of asbestos are contained in the four ships that are currently on their way to the United Kingdom.
The Commissioner has also already indicated that she has requested the UK authorities to indicate whether or not they believe they are still in compliance with EU laws.
There is a requirement to have a dry dock basin available for the dismantling of these ships, but it is unlikely that they can be dealt with in 180 days and indeed there is no dry dock basin available for the recycling of these ships.
This means, for the conservation of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna, that any plan or project not directly connected with, or necessary for the management of, the site, but which is likely to have a significant effect thereon – either individually or in combination with other plans or projects – shall be subject to appropriate assessment of its implications on the site.
These are the facts.
The Commissioner should be asking what is going to happen to the 100 and more ships that are leaving EU waters this year to be dumped and destroyed in the Third World in a totally unacceptable manner, rather than making remarks about things being done properly by the British. &#160;&#160; . – Mr Bowe, that was exactly the point I made!
This is part of the much bigger picture.
That is why I have written to both the UK Government and authorities and also to the US, in order to gather the correct information.
What I have been able to find out so far is that these 13 vessels are part of the national defence reserve fleet administered by the Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration (MARAD).
I also understand that all these ships were built between 1945 and 1967, so are between 36 and 58 years old.
These ships are owned by the United States military administration and are no longer in operation.
MARAD has reported many of the ships to be in a deteriorating condition.
That is what I have been able to find out so far.
If we know that facilities exist, according to the proximity principle, in the United States, then why not send experts in the other direction.
That seems less dangerous.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0336/2003) by Mrs&#160;De Sarnez, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the Council common position adopting a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a programme for the enhancement of quality in higher education and the promotion of intercultural understanding through co-operation with third countries (Erasmus Mundus) (2004-2008) (8644/1/2003 – C5-0294/2003 – 2002/0165(COD)). &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now been working together for two years on the birth of Erasmus Mundus.
I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission, the Council and all of my fellow Members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport for the work that has been accomplished.
By adopting the Erasmus Mundus programme for the period 2004-2008, the European Union will be creating a new instrument of exchange and cooperation in the field of higher education, with a view to forging links between European universities and creating a genuine European Higher Education Area, which alone will make it possible to attract students, teachers and researchers from across the world.
The first action consists of creating 250 European Masters Courses, known as 'Erasmus Mundus Masters Courses', with the label and support of the European Union.
The students following these Masters Courses will have to pursue their studies in at least two of the three associated universities.
The second action consists of creating Erasmus Mundus scholarships for 4&#160;200 students coming to Europe from third countries.
The third action focuses on teaching staff.
One thousand lecturers or researchers from throughout the world will be able to visit European universities for teaching or research assignments of an average of three months.
The fifth and final action is to promote European higher education on the world stage.
To publicise Erasmus Mundus throughout the world, the European Union will make financial support available for international promotion campaigns and for the provision of services that make information available to third-country students, thus facilitating their access to European universities.
First priority: the name of the programme, initially entitled Erasmus World, has become Erasmus Mundus, making it easier for people to identify it with the European Union.
Second priority: to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity, we have given students the opportunity to learn at least two of the languages spoken in the countries where their universities are situated.
The Education Council proposed allocating this programme EUR&#160;180&#160;million.
This is also – and I think that everyone would agree – an excellent initiative, which, I must confess, is among those that are closest to my heart.
It seeks to make European higher education more attractive throughout the world and also here, in Europe; it seeks to enhance its quality, thanks to the European Masters’ courses, which will link several universities from different countries on our continent and which will be open to students and academics initially from here at home and later from the whole world, on the basis of the award of scholarships.
In addition, I should like to congratulate Parliament and the Council on their efforts to reach a consensus – an important consensus, because it will enable us to accelerate the procedure and launch the programme as planned in 2004.
It will be up to the academics, students and teachers to really make it work. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Reding, we have been in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Media and Sport until now, where we voted on three very complicated reports.
In doing so she achieved what we wanted to achieve; we will be able to start the Erasmus Mundus programme at the beginning of 2004.
We put further emphasis on language learning and that is a very important point because the students who come here study in three different countries and we expect them to try to learn at least two of the languages of these countries.
I see Erasmus Mundus as a marvellous way of continuing Socrates-Erasmus, and I believe that we will make this programme a great success in 2004, the very year that the European elections are taking place.
I hope that in so doing and in showing what we are capable of, we will make this a real attraction in the European Union and beyond.
These students, coming from outside the EU, will be able to study in three places in Europe; they will assimilate the cultural diversity of the European Union, they will learn the languages and they will carry Europe’s message abroad.
Moreover, if you think of the world today and the considerable number of large countries who, for reasons of international uncertainty, give the impression of being closed off, the fact that it is precisely under such conditions that Europe should choose to open up completely is of exceptional significance in our view.
In addition, Mr&#160;President, we thought it was very important to tighten up the wording on the learning of two foreign languages in this context.
Where the Union's language policy is concerned, we have often protested in this Chamber about those governments who were not making it compulsory to learn two foreign languages in their countries.
We will exert all the pressure we can in support of this policy and we are pleased to have found an opportunity to do so here.
Finally, I should like to say that opening up European culture to students from throughout the world seems to me to be a wonderful initiative. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, we celebrated the enrolment of the one millionth Erasmus student.
I should nevertheless like to make an observation with regard to this report.
By giving students from the developing countries the opportunity of acquiring learning within the EU, we can help them disseminate this knowledge in their own countries.
This requires sound cooperation among European universities and the universities from the developing countries, which must have the broadening of knowledge and experience of students and lecturers as a priority. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to present my warmest congratulations to the rapporteur for her excellent work.
By covering postgraduate education, this Erasmus Mundus programme will be a very useful addition to the existing Erasmus programme, which, as you know, promotes respect and intercultural understanding as well as dialogue between our different peoples.
I belong to a people, the Catalan people, which does not necessarily coincide with the French and Spanish states, and I am pleased to recall here that the Erasmus Mundus programmes will foster mutual understanding between peoples, not only European peoples, but peoples from all over the world.
Catalonia – since that is what I was talking about – hosts many students from throughout Europe.
Anyone who is concerned about the quality of education within the European Union, at whatever level, will be delighted that the Council and Parliament have reached agreement to start a programme whose only goal is to improve the quality of higher education in the Member States.
I am therefore particularly pleased that the Council and Parliament, in their common position on the Erasmus Mundus programme, are asking special attention for the promotion of the knowledge of languages of students both within and outside of the European Union.
By offering students in the Erasmus programme the opportunity to learn a minimum of two languages that are spoken in the countries where the colleges of higher education are based, we may be able, in time, to reverse the pernicious trend that we notice mainly in the large Member States.
I am therefore stressing that it is not only students from third countries who should be encouraged to have a command of at least two EU languages.
Finally, the care taken over linguistic matters and the principle of cultural diversity, the quality label and coordination between higher education and professional training, are also important.
For now, it should be noted with approval that, in terms of higher education, Europe now has at its disposal yet another extremely useful international tool, which has raised the hopes of many, and justifiably so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Reding, it is encouraging that we are able to initiate two new educational programmes today, which, although they perform different functions and tasks, have a common goal, that is to say to make Europe more attractive and thereby to arouse greater interest in Europe across the world.
Close cooperation between various European universities will make it possible to increase quality and increase international competitiveness.
The compromise on the financial framework of EUR&#160;230 million is just that – a compromise and no more – and I believe that this programme will only succeed in achieving its ambitious goal if all parties involved –&#160;the European Union, Member States and universities&#160;–&#160;accept these challenges and do their bit.
The Erasmus Mundus Programme can only be passionately supported.
It is precisely because the programme is open to students from third countries that Europe can distinguish itself further in the field of higher education.
In an age of globalisation, there is competition for the best products, the best ideas and last but not least, for the best brains.
With EUR&#160;230 million instead of the proposed EUR&#160;180 million, Erasmus Mundus will have a sound financial basis.
What we have achieved is creditable, but the current commitments and the new initiatives are altogether inadequate when set against the Lisbon objectives.
Each year the EU gets around 100&#160;000 fewer new students than the United States.
I believe that, in five years’ time, when Erasmus Mundus is well and truly under way, that figure will have decreased.
The purpose of the programme is to improve the quality of European higher education by attracting more students and skills and know-how to Europe.
Cooperation with universities in third countries is just as important, so that we can, for our part, strengthen the status of higher education in the countries participating in the programme.
I believe the close involvement of the new Member States in this programme will also contribute to their participation in the implementation of other objectives with respect to the EU’s education policy.
Fostering linguistic diversity is one of the fundamental values of the EU, but the aim of the Erasmus Mundus programme is obviously not the teaching of languages.
It is the European Union that must award the ‘Erasmus-Mundus Masters Courses’ quality mark, so that we can then clearly identify a particular higher education, with good proficiency in the languages of at least two Member States.
The vote will take place tomorrow from 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading (A5-0314/2003), on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council adopting a multi-annual programme (2004-2006) for the effective integration of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) in education and training systems in Europe (Learning Programme) (8642/1/2003 – C5-0293/2003 – 2002/0303(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr&#160;Mauro). &#160;&#160; .
The mother of the programme is, without a doubt, the European Commission, which launched the first Learning pilot action with its May 2000 communication, although, at that time, the action was not financed by its own budget line.
Tomorrow, two years on, thanks to meticulous work characterised by cooperation between the institutions, the first multiannual Learning programme will be put to the vote.
It is always more difficult to identify the father, and a question mark remains in this case too, but I would say that the role belongs equally to Parliament and the Council.
The main objectives are fighting the digital divide through implementing computer literacy methods, promoting virtual campuses, -twinning of schools, promoting and disseminating good practice and cooperation between Community programmes and action instruments promoted at national level.
The programme’s budget was, as I said, increased to EUR 44 million thanks to what I would like to call close cooperation between the institutions.
The first concerns the use of the Internet as a tool to facilitate teaching.
The second concerns the use of technological resources.
The setting up of virtual training rooms, for example, is one way of achieving the goal of exchanges of good practice between teachers in the different Member States, at both methodological and teaching level.
For these reasons, I have attempted to stress in the report that theLearning programme should attach greater importance to finding more effective methods that will help teachers incorporate the use of the Internet into their teaching and encourage the dissemination of good practice in this sector.
Once again, I would like to thank the Commission and all the Commission staff who have contributed to the success of our work. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like first of all to thank Parliament for having made the Learning programme possible, because this programme relies on the results of preparatory and exploratory measures in favour of online training – Learning – that Parliament has voted for ever since 2001.
Parliament's active support will therefore enable us to adopt this programme in record time, less than a year after the Commission tabled its proposal in December 2002.
In fact, we are aware that this training is one of the keys to the programme's success and that all of the Member States are already working on it.
I am grateful to him for enriching the programme in this way.
There is no doubt that we would have preferred a higher amount than that proposed by Parliament, but this has proved to be impossible.
I believe that, on this simple basis, we should tell ourselves that it is better to have a little less money and be able to start implementing a good programme straight away. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Reding, training and education will be a major issue in the Council, the Commission and in this House, and I believe that, if we want to do justice to the -Learning programme, in order to bridge the digital divide between individual countries, regions and generations, then this report has certainly taken a step in the right direction.
I think that it is for the European Union to give a visible impulse in this area, thus starting a chain reaction and again making education a top priority in the Member States, so that it does not fall victim to the cost-cutting that has been the case to date. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mrs Reding, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
There are large discrepancies between the different areas in Europe in terms of the use of information technology in education, and we must ensure that disadvantaged schools are given the incentive to dare take the plunge to Learning.
The Join Multimedia programme run by Siemens is a case in point.
Finally, not only is the quantity important, but the quality should also be superior.
Cooperation between the private and public sector is a necessary step towards a European dynamic knowledge economy, which is, after all, our aim. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur on his speed and efficiency with regard to this programme and also to thank the Commissioner for her initiative in recognising the opportunities offered by information technology.
I think the two more important points, as mentioned by the Commissioner herself in her address, are, firstly, the question of finance: it is vital for any programme that it be properly budgeted for and given the resources to ensure that all can benefit from it.
It is quite interesting when you look at the figures, which show that 70% of the workforce that will be employed in the year 2010 is already at work, but only 20% of the technology which will be used in that year is available at the present time.
It is also quite interesting when looked at in another way: of all the scientists and inventors that have ever existed, 92% are living today.
So the rate of change and the types of change which will take place in the future will be even greater and more vast and our capacity as human beings to cope with that change will be determined by the skills, knowledge and training that we are given in the interim period. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Union’s earlier education programmes are success stories because they are programmes on a human scale.
The general aim of the programme is to improve the quality and accessibility of education and training systems by means of information and communication technologies.
The e-Learning programme is a good example of how pilot projects can claim a place in European Union policy.
Back in 2001 the European Parliament began to support the initiative to promote e-learning and now we hold in our hands a proposal for a five-year action programme.
If networking between twinned schools truly gets under way, schoolchildren in different parts of the EU can get to know other pupils of the same age and learn about their everyday lives.
It is very important that these individual endeavours are made visible and available for others to make use of.
It is a follow-up decision to the decision of 19 December 2002 which, exceptionally, allowed Member States to sign this Convention in the interest of the Community.
The scope of the Convention, which was concluded in 1996 within the framework of the Hague Conference on private international law, is very similar to that of the Council regulation on parental responsibility, which was approved by the Council on 3 October and will apply between Member States as of 1 March 2005.
The new regulation creates a common judicial area in the field of divorce and parental responsibility.
The work of the rapporteur and the responsible committee has thus taken place under considerable time pressure.
The Commission takes note favourably of the amendments proposed and is extremely grateful for these efforts which will enable the Council to adopt this proposal in early November, at the same time as the regulation on parental responsibility, thus ensuring parallelism between the two instruments. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Europe has a duty to continually step up its efforts to establish a harmonised judicial area, in particular for the benefit of the weakest members of society.
Parliament was consulted on this proposal for a Council decision at very short notice – as you reminded us, Commissioner – but the importance of the debate and the issues involved meant that it was willing to comply.
Although the Hague Convention of 1996 is a traditional legal instrument within private international law, it has already been a significant source of inspiration for those drafting the new regulation on parental responsibility.
This new text also extends the scope of Brussels II to all decisions relating to child custody, which should be welcomed given that in many countries, in particular France and Germany, divorces and separations between couples from two different countries are still giving rise to substantial conflict.
Nevertheless, we should not forget that the thorny issue of parental responsibility also arises outside the European Union with regard to third countries.
That is also why, in the same spirit, I support the Commission's proposal to authorise the Member States to accede to the Hague Convention.
I would draw your attention to the fact that the overlap between the scopes of the Convention and the new regulation will, I am sure, make it easier to apply these two instruments in parallel.
The Commission had proposed a very long deadline: 1&#160;March&#160;2005.
They tell me of a lack of access to these children and difficulties in getting the children back once they have been on access visits in another country.
The great value of this particular piece of legislation is that we hope that many countries that, due to their own judicial systems, were unwilling to sign the Hague Convention of 1980 on the transnational abduction of children, will see their way to signing this piece of legislation, thus ensuring the safe and quick return of children who have been abducted.
Even though the rights of children are not enshrined in the Treaty yet – and we hope this will come eventually – we now have several pieces of excellent legislation that should ensure the safety and rights of these children to know both their parents in the event of a marital breakdown.
The fact is that under the Brussels II Convention the decisions made in the court in the country where the child normally lives can be implemented in the country where the abducted child is being held.
The 1996 Hague Convention is an excellent piece of legislation.
I can assure you, Mr President, Mrs Reding and Mrs Hermange, that they will be raising glasses of champagne to us tonight in The Hague.
They have been most anxious to see this matter progress.
We have Brussels II, we have drawn up legislation for the European Union, and our input into this legislation is, in my view, highly creditable.
Yet, at the same time, the Commission allowed this agreement to be discussed and certain things to be deliberated on without informing Parliament or giving it the chance to be involved.
That poses an important institutional question as to what the connection is between the agreement and the European legislative procedure, and what Parliament’s rights are on this matter.
We will, however, raise this question again in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, since it cannot be acceptable for Parliament’s rights to be annulled due to parallel legislation at European and International level.
It is extremely important that the Hague Convention on parental responsibility and the protection of children, which dates back to 1996, is ratified by the rest of the Member States as quickly as possible.
The Hague Convention and, in particular, the Regulation on the recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility, which was adopted at the beginning of the month by the Member States of the European Union, will be a considerable help in settling disputes on custody within Europe.
In Europe we have actually acquired an instrument to help us to reach swift and effective decisions in disputes over custody and enable us to avoid long, expensive and difficult legal proceedings with regard to separations across borders, which are so painful for children.
I am glad and a little surprised to see just how excellent a reception the Regulation has had throughout Europe.
With this Regulation the EU will have, for the first time, an instrument by means of which conflicts arising from different laws in different Member States can be avoided.
The vote will take place tomorrow from 11.30 a.m. (1)
