&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 23 October 2003. &#160;&#160; I should like to take this opportunity to welcome to the official gallery a number of distinguished visitors here with us today.
As you know, this afternoon we shall have our exchange of views with Commissioner Verheugen on the Commission monitoring reports on the Accession States.
I believe that those present in the House are representative.
As one of the budget rapporteurs for 2004 I see myself as a servant of this Parliament whose main responsibility is to defend the decisions taken by this House and, in this case, also those of the Budgets Committee.
My primary objective has been to ensure that there is value for money for the European taxpayer and a desire to maintain the reputation and the dignity of this House in the eyes of the European public.
A study will now be produced, and I hope that when it is finished the Budgets Committee, which spends millions of pounds on very dubious projects ... ...
will realise that it also owes a duty to senior and often ill Members of this House who have given a lot of service, and that those Members are prepared to pay to be in an insurance scheme which is more than any of us, as present Members, are prepared to do.
Let us thus proceed with a healthy respect for our agenda. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too, want to be brief.
Tomorrow’s agenda includes a vote on a resolution on the liberal professions.
Members cannot be expected to come to this Chamber half an hour before midnight tonight just to decide whether or not a debate is to take place.
I invited no group from here to accompany me, but the protocol office of the Bundestag kindly informed colleagues here of my visit.
Of course, Mr Cohn-Bendit, like you, they were not obliged to do so.
First of all, how is it possible to put together a questionnaire presenting a list of threats to peace which includes Israel and the United States and ignores international terrorism,&#160;Palestinian or otherwise?
This moral disarmament is the worst possible news for the future of the Europe that emerges from this opinion poll. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I, too, uphold the concerns, expressed by many Members in this House and elsewhere regarding the survey itself and how it was organised.
I believe that all we Europeans should take action because we must not underestimate this threat of terrorism, although the results of police action, such as the measures of the Italian police that arrested some dangerous murderers&#160;–&#160;or, at least, those accused of murdering Marco Biagi and Massimo D’Antona&#160;–&#160;can be seen as positive signals.
The action which I am calling upon Parliament to take part in should be a united endeavour to combat this disturbing phenomenon across Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I will take the liberty of returning for a moment to the issue of the Eurobarometer survey.
My group has of course discussed the effects that these publications and figures have had.
I would also warn against our approving of opinion polls only when we find their results agreeable.
In any case, they could, for example, lead, as from June, to greater interest in the political sympathies I represent.
I wonder if elections too should not also be abolished and then perhaps the people of Europe also changed as soon as they begin to have negative thoughts or as soon as they apparently hinder the progress of European democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have recently returned from Sri Lanka, where I was continuing my engagement with the peace process at the invitation of those involved.
I found it particularly encouraging, during my visit, that the LTTE or the Tamil Tigers, as they are more popularly known published their proposals for an interim self-governing administration.
Unfortunately, over the last 48 hours, President Chandrika Kumaratunga, who belongs to the opposition party, has sacked four key ministers, suspended the Parliament and declared a state of emergency.
Parliament ought to be recalled back in Colombo.
The European Parliament might well ask that democracy, the rule of law, parliament and government be reinstituted in Sri Lanka. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was surprised and horrified yesterday to read the charges by Amnesty International against Sudan, where a special court has sentenced a sixteen-year-old boy accused of armed robbery to so-called ‘cross amputation’; in other words his right hand and his left foot are to be cut off.
I think, Mr President, that both our Parliament and you personally need to take an initiative and remind Sudan that it has signed the Cotonou Agreement on respect for human rights.
They cannot continue to use Sharia law and these dreadful, horrendous punishments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a serious humanitarian issue on which you need to and, I believe, will intervene.
On 27 July 2003 a tanker, the , with a local pilot at the helm, ran aground at the entrance to the port of Karachi.
In the case of the , the Spanish authorities sought out those responsible on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle, in other words the master of the ship, but not the rest of the crew.
Nonetheless, in the case of the , seven seamen are being held, most of whom are Greek.
We need to intervene in this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to draw your attention to the Rosia Montana Gold Corporation project.
An Australian company has already been using this technique in Baia Mare for almost two years, causing an ecological disaster in the Danube.
In the knowledge that Romania is bound by its commitments as a candidate for accession to the European Union, is it acceptable that recourse to methods of extraction that endanger people and the environment, methods that are now only used in the developing world, should be tolerated in a country that is about to be integrated into the European Union?
I feel that the European Parliament and the European Union should take action with a view not only to getting information and calling for his release but also to protecting the institutions that provide voluntary services in territories where the health situation is absolutely disgraceful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to point out that, on 2&#160;July&#160;2003, the Italian Presidency made a commitment before Parliament to present the moratorium on the death penalty to the United Nations General Assembly.
I urge you, Mr&#160;President, to convey our disappointment to the Presidency and to keep point 3 of our resolution, which provided for the results and assessment to be discussed in any case.
Although these are, I feel, very important, a debate is still called for. &#160;&#160; Indeed, the Italian Presidency is here, listened to your comments and hopes that it can take note of the resolution.
This is one of the few proposals that will directly affect every citizen in the European Union in his or her daily life, and will do so in a very sensitive area, that being money.
That is why it is of the utmost importance that Parliament should handle this issue with all possible care and with a great sense of responsibility.
In the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, we get the impression that the Commission’s proposal does not do justice to the importance of this issue.
That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs has decided on an admittedly extraordinary course of action and recommended to the Commission that it withdraw the proposal, revise it in the light of all these points – there are another thirty of them in my report – and rethink the whole thing before it again comes up for debate.
I know from my extensive contacts in preparing this debate that Commissioner Verheugen is determined to have these reports adopted by the college of Commissioners after he has presented them to this House.
The presence in this House of the representatives of the countries that are going to join the Union next year is a tangible sign of how important that event is.
Indeed, you have carried out a quiet revolution that is taking you into the European Union with your heads held high, proud of your achievements.
The official accession date for the ten new Member States is 1 May 2004, but the prospect of enlargement has already had positive effects.
The Union has succeeded in putting the highest ideals into practice: peace, on which we have founded our Union; democracy, which we defend through all our policies; greater opportunities for economic prosperity and solidarity towards the least-favoured regions and groups.
I am convinced that the accession of the new Member States next year will bring no great problems in terms of implementing the where either the single market or the other Community policies are concerned.
The 10 governments are perfectly aware that any shortcoming in any area would deprive them of the benefits of accession in that sector, in terms of both financial transfers and market access.
If problems still remain after accession, the Commission will do its duty, as it always has, and will take the necessary steps.
Moreover, it is in everyone's interest for the Union to absorb this enlargement as quickly and smoothly as possible because there are many other issues facing the Union and many other goals we must achieve, including the Intergovernmental Conference and the smooth functioning of our institutions in an enlarged Union, the Lisbon strategy, the new Financial Perspective, the completion of the enlargement process and the ring of friends policy the Wider Europe policy.
The accession negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania have moved forward significantly and it is time to think about a framework for finalising them.
These negotiations must be based on the same criteria as those observed by all the other countries, and, of course, in particular, what is known as the principle of own merit.
Indeed, this will be one of the last big decisions that it will fall to my Commission to take in this term of office.
All parties concerned must contribute to this process and the Commission stands ready to assist in every possible way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, history has vindicated the vision of Europe's founding fathers: the original Six that had just emerged from the war are now 25 free, strong countries and they will, no doubt, number more than 30 in the future.
In a few months, our family will have 10 new members.
The concluding monitoring report that the Commission adopted today is the last one.
This process is in motion, and, according to our prognosis, everything will be in place on 1&#160;May 2004.
The thirty-nine problem areas are spread out over ten countries.
It relates to only a few chapters of the and we estimate that the problems will be able to be resolved everywhere even before 1&#160;May 2004.
We have, then, a wide range of options, and agreement has today been reached within the Commission that each Commissioner, within his or her own area of responsibility, shall oversee the ongoing handling of these still unresolved issues and shall, if necessary, propose the necessary measures in good time before 1&#160;May.
Speaking for myself, I do not expect this to be necessary, as, in most instances, the adverse consequences resulting from these problems being left unresolved would not affect the Community as such, but only the new Member States themselves.
I therefore predict that all these cases will be resolved as a matter of course before 1&#160;May 2004.
Knowing that this House pays particular attention to the area of food safety, I can tell you that there are still a number of problems in this area too, and our position remains unchanged, namely that no food not conforming to our standards – by which I mean our hygiene rules – must be allowed onto the internal market.
For that reason, the necessary measures relating to food safety will be taken by February at the latest in order to ensure that no products not complying with the standards get onto the internal market.
Both Bulgaria and Romania have made remarkable progress.
I would in particular like to stress that Bulgaria has now at last managed to promote reform of the judicial system, which had been a major problem in assessing it.
We are sticking to the target of bringing both countries, together, into the European Union in 2007, although the principle still holds that no country should have to wait for another.
If, then, it turns out in the course of the ongoing process that they are progressing at different speeds, we will also be able to conclude the negotiations on different dates.
I would also appreciate it if Parliament could follow us in not, at the present moment, specifying any dates, but could limit itself to confirming 2007 as the accession date.
For that to be the case, work on the accession treaty needs to be completed before the end of 2005.
I noticed that Turkey reacted with a degree of surprise, for one of the consequences of the leak – which is regrettable and, from my point of view, absolutely so – is that I know the candidate countries’ reactions even before the reports are adopted, and the Turkish reaction tends towards astonishment.
President Prodi has just made reference to the problem of Cyprus.
I must, again, do likewise, because I want to inform you that the Commission has today taken a new step, one that is new and may well lead to controversy.
We have always said that the accession process is intended to be a catalyst for resolving the Cyprus issue, and we must, I think, use every available opportunity to deal with the anachronistic situation of a future Member State of the European Union with a barbed wire fence and UN troops deployed there in order to protect the two ethnic groups from each other.
I find it intolerable that certain things should get into the press without Parliament having the documents in question.
My third point has to do with Turkey.
The Turks are our friends and partners, but do we not also have to distinguish between that which is theoretical and what is put into practice?
We have been unable to make any amendments today, because all and sundry would have been able to draw comparisons between what happened today and what we originally wanted.
If we were to set the number of problems that have been identified with the new Member States against the number of infringement proceedings brought against long-standing Member States in any given year, you would discover a startling discrepancy.
The fact is that the number of infringements of the Treaties about which we have to complain to the present Member States every year is many times higher than the number of problem areas that we have now identified.
What you said on the subject of Turkey is nothing new to me; it is a point of view that I respect.
Some of the governments, for example, have told me that the relevant legislation is already on track.
Monitoring has undoubtedly proven its worth as a method that helps us to make progress.
I welcomed the Commissioner's remarks on Turkey.
I regard the political and technical difficulties involved in the financial package for Bulgaria and Romania as being manageable, for the reason that we intend to use the same methods, the same principles and the same rules as we did for the Ten.
So I do not think that is so terribly difficult and do not want to exclude the possibility of our being able to make perceptible progress in this area in the first six months of 2004. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commissioner did not answer my third question about the accession of these 10 countries to the European Economic Area.
These are matters with major implications.
Your optimism concerning the ten countries that will be joining the EU on 1 May relates to minor aspects that can still be ironed out.
I think that the big step towards the democratic constitutional state – which still has to be taken in practice – is of such a scale that we can hardly expect this to be completed in a year from now.
Correct me if I am wrong, Commissioner, but is the date of December 2004 either the date on which we will no longer take our political community of values as such seriously, or as the date on which the guillotine comes down on Turkey's membership?
There are two issues that give me particular cause for concern.
The first is that Turkish military personnel are still in supervisory authorities controlling important areas of civilian life, such as the National Council of Education or the National Council of Radio and Television.
Turkey itself will decide whether or not the end assessment will be favourable.
The political conditions governing accession have been met.
The roadmap is clear: a decision at the end of next year.
In various accession countries, there are a number of sectors, and it is often these very areas of policy which require increased efforts.
I am, for example, referring to discrimination in the area of social policy and employment, the right to asylum, and justice.
Specific problems spring to mind; they are particularly shocking to our EU citizens, and I assume also to the citizens of those countries.
I am talking here about such things as the discrimination against the Roma, child prostitution and human trafficking.
Firstly, as regards the political, economic and social integration of minorities, Europe has problems not only with Roma.
It is not, therefore, just the south eastern Europeans that have problems with the integration of the Roma minority, but also well-established old Member States that have problems integrating national minorities.
As regards the other issues such as prostitution and trafficking in women and girls, we repeatedly and emphatically point out these are, of course, prohibited in all of these countries.
When we talk about prostitution and even child prostitution, then there are always two sides.
I have always been in favour and have always said that the issue needs to be tackled from both sides.
The second question is what do you think about the regional processes in the candidate countries?
We have just spoken about the Roma and if we want to have a good partnership with Russia then the issue of Russian minorities in the Baltic States must be tackled with greater consistency and seriousness, without political reservation and discrimination, but rather in a way that really leads to a solution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Modrow, I am sorry that I did not understand your first question or your first accusation.
As regards Poland, I believe that it has proved itself capable of fulfilling the conditions governing accession and of implementing the , and the Polish Government is working hard at dealing with the problems that have been identified, but there are nine of them rather than fifty-one.
In the case of the Russian minority in the Baltic States, Mr&#160;Modrow, I do not agree with you that the issue is being dealt with in an inconsistent manner.
As far as the situation of the Russian minority is concerned, we have been rigorous in ensuring that Estonia and Latvia meet the corresponding standard, and they are doing so.
Having said that, I have a specific question relating to Cyprus and Turkey.
I greatly welcome the clarification in the progress report of the fact that the non-resolution of the Cyprus issue is an obstacle.
I think that it will also be extremely important for Turkey.
My specific question to you is, therefore: do you think that it is possible to influence Turkey in this area and to make it clear that we want to put an end to this? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Rothe, this is, in actual fact, about elections to a parliament in a country that we do not recognise.
Nevertheless, these elections are politically important, especially this year.
One thing, though, I am willing to concede: what we have experienced here is further proof that our administrative structures are so unbelievably complicated in some areas that an accession country cannot, even if it wants to, fulfil these demands in a relatively short space of time.
I will readily concede that we are dealing with an extremely complicated system but that, if you want to discuss who is responsible for the fact that we have or must have such complicated structures in this area, then that is quite a different matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I am going to use this speech to refer specifically to Hungary, a country I have observed in my capacity as rapporteur for this House.
I would like to provide a few complementary clarifications on the conclusions I have already had a chance to read, whilst first highlighting the high degree of alignment of Hungarian legislation and national institutions with the , a fact which, of course, I note with pleasure.
The second question relates to the fight against corruption and organised crime, which you have already had occasion to mention elsewhere, Commissioner: what do you make of the behaviour of the Hungarian authorities during their investigations into and prosecution of high-profile financial scandals, of which you are aware, Commissioner, and which have been uncovered recently in that country?
In the meantime we have reached the point where there is agreement between Romania and Hungary and the discussion process between the Slovak Republic and Hungary has not yet been concluded.
At the moment, however, the two countries are talking to each other and I think that they will reach an outcome sooner or later.
Even if they do not, European Community law will apply in this matter from 1&#160;May&#160;2004, and this will, in any case, rule out any differences in treatment on the grounds of nationality.
The other question is a very complicated issue in the light of the domestic disputes in Hungary.
I do not feel in any way responsible any more for domestic events in these countries.
I urge you to understand that I do not want the Commission to start getting involved in a future Member State’s internal politics. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Verheugen, I think that the reports are very well balanced and very accurate.
I would like to ask you, Commissioner, whether you would join with me and perhaps also urge all parties in this House not to make Turkey a campaign issue for the next European elections, since I fear that there are some forces that see ‘For or against Turkey’ as the election campaign issue for 2004.
You know, Mr&#160;Swoboda, that all parties in this Parliament must be completely at liberty to pick out any European problem as a central issue.
While the Commission correctly states that the accession process for Bulgaria is based on the ‘own merits’ principle, nevertheless it has also said that it is committed to a common accession treaty for Bulgaria and Romania together, by the end of 2005.
That concludes the item. &#160;&#160; The Commission report on the progress towards accession by the candidate countries assembles an impressive list of ‘warnings’, which will no doubt give these countries a foretaste of Europe at its most disciplinary.
This outcome was, however, inevitable once we did not opt for the most sensible accession method, that which we were advocating as early as 1992 and which consisted in creating a large political confederation and in then having the Eastern European countries subscribe to each Community policy as their interests or capacities progressively dictated.
The Council, on a proposal from the Commission, preferred a one-phase accession formula to a unified system, leading implicitly to a super state, and we are now going to suffer the consequences, because it is neither technically nor politically viable.
It is also striking that the candidate country that comes in for the most criticism, often for trivial reasons, is Poland, in fact the freest and most pugnacious country at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Then I note that the report on accession preparations treats Turkey in the same way as the other candidates, the ten plus two, in that way seeming, contrary to what you said, to anticipate the decision to be taken by the Council at the end of 2004 on this issue.
The Convention on the future of Europe was an innovation that set the current process of treaty reform in motion.
This will open the way to the signing of the future Constitutional Treaty&#160;-&#160;a Constitution for Europe as President Giscard d'Estaing has called it&#160;-&#160;in the period between 1 May 2004, which is the date set for the accession of the 10 new Member States, and the European Parliament elections.
Our aim is to achieve a high-quality result in keeping with the expectations of the European public and capable of guaranteeing effective, democratic functioning of the Union well into the future.
Endowing the European Union with a Constitution is a challenge not only for some countries or for the Italian Presidency, which has the honour of steering the Council through this particular stage, but for all of us.
After the opening ceremony on 4 October, the real work of the IGC began.
The vast majority of the Member States oppose the establishment of a Legislative Council.
The Italian Presidency has taken due note of this opposition, but will to do everything in its power to ensure that the Legislative Council is preserved in the Treaty, at least as an option for the future and thus as a possible development of the Council system.
Thirdly, the obviously excessive number of non-institutional matters raised by Member States was clearly incompatible with the time constraints of the IGC schedule established in Thessaloniki and confirmed in Brussels by the Heads of State or Government.
The approval of the new Constitution will be a success for everyone or a failure for the Union.
In any case, there has always been genuine dialogue between us.
I will be frank, then: what is to be called into question in the current situation of stasis in the Intergovernmental Conference is the approach of certain governments which want to act as if there had been no 18-month long Convention, which want to reopen all the Pandora’s boxes, one after the other, which refuse now to agree to what they often endorsed, themselves, yesterday in the Convention, as regards economic governance, for example, or as regards the role of the European Parliament in the Union’s budgetary procedure.
There is only one solution to this situation given that there are so many of us round the table&#160;–&#160;there will soon be 25 of us and, one day, 30&#160;–&#160;and that is a shift to qualified majority voting for the majority of subjects.
The second example is the updating of the common policies in the third part of the Constitution.
The important thing, therefore, is to make the mechanism for revising the third part rather more flexible, at least in some areas.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to reiterate here, on behalf of the Commission, that the only way we will have any chance of a short, decisive Intergovernmental Conference is if the governments observe the broad balance of the Constitution drawn up by the Convention.
I say this because I have already taken part in three Intergovernmental Conferences since Amsterdam.
The Amsterdam Conference produced a useful but incomplete result.
After laborious negotiations, the Nice Conference managed, in the end, to reach a complex temporary compromise on the leftovers of Amsterdam.
Then here we are today with the danger of a deadlock in this Intergovernmental Conference, despite the fact that the Convention is well on the way to a major, high-quality achievement.
All I want at this juncture is to see some of this European spirit hovering once again over the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
I am referring to the intention of the ECOFIN Council of Ministers to make a series of proposals which, at the end of the day, meant entirely undoing the compromise achieved by the Convention on Title&#160;VII of the Constitution on the Union's finances.
This was a compromise which was mulled over at length, involving four working groups chaired by Mr Amato, Mr&#160;Hänsch, Mr Christophersen and Mr Méndez de Vigo.
This compromise was based on three key ideas, which have been this Parliament’s banner over the last ten years: achieving greater democracy, achieving greater efficiency and achieving greater transparency.
That compromise was also based on two ideas: the first was that, with regard to revenue, the governments should have the final word, since, at the end of the day, it is provided by the citizens of the Union; and secondly, with regard to spending, the European Parliament should have the final word, since it represents those same Union citizens.
On 21 October, there was a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in which the Italian Foreign Minister took part, representing the President-in-Office.
We are firmly in favour of keeping the reference to the Legislative Council, the concentration of the European Parliament’s legislative function in the Council, which is an important point, a major innovation of the draft Convention.
Sometimes, I even have the impression that the views of 28 governments are part of the equation, whereas only 25 are entitled to give an opinion, for three are mere observers.
In the Convention, there were analyses, exchange of opinions, a search for solutions, a debate on the points for and against each solution, and, lastly, compromise.
We are in danger of creating an absurd situation where we go back to square one on issues already resolved in the Convention with a compromise but we are unable to discuss issues which were not the subject of an agreement in the Convention, such as, precisely, the revision procedure.
They want to retreat from the ordinary law towards Council law and to remove Parliament’s last word on the budget.
Should the proposals of the Ecofin Council be allowed to prosper at the IGC, this Parliament will be reduced to a pale mockery.
Just the list of desired amendments to the Convention text is 20 pages long.
When I see that, then I cannot help having the impression that some governments clearly did not take the Convention seriously, since what else would explain why these same governments that supported the Convention consensus are now calling for this plethora of amendments?
Article&#160;10 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights fully guarantees everyone’s right to freedom of religion.
I am amazed when important politicians in my country claim that the Convention’s draft is dangerous from a regulatory point of view or when it is announced by those at the Deutsche Bank that the predominance of social objectives in the Convention’s draft threatens the EU’s economic structure.
I guarantee that no one will understand and certainly not approve if there are two economic philosophies in the Constitution text: social market economy, balanced economic growth and full employment on the one hand and an open market economy with free competition and merely a high level of employment on the other hand.
Parliament has to pay considerably more attention to all these issues.
The Finance Ministers agree: fewer rights for Parliament, less publicity, fewer rights for the Commission.
Qualified majority voting&#160;–&#160;a considerable step in the draft Constitution&#160;–&#160;is being challenged in many areas.
Another step forward: Euratom.
The European Central Bank, which is bound by the Convention on European values and objectives, will be exempt from these values because of solidarity.
The attacks are fierce.
The principle is: more power to governments, less democracy, fewer rights for citizens, and less knowledge for the public.
We all know that the results of the Convention would not be accepted as a democratic consensus anywhere where the principles of democracy are known and respected, where votes are taken.
I salute the Italian Presidency and the dedicated fashion in which it has performed its work.
I hope that these signals will prove genuine and will extend to other items on our agenda: respect for the principle of subsidiarity, express guarantees of respect for the primacy of national constitutional law, transparency in the Council’s legislative operations, recognition in the preamble of our Christian heritage, retaining the rotating Presidency or finding a satisfactory solution to the various problems caused by the unsuitable duration of each term, the elimination of terminological flights of fancy such as ‘Minister for Foreign Affairs’ or ‘Constitution for Europe’, the deletion or strict rationing of flexibility or clauses so as not to cheat the system for revising the Treaties, and so on.
It would help to remind the French President that the result of his diplomacy, of his European Presidency, was the Treaty of Nice itself.
The reform of the Treaties must be a good reform, a lasting reform, one which allows everybody time to speak and be heard, to form real consensuses, to build and entrench authentic, lasting unanimity.
This is a task that the Council should have carried out.
Instead, they have broken an agreement made with us in Democracy Forum and printed the draft Constitution without attaching the minority statement.
I wish now to call upon the Council to ensure that the minority statement is printed together with the draft Constitution, and I am pleased to make our reader-friendly editions available to the Council free of charge.
You undertook to round off the six months with the commitment on the Convention, but the Italian Presidency&#160;–&#160;Italy, a founder country&#160;–&#160;has a duty to itself, to its history.
If it were to come to a watered-down text, in my opinion, the least that the Italian Presidency should do is avoid concluding with a hotpotch text, a text that would do more harm to the Union’s interests than failing to come to a conclusion.
Since this is the way things are, since we do not have a worthy, powerful draft capable of withstanding great resistance, a federalist draft along the lines of that proposed to this House by Altiero Spinelli almost 20 years ago, since we do not have a powerful vision to inspire us, then it is no surprise that everyone is digging in their heels over minor issues.
We Radicals are going to hold a convention on 13 and 14 November 2003 on this subject, in the hope that, on the basis of a reflection in which many can take part, both here and elsewhere, we might be able to achieve a position to the effect that Parliament can reject a text if the negotiations should really go very badly. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can only look at the Intergovernmental Conference’s work so far with disquiet and concern.
Imagine, a Convention that makes people smile – at any rate one that is not taken very seriously – manages, despite all political and geographical boundaries and the most disparate institutions from which it is drawn, to produce a convincing, well rounded draft constitution without having to take a vote on even one thing, and now we find that the Intergovernmental Conference tears that very same draft to shreds, unpicks it without giving the slightest hint about how it intends to reach a positive outcome.
It is quite remarkable that none of the proposals discussed in the Intergovernmental Conference mark any step forward, but are all retrograde when compared with the Convention’s draft.
The Intergovernmental Conference is in reverse gear.
Not for the sake of its members’ powers, but for the sake of the democratic control that Parliament clearly must exercise.
Incidentally, in this European Union the most costly favours have always been dispensed in ministerial meetings behind closed doors, not in this Parliament’s public budget debate.
Firstly, we expect agreement to be reached by the end of this year.
Secondly, the Intergovernmental Conference must put Nice behind it.
The Heads of State or Government who took this Union down the blind alley of Nice must now bring it out again.
Thirdly, a balance must be achieved between sometimes small-minded but basically legitimate national interests and the well-being of the European Community; in other words the Heads of State or Government must not only seek the good of their Member States, but they must also have and demonstrate a sense of responsibility for the unification of Europe, because what the Council devised in Nice is not only indefensible in democratic terms, but incomprehensible by any rational person.
We warned even the Commission against putting forward its quite reasonable proposals, on the grounds that if you start to undo one bit of the draft Constitution, then another bit will unravel and that will be the excuse for somebody else to come up with another proposal, and so on.
And now we see that things have gone a stage further, when a sectoral council suddenly wakes up after months of negotiations and discussions on these very subjects and after the Convention has finished and halfway through the IGC wants to wade in and rewrite the draft Constitution.
Furthermore, I would submit that the points they have raised are ones that in many cases have not even been flagged up by their own governments at the start of the IGC as issues on which they wished to have some discussion in that forum.
They are new points, and therefore we have a problem in that our governments would appear - at least in some cases - to be divided on this issue.
I would encourage them to bring some sense to the positions of their own governments and to bring us back to the more sensible negotiating line that most governments at least those of the original six Member States and the United Kingdom seem to be taking at the beginning of the IGC, in allowing this draft Constitution go through intact, albeit with a few technical adjustments.
Any opposing views expounded at the Intergovernmental Conference are secondary, in that no one disputes militarisation or repression or the handover of sovereignty.
Sometimes I would have liked them to have taken a different line, for example, a stronger line in relation to the unsatisfactorily readjusted sections on fisheries in parts I and III.
Now, suddenly, on the core issue of the budget, the ECOFIN Council and, I am afraid, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer with it, says that the Convention's entire proposal makes no sense and that a completely new order needs to be brought about.
I criticise the UK Government it is not the only government at fault but we should all be calling upon all governments involved to get their acts together and get this thing finished reasonably quickly and on the basis of the Convention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we all agree that decision-making procedures within the EU institutions need to be streamlined to take account of the ten new countries which are joining the Union next May.
First, the retention of effective national control over taxation policy is a matter to which the Irish Government and other European governments have consistently attached the highest importance.
I believe that taxation issues are best controlled by national governments and local authorities as opposed to a centralised European Union.
Second, while enhancing the effectiveness of the fight against cross-border crime, I am concerned at a proposal to extend qualified majority voting to issues relating to criminal law.
Third, in the area of security and defence, it is important that no new obligations are imposed on Ireland which threaten our traditional policy of military neutrality.
I do not know what kind of democracy that could be, because the Convention did not have a democratic mandate to draft a Constitution, it was not representative of the various shades of public opinion and, what is more, it did not hold any votes.
I am talking here about a feasible right of veto, and not a disproportionate right, such as the right to secede, which is obviously not feasible in the day-to-day debates of the Union.
Moreover, we cannot allow, as they stand, bridging clauses which make it possible to turn procedures requiring a unanimous decision into procedures requiring a majority decision without going through the process of an official revision, in other words without the need to ask for solemn ratification at national level.
If these bridging clauses were to be adopted – and there are a great many of them in the draft Convention – then the next revision of the Treaties would probably be the last.
That is definitely unacceptable. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference has not just been a forum for rubber-stamping the Convention, as was feared among governments at the start and was very much hoped for here in Parliament, and this IGC seems to have developed into a real IGC.
The IGC only has approximately five weeks more to go and things have not been moving along at the required pace.
The issues on which consensus has been achieved are mainly inferior versions of the balanced proposals put forward by the Convention.
The Convention’s proposal regarding the weighting of votes must be held on to.
It is, to my mind, a fair compromise for both the big and the small countries.
I cannot believe that the Council is taking on board the proposals from Ecofin in the budgetary area.
On the other two issues of the financial perspectives and the budgetary procedure, it really is a step too far.
Secondly, allow me to mention three concrete problems.
Solving them would help improve the text of the draft Constitution, emphasising important aspects of the Union’s political, cultural and institutional nature, without altering the basic orientation of the Convention’s work.
The third problem is to affirm clearly and precisely that the Union is a social union.
Regrettably, however, the instruments for achieving these objectives of the European Union are extremely weak.
Coordination is mentioned, and rightly so, but precisely because ours is not only a monetary union but also an economic union and a political union, we have given far too little thought to the need to keep in mind not only the interdependence of national economies, but also the social circumstances of our citizens.
I very much regret that we find very little in all these areas about how political decisions are to be given democratic legitimacy or that treats this as a priority.
As the European Parliament, we are quite willing to grant that Parliament does not need to have a say in every technological innovation in areas covered by the codecision procedure, and we are prepared to allow secondary legislation, but only on condition that in this Union committees of experts are not able to cover up and change everything behind closed doors, and for that reason the whole of Article 35 must also be included in the constitutional treaty as it comes out of the Intergovernmental Conference.
That is also part of the democratisation of economic and monetary policy. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, permit me to put your comments in a context less formal than this one.
For this Parliament, the essential thing now is to preserve the balance that has been achieved within the Convention.
It seems to me that if there is a Convention spirit, a European spirit reigning over this IGC, I would hope that it is that spirit which enables us to identify the listening phase that we are passing through now as being the phase that allows us to confirm the fact that, if we all pursue our individual arguments to their logical conclusion, our collective decision-making process will reach an impasse.
In my party, some people have already decided to say yes, while others have already decided to say no, and some people prefer to wait and see.
In the final analysis there could be a move away, not just from the text of the Convention, but also from the Treaty of Nice, as regards qualified majority voting, the powers of Parliament on budgetary matters or the introduction of a threshold of 66% of the population as the definition of a qualified majority.
What I would suggest to both of you is that you should examine the option of inserting a third subparagraph into Article IV-7.3, which would be worded – at least in spirit, though the legal form would have to be confirmed – as follows, ‘The European Council, on its own initiative or at the request of the European Parliament, may decide unanimously to authorise the Intergovernmental Conference to adopt the amendments to be made to the Treaty establishing the Constitution by a super-qualified majority and to make provision for its ratification under the same conditions’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference is destroying the Convention’s success.
It is now very striking that the governments are starting to attack the European Parliament and its rights.
The Intergovernmental Conference is spreading a bad atmosphere and we can do without that in such an important year as 2004. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, only with a sense of irony or with a sense of humour – since, as Rabelais said that what distinguishes man is his capacity to laugh – can we talk about progress in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
All the Member States have to do is simply accept the project that came out of the Convention and give up on the damaging idea of rewriting it or of pulling it apart.
Some States actually appear to want to be negative about Europe; countries that are obsessed with the fact that they are big or, conversely, that they are small.
I do, however, accept and support the current text, which represents enormous progress, in both form and content, and which heralds a new era of European constitutionalism.
It is quite clear that we who, as the Presidency in office, are presiding over the work of the Intergovernmental Conference can only be helped in our task by these contributions, however critical.
However, I would like to attempt to reassure you over what may appear to be a deadlock, to be problems between the IGC and the European Parliament.
As regards the procedures for revising the Constitutional Treaty&#160;–&#160;a point which was not addressed by the Convention&#160;–&#160;those taking part in the IGC are quite aware that the Italian Presidency has proposed to open a debate on this issue too, that, in this case too, there are times when conducting the work is a difficult task, as regards both form&#160;–&#160;because the item was not originally on the agenda&#160;–&#160;and content, for an in-depth analysis has been launched which is of no mean importance: it opens a debate on whether what we are working on is genuinely a Constitution.
Some countries have started to say that, if it is a Constitution, then that is a completely different question and that they have never given anyone a mandate to discuss a Constitution.
However, I can assure you that, as far as the Italian Presidency is concerned, it is our express intention to safeguard the rights of parliaments, and not just the European Parliament but parliaments in general.
Since then, although Parliament has expressly requested two separate regulations for two very different regions, the Commission has yet again tabled one proposal by means of which it wants to update the existing regulation and intends, at the same, to incorporate the regulation on aid to uprooted populations, which will lapse at the end of next year.
Needless to say, although there will have to be extensive consultation with the Council on this matter, it is clear to everyone that a distinction must be drawn.
The Commission wants a 'lightweight legislative framework' for its actions in the area of development cooperation in both regions.
As the Millennium Development Goals, in fact, stated, the key goal of development cooperation is the fight against poverty and its ultimate eradication.
My first point, therefore, is that 35% of expenditure should be set aside for social infrastructure, something we have included in the budget on a regular basis since 2001.
At least 20% of this should be spent on basic health care and basic education, for these Millennium Goals have had a very raw deal to date.
Secondly, education, in particular, is a very important instrument in the fight against poverty.
I would therefore emphatically call for gender mainstreaming, and even for extra attention for women and girls, not only in education and health care, but also in social, economic and especially political spheres.
The abortive negotiations of the WTO in Cancún clearly underlined once again that the developing countries demand full participation.
It is therefore of crucial importance that all interested parties be consulted when the strategic documents, the annual indicative programmes and the annual action plans for development cooperation are drafted.
By this I mean not only the government bodies at national, regional and local level, but also the members of parliament in those countries, the NGOs, the private sector and also all other actors involved in civil society.
They know their own requirements like no other and can therefore give a clear indication of what is needed.
It is important that this House should be, both now and in the future, involved as co-legislator in European development policy.
The Commission must therefore put before Parliament the strategic documents to which I have referred.
It seems obvious to me that, in this context, not only should a description be given of the sectoral and inter-sectoral priorities, as well as the specific objectives, but also of the expected results on the basis of adequate performance indicators.
Finally, I should like to underline here once again that the European Union's cooperation with Asia and Latin America requires a modern legislative framework, in which both the fight against poverty and that against inequality have their own dynamism.
As regards available funds, the Commission suggests a financial framework for 2003 to 2006, which would be divided up at a ratio of 60% for Asia and 40% for Latin America, totalling EUR&#160;3.793&#160;billion.
For these two regions, the problem of outstanding commitments (RAL) stands at EUR&#160;3.45&#160;billion.
I also proposed rounding up the total amount to EUR&#160;3.8&#160;billion in order to take account of the fact that the 2003 budget was in the meantime adopted at a level higher than that proposed by the Commission.
It is, therefore, crucial that the European Union contributes to eradicating poverty, to promoting sustainable development and to ensuring respect for human rights, minority rights and the rights of indigenous people, and contributes to democracy, good governance and to combating inequalities.
I also wish to state that the Committee on Budgets voted in favour of setting up a solidarity fund for this region, which I believe will prove to be an extremely positive initiative. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the rules which regulate cooperation between the Union and the countries of Asia and Latin America date from ten years ago.
In ten years, there have been certain changes in the world.
In Asia, certain countries have made progress in terms of consolidating their democracies and their development has been given momentum.
Unfortunately, in other Asian countries, the situation has deteriorated in all areas of political, economic and social activity.
In both regions the fight against poverty has not only failed to achieve any notable success, but rather, on the contrary, in Bangladesh and in Haiti, in Afghanistan and in Bolivia, poverty is engulfing more and more social groups.
We agree with the objectives which take up our commitment to the fight to eradicate poverty, not only in terms of the financing and co-financing of projects to promote development, but prioritising education, health and strengthening civil society in order to strengthen democracy, transparency and good governance, without which democracy will not be strengthened and the desired development will not achieve its objectives.
Throughout these long months of parliamentary negotiation we have held talks with numerous governments involved, with their ambassadors here in Brussels, and with many, many NGOs which work both in Asia and Latin America.
All of them, I repeat, all of them, without exception, without a single exception, have said that they prefer two regulations: one for Asia and another for Latin America.
If we say, and the Commission also says, that we want to adopt the principle of co-participation in our cooperation from the moment programmes are established and not just in the management and implementation phase of a project, it does not appear coherent now to do the opposite.
First of all, we had the proposed cooperation agreement which, it has to be said, looked more like a free-trade agreement than a development programme.
That did not surprise us unduly, because it formed part of the current European policy which is leading to a change in the thinking behind the Community’s development policy.
Within that regulation, however, we succeeded in reinserting sustainable development, accompanied by social and environmental objectives.
In particular, 10% of the budget for this programme is to be allocated to the conservation and sustainable management of natural resources, and 35% to social and health infrastructures.
Human rights, and especially women’s rights, the rights of minorities and of indigenous peoples and the removal of inequalities are also the guiding principles of European cooperation policy in these regions.
Reducing poverty will therefore have to be the first goal of the national programmes which will be negotiated between each country and the Commission.
We would do better to campaign for an overall increase in aid rather than wanting to know which continent will get most.
Unfortunately we have used up a great deal of energy and wasted a great deal of time on a dispute which seems to me to be trivial, given the size of the challenges we have to meet in Asia and in Latin America.
I believe that the essential thing is to fight for the content of these regulations, the content of these chapters, the content that we are giving them today, because that is what the people of both Asia and Latin America expect of us today. &#160;&#160; – Although I applaud the way in which the rapporteur has clarified the goal of the regulation for Asia and Latin America, the question concerning the fight against poverty is this: where is the added value compared to national development cooperation?
In the fight against poverty, there is the risk of Member States duplicating their efforts.
It is complementary to development cooperation and related to European trade policy.
However, in an inter-continental context, this charitableness finds expression via specific policy actions and co-financing organisations.
It is difficult, Mr President, to think of a report on which there has been greater consensus in this House, a consensus which is expressed through a proposal which calls for one regulation for Asia and another for Latin America, in the belief that the specific characteristics of these two regions would be better addressed by means of a separate regulation for each one.
Above all, Mr President, it is surprising because it is an initiative which is intended to prevent the progress that has been made in the fields of co-existence and democratisation being jeopardised as a result of social fragility, as the case of Bolivia recently demonstrated.
What is most surprising, Mr President, is that one of the arguments used and which is used as an authority to reject this proposal is the position of the Council of Ministers, as if the European Commission had to respond to the Council of Ministers and take its positions more seriously than those of the European Parliament.
Therefore, Commissioner, if the House ratifies the proposal as approved by the Committee on Development, I would urge the Commission to accept it, not as a demonstration of high-handedness, but as a demonstration of coherence, nor as a way of undermining the Commission’s authority, but simply in the normal exercise of the competences attributed to this Parliament in accordance with the institutional balance laid down in the Treaties. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to add my voice to the many congratulations addressed to the rapporteur.
The measures called for by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, whatever distinction is drawn as regards whether they are intended for Asia or Latin America, make it quite clear that it is necessary to have two regulations here in the future.
You do not have to be an expert on the countries listed in the Annexes, which will benefit from these regulations or the projects that are supported, to see the enormous, the tremendous differences between the two regions and therefore the need for two regulations.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur, who has actually always shared this opinion, for taking such a clear stance here.
From my experience in other areas and other negotiations with the Commission, I believe that if we get a convincing majority for two regulations here in Parliament tomorrow, that will be a good starting point for negotiations with the Commission and the Commission will move on this important question. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, firstly, I wish to say that I think there are a number of good points about the Commission’s proposal.
I am conscious of the fact that Parliament wanted two regulations, but I think that the Commission has very strong arguments in favour of its proposal.
In recent years, a number of measures have been implemented to make the organisation of development cooperation more efficient, and it would be strange if we were now to complicate this with two regulations and, as it were, to obstruct the simplification of the procedures otherwise under way.
We have a single framework for ACP cooperation, and it operates quite admirably.
I should therefore like to urge my fellow MEPs, irrespective of what is said by the leaders of the political groups, to vote against the amendments aimed at our having two different regulations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the Commission and, again, the rapporteur for the excellent and often very difficult task that she has undertaken.
I believe that it has to be the task of this Parliament to be in favour of simpler rules and procedures and also to ensure that we have an understanding of the need for timely and effective decision-making in programming.
In addition, as far as I am concerned, it makes absolutely no sense, when we are dealing with a technical and legal regulation, to be suggesting that it should be doing the work of country strategy papers in the countries that we work with or the work of the national indicative programmes that we work with.
The Commission's communication on development policy in 2000 called for us to refocus on poverty eradication.
However, I wish my country would sometimes stand up for its national interests in the way my Spanish colleagues seem to, irrespective of politics.
If the two regulations are supposed to send the money where the poor are, why are we sending EUR 247 million from Asia to Latin America?
I know that the European Parliament is famous for standing on its head but it is an extraordinary example of how we have done so again.
I do not think I have had more meetings, more discussions in the Commission or more conversations in Parliament.
First, there has been a strong call in certain quarters of this House for two regulations instead of one.
Second, as the many amendments which have been tabled illustrate, there is also a strong wish for a more detailed regulation.
I should like to respond to both these issues, and to reiterate the Commission’s position on the form of the regulation.
So as to avoid the proliferation of legal instruments and the multiplication of procedures and committees; in short, to be more effective.
As I have said on a number of occasions, I find it difficult to believe that if we were to follow the views of some in this Parliament and support two regulations, there would be dancing in the streets in La Paz or dancing in the streets even around the Latin American embassies in Brussels.
References to other regions with their ‘own’ regulation Tacis and CARDS, for example are, in my judgment, hardly convincing, since the objectives of these regulations are not those of development policy as set out in Article 177 of the Treaty and which apply equally to Asia and Latin America.
But let us now turn to the substance of the amendments, and to the four most important issues on which, in my view, our further discussions should focus.
Supporting sectoral programmes linked to health, education and poverty alleviation in Latin America’s poorest countries and regions could be achieved by means of the programming and implementation instruments which we have at our disposal.
Setting up a fund, seeking the participation of other financial institutions and agreeing on the rules governing the fund and its management would not only be wasteful but would also be a complicated and cumbersome process.
Parliament proposes to introduce a number of sectoral targets in the regulation: 35% for social infrastructure and, within this figure, 20% for basic education and health; another 10% for the environment and up to 15% for Civil Society.
As members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation know, the current agreement on a benchmark of 35% for social infrastructure was reached two years ago after long discussions, in which I myself took part, between representatives of the Commission and the Development Committee.
Above all, the interests of populations in need in Asia and Latin America should encourage us to do our utmost for the speedy adoption of a high-quality new legal framework for cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have requested the floor as a result of personal comments in accordance with Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure.
I would like to say, Mr President, that I have the greatest respect for everybody’s opinions, but that in a democracy it is votes that count.
I believe it is not the Commission who has to be convinced of the validity of the arguments, but Parliament, because, Commissioner, I would remind you that it is the Commission that answers politically to this Parliament, and not Parliament to the Commission, and that we are involved in a codecision procedure in which it is assumed that Parliament has something to say. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was extremely distressed by what Mr&#160;Deva said, since he insinuated that we were not fighting to eradicate poverty, but that we Spaniards had other kinds of interest.
The truth is that I felt bad, and I would also feel bad if I did not say this here, since we are working together with the Committee on Development to eradicate poverty: to eradicate poverty in Asia and in Latin America. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
This obligation is imposed, in particular, on those subsidies which, up to now, have been financed from headings which, because of their position in the budgetary nomenclature, tended to be treated as administrative expenditure and so could be paid without a legal base.
The changes in budgetary nomenclature introduced by the new financial regulation mean that such subsidies can no longer be treated as administrative expenditure and so the subsidies in question require a legal base.
It was this new obligation which led the Commission, in the spring of this year, to submit seven proposals for new legal bases.
The switch from one budgetary approach to another may, however, cause serious financial difficulties, the consequences of which could prove to be drastic for the Europe of culture, youth and education if the joint legislators do not reach an agreement as soon as possible.
The proposals which the Commission has submitted to you are aimed at ensuring a smooth and uninterrupted transition from the old system to the new one, and we have tried very hard to draft texts which broadly reproduce the 2003 detailed implementing rules, with the aim of ensuring that essential continuity and losing none of the advantages to be gained, in terms of the proper management of public funds by taking this new financial regulation into account.
With this in mind, the Commission’s proposals are soberly worded, with the essential objective of preserving the , while giving it a legal structure which complies with the new financial regulation.
I should like to ask you not to move too far away from the Commission’s proposals and to do everything to ensure that these legal bases can be adopted as quickly as possible.
All possible means of reaching a compromise must be explored if they could enable us to bring these procedures to a speedy conclusion.
With effect from 1 January 2004, in fact, if there are no legal bases, it will quite simply become impossible for us to give our financial support to all those bodies which contribute to the creative, cultural and intellectual vigour of Europe.
In other words, an agreement at first reading is essential if those bodies are to be paid in January 2004.
We note that the length of the programmes – five years for culture and education, and three years for youth – has met with mixed reactions.
We reject, however, Amendment 8 on youth, and insist that 2006 should be the deadline, because by 2007 we would like to set up a new youth programme which will give preferential treatment to participation by European youth organisations.
Amendment 17 on culture, which reduces the budget, would be acceptable if Amendment 16, reducing the duration of the programme, were adopted.
Moreover, if the duration is not amended, Amendment 11 on youth, which proposes an increase in the budget, is acceptable in order to cope with the challenges posed by enlargement.
On the education side, we can accept in part, or in spirit, a group of amendments, namely Amendments 4, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11, which seek to amend, by making amendments as part of the 2004 budgetary process, the total amount of funding and the maximum and minimum percentages of that funding reserved for each activity in the programme.
In order to facilitate the transition towards the approach contained in the financial regulation, the Commission has encouraged a mixed system, consisting of invitations to submit proposals and budgetary earmarking for Part 2 of the culture base.
Therefore, we accept Amendment 18 on culture, but we are obliged to reject the culture Amendments 5, 15, 19, 20 and 23, which move too far away from the situation that we are trying to rectify.
From this point of view, the criteria should be clear, or clarified further.
In this respect, we cannot accept Amendment 5 on education, which is concerned with the International Federation of Europe Houses (FIME), and which seeks to add it to the list of bodies covered by Action 1, because, on the one hand, FIME plays the role of an intermediary in the redistribution of subsidies, which excludes it from the sphere of action defined by the financial regulation, and on the other hand, an audit of the activities subsidised by the Commission in recent years has been launched in the light of past experience.
I should like, however, to explain to you that the Commission has already begun to phase out preferential collaboration activities with independent networks such as FIME.
Mr President, while supporting these principles, the Commission cannot accept these amendments, which do not correspond to provisions concerning relations between the institutions established in the comitology decision, or which interfere with the executive powers of the Commission.
These are as follows: on culture, Amendments 11, 21 and 22, on education, Amendments 13, 14 and 15, and on youth, Amendments 15, 22 and 23.
However, we agree to Amendment 17 on youth, which proposes that Parliament should be informed every year about the annual implementation of our youth programme.
While sharing Parliament’s opinion on this point, it seems to us to be more appropriate to put this publicity obligation in the annex.
The same situation means that, on youth, we accept Amendment 20 but reject Amendment 6, and, on education, we accept Amendment 12 but reject Amendment 2.
We cannot accept Amendments 13 and 14 on culture, which seek to abolish the annual reduction.
Three amendments on youth, namely Amendments 5, 18 and 19, seek to restrict the programme to youth organisations possessing such characteristics, and this is something we accept.
On the other hand, other amendments go much further in the opposite direction, and we cannot accept either Amendment 24 on youth or Amendment 24 on culture, both of which propose a substantial increase in the rate of the gradual reduction.
In addition, the Commission sees itself in the role of cultural ambassador, as proposed in Amendment 9 on culture.
I have limited myself – and please excuse me for having spoken for such a long time – to mentioning the most sensitive amendments proposed in the three reports.
I should now like to invite you to do everything you can to ensure that the support which the Union gives to the Europe of culture, education and youth does not experience an eclipse.
An agreement between the joint legislators, at this stage in the proceedings, is vital if the system is to get back on the road at the beginning of 2004. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, you were right to say that time is short and that we must make an effort so that the projects can start and those concerned can get their funding.
I therefore believe there is an urgent need to offer transitional solutions so that programmes can continue if there are difficulties, so that Europe’s citizens are not hindered in their planned activities and the confidence which is in any case so very difficult to build up is not undermined at the same time.
For example, the intention behind the proposal to harmonise action programmes as regards the proportion of cofinancing, the principle of degressivity and, not least, the alignment of their running time to 2008 is a good one, but there is no way it will work in practice.
A 20% rate for youth organisations is the maximum because lack of sponsorship makes it very difficult for organisations to carry on their activities as it is.
I am convinced it is right to integrate the youth action programme into the new youth programme from 2007, since that will certainly bring great advantages to young people and youth organisations.
I support the involvement of youth organisations from the European Union, the Member States, the EFTA and EEA countries, the Balkan countries and certain countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
But I do not think that the activities of organisations working with partners outside those countries should in any way be restricted provided they are supported by their own governments and organisations.
All organisations that have received funding from the EU budget should also indicate this on their home pages or mention it in their annual reports.
That applies for all three programmes, both to give an overview of the organisations’ activities and to make the European added value visible.
Europe’s future lies in an open-minded youth, given an opportunity through strengthened educational institutions and organisations to build a Europe of common social prosperity, the foundation of which will be acceptance of cultural diversity and dialogue with art and culture. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need to have basic legal acts that allow the Commission to proceed according to clearly defined principles when approving and managing grants.
This House has for years supported all these organisations; it even founded some of them.
Those that have been formed recently do not know that, of course, like the Youth Orchestra, the College of Europe, the University Institute in Florence, the Law Academy in Trier, the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages, the Mercator Network of Information and Documentation Centres, or the European Youth Forum.
I had to say that because I am simply furious.
I would like to say once again in connection with earmarking here that I am glad the Commission has proposed retaining earmarking.
No doubt it did so because it knows that we as Members of the European Parliament are closer to the citizens than the officials sitting here in Brussels, and they know that we know what may be politically and also culturally relevant in these individual cases.
My main proposals were narrowly defeated in the committee vote.
I hope that Parliament will be able to correct the situation in tomorrow’s vote, especially as the committee’s proposal to continue the practice of earmarking in the funding of cultural organisations is clearly in contravention of the Financial Regulation, according to an opinion of Parliament’s legal department.
I am appalled that even the Committee on Budgets is so obviously determined to act in contravention of the Financial Regulation.
The Commission proposal for a Community action programme to promote organisations active in the field of culture was born of necessity: switching to an activity-based budget has made it unavoidable.
European cultural organisations formerly financed from Section A relating to administrative expenditure need a legal basis for funding to be able to continue.
The change will give us a unique opportunity to create an action programme for networks active at European level in the field of culture, where funding criteria can be determined and EU support for the networks can be organised in the way set out in Title 6 of the Financial Regulation, which emphasises the importance of the principles of transparency and equal treatment.
The Commission proposal under discussion covers not only cultural organisations active at European level funded under former budget line A-3042, but also the European Bureau of Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator network centres funded under budget line A-3015 as well as grants under budget line A-3035 awarded for the preservation of Nazi concentration camps as historical monuments.
In this connection it should be stressed that the problems with the report do not concern these points: what is most essential for the funding of the European Bureau of Lesser-Used Languages and concentration camp memorials is that the legal basis should be brought into force from the beginning of the year.
We spoke here of haste, but I think that if we want to we can obtain some results quite quickly.
As the Council on Education, Youth and Culture, which must decide unanimously on the issue, is, according to my information, definitely of the opinion that the programme should last until 2006, and not 2008, I have tabled an amendment on the matter.
I think it would be a very good idea to make the funding of cultural organisations part of the new culture programme in preparation.
The third problem is linked to degressivity with regard to amounts for grants.
Furthermore, the amendments I tabled contain the suggestion that, owing to a lack of time, the list the Committee on Budgets has decided upon, could be finalised next year.
The application procedure for 2005 could then be commenced in good time at the start of the year.
At present there are organisations on our list which in fact no longer even exist.
This procedure is intended to facilitate cooperation between the competent committees and strengthen the role of the committee asked for an opinion.
I therefore believe that it is essential that, with a view to the future, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs examine this rule, either with a view to revising it, or with a view to completely removing it.
Furthermore, degressivity allows money recovered in this way to be able, in this case, to be used to subsidise new associations, particularly those in the enlargement countries.
The Commission’s proposals therefore provide for co-financing and degressivity in the award of all these grants.
Nevertheless, I must express my surprise at the fact that the Commission has applied different percentages in these three proposals, which are the responsibility of the same Directorate-General, both for co-financing and for degressivity.
Since Article 109 of the Financial Regulation states that equal treatment must be one of the principles for the award of grants, it is not justifiable that associations with the same objective but which act in different fields should be subject to differing treatment.
Furthermore, in the case of co-financing, it was not a question of establishing fixed percentages, but of establishing minimums that would then allow the executive authority to apply percentages in accordance with the real needs or possibilities of each association.
Finally - as I pointed out in my speech on grants during the last plenary session – lack of time has had a terrible effect on the whole of this procedure.
The Commission was under time pressure in presenting its proposals and Parliament has also been under time pressure with regard to the amended proposals we are presenting today.
The procedures followed to date have not always been a guarantee for transparency and quality, and these are, after all, two requirements if Europe wants to become the world's most dynamic and competitive knowledge economy.
Traditionally, my group has not been in favour of earmarking, but the selected organisations should be able to rely on a certain degree of continuity.
Consequently, my group argues in favour of introducing the degressivity principle, which should kick-in in the third year.
The organisations that have hitherto received subsidies run the risk of being left in the cold in 2004.
These concerns relate both to certain permanent agencies receiving Community funds and to the procedure for selecting the agencies which are not permanent.
I fear that we are in danger of creating certain agencies that will eat up the Community budget and of complicating work which could be carried out through them.
I fear that the European Youth Forum is very detached from the new generation and from agencies which relate to the real world of youth.
I also fear that the criteria for the selected agencies, according to which, for example, an agency which pursues an objective of general European interest in the field of youth or an objective which forms part of the policy of the European Union can be selected, result in our castrating young people.
Fortunately, there are many worthy, hardworking organisations doing a great deal to promote European Union and cooperation.
We need to find a way of getting the money to the people who are actually going to do some good with it.
Some of these procedures are simply going to cancel that effort altogether.
If the European Union cannot organise itself to give assistance, or simply will not, why should any other organisation be thinking of doing so?
In an increasingly individualistic society, the role that youth NGOs play in engaging young people in civil society is crucial.
That is why I welcome that all kinds of youth organisations, including and other international non-governmental youth NGOs, are excluded from the principle of digressivity which would mean a reduction of 2.5% in their funds from the third year onwards.
The Commission only adopted the proposals in May 2003, and therefore we cannot realistically expect the first grants to be available before late summer 2004.
There are seven areas in total, three of which are on the plenary agenda for this week.
We now find, however, that two of the reports are giving us serious problems.
In other words, we will taking into account the Financial Regulation and the budgetary consequences.
I will stand up during the vote to ask Parliament to support an oral amendment to ensure that both these reports fall into in line with the Financial Regulation.
Furthermore, it is very important that the opinions of these young people can be communicated to all the Members of this House and other people in the European institutions, because when it comes to making decisions it is very important to be aware of those opinions.
But I would like to add, in relation to the three reports in general, that we must attach more importance to education, youth and culture, because although we always say here that they are extremely important issues, the reality is that this view is not then reflected in the European Union's budgets.
And if they are not reflected in the budgets, it is very unlikely that our voters will believe us when we say it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject which we are examining appears at first sight to be technical, yet it conceals behind it a very serious political dimension, in that it concerns the funding of organisations which, according to the wording repeated in the explanatory statements of all three reports, 'reinforce the European message' and operate in three crucial areas: youth, education and culture.
But why spend around EUR 40 million a year over five years in order to reinforce the so-called European message?
Because it would appear that the advertising and promotions carried out both by the services of the European Union and by the Member States in order to convince the peoples of the benefits of Europe are not enough.
A new financial regulation has been decided on, by a vote in the European Parliament.
That new financial regulation has consequences.
Parliament was aware, when it voted in favour of the new financial regulation, that it would have consequences.
Now one of those consequences is that it is impossible to go on funding certain bodies in the way they have been funded in the past.
Therefore we had to find a solution.
The easiest solution would have been to say that we shall just apply the financial regulation, then close the door and that would be the end of it.
I am sorry, but when I hear that all these things will no longer be funded, I wonder what I have been doing for the last few months in trying to continue the funding despite a financial regulation which no longer permits that funding.
It did not receive it then because, during those months, the Commission was achieving the impossible in order to safeguard cultural bodies, educational bodies and youth bodies, and in order to proceed in the direction desired by the European Parliament, in order to give assistance to those beneficiaries which Parliament had selected, quite rightly, so that they could switch from one system to the other without any interruption.
The new financial regulation makes no provision for earmarking.
The Chairman of the Committee on Budgets has made it very clear: either Parliament votes in favour of those amendments which are likely, in the codecision procedure, to meet with the Council’s agreement, in which case from January onwards, all those bodies to which we are committed will receive their money, or it votes in favour of amendments which will never receive agreement from anybody, in which case, come January, the bodies that I have just referred to, and there are dozens and dozens of them, will not receive any money at all.
I hope Parliament and the Council, for their part, will also do everything they can to ensure that the solution can be implemented with effect from January 2004. &#160;&#160; Mr President, would you allow a question to the Commission, although it does not strictly speaking conform to the Rules of Procedure? &#160;&#160; As an exception, I will give you fifteen seconds in which to ask your question. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission’s proposal provides for transitional measures for the three proposals we are discussing.
I should like to say to the honourable Member that if there is no agreement in the codecision procedure, if there is a delay, if we have to start discussing all the details again from the beginning, then no decision will be taken before the January 2004 deadline.
Evidence to date has revealed huge differences between the two sexes both in education and in the labour market.
The report which I have drafted on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights starts by listing the reasons, such as social stereotyping and cultural preconceptions, which restrict the options of girls and raise barriers to their careers, resulting in general negative consequences in the economy as a result of the non-rational use of human resources.
Over the last decade, we know that three million new jobs have been created, of which 1 600 000 have been taken up by women.
Hence, economic development in the field of modern technologies under present circumstances is exacerbating structural weaknesses and widening the gender gap.
Of the 500 000 researchers working in industry in Europe, only 50 000 are women.
Surveys show there are differences in the way in which men and women use Internet services.
In order to increase the number of women in education and training in the new technologies, my report proposes the inclusion of computers and the Internet into primary schooling from an early age, so as to encourage young girls to take up lessons in a positive direction.
That is why both the Commission and the Member States should undertake the commitment, with the full use of Structural Funds and in particular the Social Fund, for training in the new technologies, particularly with regard to the entry or return of women to the labour market, always in the context of the Lisbon objectives.
We are calling on the European Commission and the Member States to promote the full and equal participation of women in the media, including the administration, planning, management, education and projection sectors.
All the policies of the European Union should promote a strategy to safeguard the basic infrastructure which will provide access, equipment and connections for every house, school, public building and library.
As we know, globalisation and the information and communications technologies (ICT) have dramatically changed all areas of social and professional life in Europe.
More than half of all people working today use computers in their professional lives, 40% of Europeans use the Internet and, in the last five years, more than 60% of all new jobs created in the Union have been in the high-tech sectors.
The new technologies offer new opportunities for jobs and for people’s working lives, including teleworking which, at least in theory, can help women and men better to reconcile family and working life.
In some countries, less than 30% of women go on to study the new technologies in higher education.
In this context, the Lisbon strategy and the European Social Policy Agenda and the Employment Strategy have played a significant role in promoting women’s access to the information society, including all the steps adopted by Education Ministers at national and European level.
By the same token, the Framework Strategy for Gender Equality encourages an employability-oriented approach and women’s access to jobs in the new technologies sector.
A number of other Community-funded programmes also promote gender equality, and the social partners have a key role to play in supporting women’s participation in the information society.
Secondly, emphasis should be placed on education and training.
Thirdly, work must be done to improve the rate of employment for women and the percentage of women setting up their own businesses in the new technology sector.
As I said at the beginning of this speech, particular attention must be paid to women who risk being excluded from the information society, including women who are older, unemployed or on a low income, women who are immigrants or who have disabilities and, above all, women who have not received sufficient education.
Improving access to broadband connections can prevent exclusion in both urban and rural areas.
By promoting new working methods, new ways of organising work, such action will also create the conditions necessary to bring about change in current employment practices.
Increasing the participation of women in the labour market is crucial to attaining the objectives set in Lisbon and significantly improving enterprise creation could make a real change to the hand women are dealt.
We must improve the role women are given in the fields of ownership, supervision and management in the ICT and media sectors, by providing the necessary assistance to women who set up their own businesses, by funding projects and by cooperating on implementing action plans, particularly in knowledge-based sectors, by supporting awareness-raising campaigns and by encouraging women to grasp job opportunities in the new technologies sector, once they are trained.
In order to achieve equality between men and women, women’s representation in the market must be improved, but in itself, this is not enough.
Women must also play a major role in decision-making bodies and in society in general.
The whole world is developing into an information society and our experience shows that those states, areas and citizens most familiar with these new opportunities have greater chances of employment and advancement.
However, even inside the European Union there are discrepancies between the Member States, between the regions and, unfortunately, between the two sexes, as both the rapporteur and the Commissioner have pointed out.
And as this year is the year of the people with disabilities, I should like to refer in particular to the initiatives taken by mothers in order to deal with their children's health problems.
The regulation proposed by Greece is needed to provide a framework for formalising and strengthening the informal cooperation that already exists between liaison officers.
The ideal situation would be to have Community ‘Immigration’ liaison officers with their own duties, who are trained and paid by the Union, but unfortunately neither the jurisdiction nor the budget for this yet exists and some States remain unconvinced.
In the meantime, this new proposal for a regulation is, to my mind, a step towards achieving greater transparency.
People who leave their country, their friends and family, to immigrate to the European Union do so for significant reasons that are often matters of life or death.
We must, therefore, disseminate information on the possibilities of legal immigration in the countries concerned.
I wish to emphasise that, very often, making legislation tougher reduces the number of legal workers and increases the number of illegal workers, whom it in no way prevents getting through.
The Commission is of the view that this network must ensure the necessary exchange of information between immigration liaison officers and also the coordination that the Member States must develop with third countries in order to work together in the field of European immigration policy.
The action plans adopted by the Council on illegal immigration and on the management of our external borders, as well as the conclusions of the Seville and Thessaloniki European Councils, also express the need for the creation of such a network.
The Commission, therefore, looks favourably on the initiative adopted by the Greek Government to table this proposal.
Taken as a whole, however, we believe the text provides a good working basis for more structured and better coordinated cooperation with third countries in the field of immigration.
This directive, without bringing a final result as a whole and a full political answer to the issue, is nonetheless a first important step forward.
The proposals by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will, I hope, improve the regulation, making it more transparent and more democratic, with the safeguarding of parliamentary control and with cooperation which respects the legal order in the countries which will operate these networks.
The operation of these networks will allow for better management of the resources made available by the European Union for this issue, will improve relations between the European Union and the countries in which the networks operate and may facilitate the foreign policy of the European Union by unifying it on this issue and by making it transparent to the countries, thereby facilitating our relations with them.
I hope that the proper application of this regulation, together with other supporting policies to develop and democratise the countries of origin of illegal immigrants, will significantly improve the deeper social and political problem which affects our societies and provides a breeding ground for a climate of racism and xenophobia which is an insult to the humanitarian and democratic values of European political and social civilisation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and also thank her for the good relationship she has had with the rapporteur for this group, accepting many of the amendments and proposals we have presented in committee.
I agree that this proposal is important, and the creation of this network of liaison officers is important, particularly in view of the fact that we have decided we have discussed this here many times on the importance of communication and communication strategy in the countries in which immigration originates, providing information on the means of legal entry and on the dangers and deceptions surrounding illegal immigration.
I therefore believe that the amendments which have been introduced in this regard into the rapporteur’s report are particularly important, and oblige the Commission to participate, in some way, in the meetings of liaison officers, and provide it with the opportunity to inform citizens of these countries in which immigration originates of the means for legal entry and of the dangers of illegal immigration.
On the other hand, I believe that perhaps one of the amendments presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is rather over the top insofar as it could constitute a first step towards the creation of a European Union foreign service, but it is the case that these liaison officers, with the support of the offices of the Commission in relation to information and coordination, are without doubt a first step towards the creation of this Community immigration policy which we all want to see.
In this way, we want the countries in which immigration originates to see Europe as a single region and for the offices of the Commission to act as a coordinator to some extent of the immigration policy which we all want the European Union to have.
Finally, I believe it is important and I wish to address this to the Commissioner to accept that the countries which do not have representatives in the countries in which immigration originates may delegate that task to liaison officers from another country which does have representation in that country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have on several occasions expressed our concern that the Union’s external borders constitute one of the weakest links in the system for creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
We therefore support all initiatives that could contribute to strengthening control of the Union’s external borders, which is crucial.
As Commissioner Vitorino pointed out, the Seville European Council called for a network of immigration liaison officers to be created and the Thessaloniki conclusions stated the need to speed up work on adopting a legal instrument by the end of 2003.
Informal cooperation between immigration liaison officers already exists and this initiative is intended to give this cooperation a framework that will formalise it and strengthen it.
This network of officers can and must contribute to preventing illegal immigration and to combating this phenomenon, to help in the return of illegal immigrants and to the management of legal immigration.
We want to develop a proactive policy for legal immigration, and at the same time effectively combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings.
We can and must avoid further tragedies such as some that are still fresh in our minds. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Judicial cooperation between the States of the European Union, in both the civil and the criminal fields, is reaching levels which were unimaginable a few years ago.
The purpose of the recommendations we are debating today is, therefore, simply to achieve a degree of unification of procedural practices in the Member States, on the basis of the rights established in the European Convention on Human Rights, the case-law of the Strasbourg Court and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and within the framework of the judicial and criminal convergence which today is being achieved in the European Union, based on mutual recognition, described as the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in the civil and criminal fields in the Union by the Tampere European Council.
It was at that same important European Council that the foundations were laid which have led us to be here today discussing the minimum procedural safeguards for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings in the Union, since there was insistence there on the need to carry out work in relation to aspects of procedural law with regard to which it is considered necessary to have minimum common standards in order to facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition, respecting the fundamental legal principles of the Member States.
The Green Paper sets out the reasons why the proposals have been restricted to the five rights which appear in it: legal aid, translation and interpreting, information about rights, the protection of vulnerable suspects and defendants and consular assistance.
I wonder, Commissioner, Mr President, whether it would not have also been useful to have in some way considered the types of crime which affect all or the majority of States, which, to a certain extent, would have complemented the necessary unification of procedural practices.
I reject these amendments because the scheduled date for the entry into force of the European arrest warrant is January 2004 and because the arrest warrant in itself is based on reciprocal trust between the different judicial systems of the Member States, even though it is essential that the implementation of the minimum standards imposed by the framework decision is carried out urgently and as soon as possible.
The Commission shares his view about the crucial importance of setting common minimum standards on procedural safeguards.
A common set of minimum standards on safeguards is necessary to ensure that the fundamental rights of European Union citizens are respected in an equivalent way in the 25 Member States.
This measure does not, in fact, go further than the already existing provisions the European Convention on Human Rights and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.
It will highlight what is seen at EU level as essential for a fair trial and it will make mutual recognition measures operate more smoothly, since Member States will be more willing to accept that other Member States have proper safeguards in place.
I can even tell the honourable Members of the House that the Commission has presented a questionnaire to the Member States on this specific issue.
We have received the first answers and we will be presenting a first evaluation of these to the Justice and Home Affairs Council, which will meet tomorrow morning here in Brussels.
A communication on the subject is included in the Commission's work programme for 2003.
The Commission therefore decided to devote more time to this topic and conduct a specific study as soon as the first stage of the procedural safeguard work was complete.
Finally, on the questions of the conditions of prisoners in the European Union, the Commission recently prepared and sent a questionnaire on this issue to the competent authorities of the Member States.
The intention of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in producing this opinion was to stress and emphasise the need to protect the freedom of defendants.
What we must emphasise are not just cooperation and coordination between the Member States but definitive recognition of final criminal decisions, and the Committee on Legal Affairs is working to this end.
This initiative consequently represents a further important step towards creating a genuine European area of justice by defining a set of minimum standards in the field of procedural safeguards in the Member States.
Adopting these common standards is crucial to increasing the confidence and the faith which members of the public and the judicial authorities in one Member State have in the legal systems of all the other Member States.
The Community judicial instrument on which these common standards will be based is intended to improve procedural safeguards throughout the territory of the Union without lowering the level of protection that is guaranteed in the various Member States.
The list of these rights must be extended to the issues related to admissibility and weight of evidence, to the criteria for pre-emptive detention, to the actual conditions of detention, as well as to the right of appeal, which is important especially in terms of individual freedom.
Then, particularly innovative and of particular interest is the proposal for a written letter of rights stating the rights of suspects and defendants, to be handed to the defendant or suspect at the first contact with the authorities in proceedings concerning them and which must be detailed and available in several languages.
I should also like to congratulate the Commission on its efforts in this area, and I hope that it will maintain a high level of ambition, both in terms of the ultimate framework decision on minimum standards for the rights of suspects, and in decisions that will subsequently need to be taken.
My group takes the view that European agreements on matters of this kind are vital, because the Member States decided in Tampere to recognise each other's judicial decisions and to implement them unconditionally.
Mr Hernandez-Mollar, you stated that this trust is in place, but I think that this trust, which is desirable especially in a political context, is not sufficiently in place or sufficiently substantiated.
This shows how important it is that we first conclude agreements on minimum standards for the rights of the suspects before we start extraditing our own nationals in this way, without prescribing any further conditions.
I put it down to unnecessary interference from Brussels, but surely it is absurd that they themselves have already taken that step of a European arrest warrant, which is a very far-reaching measure on the road of European cooperation in the judicial sphere, and are now refusing to restore the balance between repression and civil rights, in respect of which civil rights agreements should be made at European level too.
It is therefore up to us MEPs to ensure that these civil rights are not brushed under the carpet, but that the balance is restored. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on the eve of the entry into force of the European arrest warrant, Parliament is expressing its opinion on a European Commission communication on procedural safeguards and the rights of the defence.
Despite your efforts, Commissioner, the planned framework decision on the matter has not yet been formally presented and, in its initial discussions, the Council has proved to be extremely divided over the need for and content of harmonised rights of defence.
I believe that there would have been no legal or political grounds for these worrying statements if the Commission and the Council had listened to Parliament’s requests regarding the harmonisation of procedural rights.
I am afraid, however, that it is too late and that the European arrest warrant will enter into force in a European climate marked by reluctance and delays in implementation on the part of the Member States.
In reality, however, we also have to realise that a lot of oppressive legislation has been brought in recently just one of the things mentioned tonight is the European arrest warrant and at the very least we need something to counterbalance that to ensure the rights of suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings.
There also needs to be an assurance in many Member States in relation to the right to bail: I believe people should have this right.
As many speakers have mentioned, we know that in many situations there are problems regarding access to legal representatives before and during trials.
Something needs to be put in there to guarantee the rights of suspects, because at the end of the day they are suspects: they have not been convicted and therefore their rights should be protected.
When we take into consideration the fact that a lot of repressive legislation has been passed by the European Union in recent times without any public debate or any real participation by the citizens in the Member States, the very least we can do is ensure that the rights of people are protected.
This is the situation in many countries as a result of the legislation has been brought in under the guise of combating terrorism.
I do not actually favour the European arrest warrant but, at the very least, minimum guarantees have to be put in place before any more legislation is agreed by the European Union.
The Union has, over the last months and years, infringed on people's very basic rights, which are enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights.
The presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial are basic things that anybody in a democracy would feel entitled to. &#160;&#160; .
This is clearly stated in our legislative programme, and that is what I said to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs during our structural dialogue on the priorities for next year.
To Mr Turco I should like to say that I do not even dare to imagine what would have been said if I had presented the Framework Decision before seeking the opinion of this Parliament on the Green Paper: first things first!
Provided you vote favourably as regards the Green Paper tomorrow I can guarantee you, Mr Turco, that the Framework Decision has arrived.
I can assure you that we have not been sleeping, but if you endorse our ideas the legislative instrument is ready to be presented to the Council.
Nevertheless, I will clearly say that I would not call a European arrest warrant 'oppressive legislation'.
That will help the Commission to bypass some of the resistance expressed by some Member States as far as this initiative is concerned. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (C5-0094/2003 – 2003/2042(DEC)). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this is the first time that we are to give discharge to these five agencies, and it is a new situation to which both parties must accustom themselves.
The agencies must firstly be responsible to Parliament, and that entails obligations.
I have had a constructive dialogue with several of the agencies.
All these agencies deserve special praise for their very proactive approach.
It is generally true to say that all the agencies are in a transitional phase, and they must adjust to the new Financial Regulation.
The different agencies have chosen different models, but what is common to all the agencies is that they themselves are now responsible for financial control.
The internal auditing service has no resources at all for investigating the control procedures in the agencies.
I am not perhaps as much in favour as some of my fellow MEPs of Parliament’s approving all the directors in turn, for we should then be attaching too much importance to the agencies.
We must instead devote our energies to monitoring the Commission, and that is something for which there is of course an absolute need in view of the way in which the Eurostat scandal has developed and the way in which all the Commissioners are disclaiming any form of political responsibility and are blaming the system.
Decentralised Community bodies have specific missions according to their respective founding regulations.
In view of enlargement, the communication argues in favour of an administrative board of reduced size with a composition reflecting the balance between the executive functions at Community level and the expertise of Member States' executives.
The Commission is expecting a reaction to this proposal from Council and Parliament before deciding on its final line.
In this communication the Commission proposed that a director should be appointed, depending on the case, by the management board or by the Commission.
A possible action in this field ought to be undertaken in the light of the forthcoming discussions with those institutions.
Only two agencies which do not receive subsidies from the Commission are not concerned, those at Angers and at Alicante.
It must therefore be able closely to circumscribe the action of the body responsible for technical assistance tasks and maintain real control over its operation and, in particular, its governing bodies.
The governing bodies of the decentralised agencies are composed of representatives of the Member States: the Commission is in a minority and there are questions as to whether this enables it to exercise the requisite level of accountability and control.
In accordance with the provisions of the framework regulation on executive agencies, the Commission is at present examining the creation of a dedicated agency to assist in the implementation of Community programmes in the field of education and culture, such as Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci, Youth etc.
The Commission will endeavour to follow up on all these issues as well as resolutions from the European Parliament in due time. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs I am pleased that today’s agenda also includes the discharge of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work.
This meets our central demand from last year, namely that there should be an individual discharge procedure for all decentralised agencies, thereby at last having equal treatment for the agencies.
It was therefore only logical that in our resolution on the Community strategy for health and safety at work for the period 2002-2006 in October last year we called on the Commission to prepare a multiannual programme for small and medium-sized enterprises in the future.
It is of course clear that there must in future too be the best possible coordination between the agencies in Bilbao and Dublin.
Even though there are no grounds for criticism from our point of view, we welcome the fact that the two agencies have concluded a specific cooperation agreement in order to improve complementarity and banish all danger of overlapping in their work.
But we shall remain very vigilant here, especially in the light of enlargement and a possible redefinition of agency policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I cannot tell you how excited I am to be here this evening to talk on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on this subject.
I welcome the fact that the new Financial Regulation gives us the power to scrutinise these agencies’ accounts and I also welcome the cooperative way in which they all worked with the European Parliament in this process.
The appointment must be by open process and must involve the European Parliament.
Indeed, Parliament should have the right to give its assent to such appointments and that is why the PPE-DE Group will vote to reject the Liberal amendment.
We want to ensure that there will always be the highest management standards, in particular by these agencies cooperating fully with OLAF, by sharing best practice amongst themselves because many of the management challenges are very similar and by ensuring that their boards are an effective instrument to hold management to account and are not just a bureaucratic and cosmetic gesture.
If boards become too big to assume their responsibilities in practice, agencies become vulnerable to become private fiefdoms an example of which we have seen in Eurostat.
I thank the rapporteur for all his work.
It is a contradiction for Parliament to have a say in appointing the ombudsman and the Commission President, while having no such right in respect of the agencies.
As a Parliament, therefore, as taxpayers’ representatives, we must insist on having a power of codecision in them, in the way they are appointed.
That is all those agencies like the European Food Safety Authority or the European Maritime Safety Agency, where they have said they will do something but they do not yet know where or when or how.
That is not addressed to you, but we do of course know that these agencies will have to start work somewhere sometime, and the Member States have proclaimed at the tops of their voices that they will, but they do not know when, they do not know where and they do not know how much it will cost.
Reiterated congratulations, by the way, to Mr Blak on his report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too am concerned that there is so little interest in discussing this type of matter, but I wonder whether this is a consequence of the way in which our activities are timetabled or of our approach to these matters.
I therefore believe that the European Parliament’s discharge of the budget must always allow for meaningful political debate.
Our examination of the budget of the five agencies that are the subject of this report should be seen in the context of these objectives and is geared towards achieving these priorities.
All of the report’s proposals to grant discharge are accompanied by Parliamentary motions for resolutions and it is precisely in these motions for resolution that Parliament must exercise its political power.
The report makes various observations and suggestions – which I will not list, because I have so little time – praising the words and the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the European Agency responsible for health and safety in the workplace.
Symptomatically, these concerns arise, as the Commissioner’s speech has just made clear, at a time when we are rapidly approaching a process of welcoming – at political level – new countries into the Community family.
Safeguarding the principle of representativeness and total equality between Member States is, in the current context, absolutely crucial. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, just a brief comment.
Really disappointing. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
This report is about the internal market.
It is about ensuring that the internal market operates fairly in terms of passenger cars and that the current obstacles which are there, in part, in the range of taxation currently levied, are evened out so that the internal market in this particular area is enabled to function much better than it does at the moment.
What inevitably happens is that people who sell cars vary the prices to take account of registration tax in various Member States.
The way to deal with this and to make the internal market fairer and more of a level playing field is to do away with this tax altogether, but to do it gradually.
On all levels it is something which we would welcome.
Members may or may not know that there is a tax in the UK on petrol to take account of CO2 emissions a green tax which works very well.
Those are my two recommendations in this report.
On the other hand, it also provided some policy measures which would establish a more direct relationship between taxation levels and the polluting emissions of passenger cars, thus contributing to the Community's environmental objectives under the Kyoto Protocol.
This pragmatic approach allowed for a more favourable position on behalf of the Member States on a potential fresh proposal compared to the position they took in 1998 on the previous proposal which still remains on the table in the Council.
The Commission hopes that the European Parliament will provide strong support to the policy measures included in the communication and thus reinforce the Commission's position during future discussions at the Council.
The first pillar was a self-imposed commitment by the motor industry to reduce emissions to 140&#160;g by 2008.
That seems to be working.
I believe we also need a change of heart for the sake of the consumer, however, because we really do have a patchwork of tax legislation.
The price advantage is not being passed on to consumers because the effect is being absorbed by this patchwork of taxes in the European Union.
That is another reason why, more than ever, we need a framework for sensible motor vehicle taxation in the European Union to enable consumers to benefit from this internal market advantage.
Furthermore, however, when a car is sold for transfer to another Member State there are actually a good number of problems.
Ten years ago the Court of Justice of the European Communities stated in the famous Nunes Tadeu case that in no single case may the tax levied on a car be more than the proportion that car tax makes up of the market price of a similar used car.
I just rang a certain Finnish person who brought a Mercedes, registered in 1995 and bought in Germany, into Finland.
This is how the internal market works in Europe.
Mr&#160;Bolkenstein, we still have a lot of work to do regarding this matter before the people of Europe see that the EU actually works for the good of them, the private citizens of Europe.
The EU is certainly no tax haven but reasonable motoring costs should be permitted in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, reducing the administrative obstacles to the freedom of movement of vehicles and persons and defining a direct link between the current annual circulation tax applied to light passenger vehicles and a vehicle’s environmental impact are only two of the concerns expressed by Europe’s citizens and are concerns to which the Commission wishes to respond positively.
The passenger vehicle market in the European Union today is fragmented into fifteen completely different national segments, which creates distortions and penalties that affect not only the citizens but also the automobile industry itself.
It will not be easy to harmonise these policies completely in the next few years not that this is the issue today partly because we know that some States that tax vehicles are concerned not so much about the harmful environmental effects of these vehicles as about the volume of tax revenues that they can channel towards their budgets.
Furthermore, it is worth emphasising that this report is important and useful and that its proposals and recommendations are balanced and broadly correct.
It could have gone further in its proposals for an annual reform of the circulation tax, linking these to a more rapid abolition of the registration tax.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party believes in the need to take great care with tax legislation at EU level.
Allow me to say a word or two about the environmental aspect.
Through the Kyoto Protocol, the EU Member States have promised considerably to reduce, rather than increase, emissions.
The issue of tax on diesel fuel is also interesting.
These are important points of view.
The ELDR Group has tabled an amendment rejected by the committee.
If we can produce safer cars through favourable taxation, that is something it should be possible to experiment with.
As the report rightly emphasises, the functioning of the internal market is affected by the diversity, the heterogeneity and sometimes the complexity of tax systems.
We need to give priority to environmental criteria in order to achieve the Kyoto objectives, as the report rightly reminds us.
The logical consequence of the ‘polluter pays’ principle would be to levy less tax on something that pollutes less.
We must never forget, however, that from the environmental point of view and also for geopolitical reasons, the final objective must be to replace current fuels with non-contaminating and non-conflicting sources of energy.
The effects of any levies to curb car use and to promote new environmentally-friendly technology need to be assessed.
Yesterday, Tuesday, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs rejected the proposal on the harmonisation of diesel excise.
In view of the proposals for harmonisation of diesel excise and passenger car taxation, what options do you, Commissioner Bolkestein, see, by means of an exchange of interests between the Member States, of reaching a compromise with which the Council and Parliament could agree?
We are assured that we need not worry and that it does not really affect our democratic right to set our own taxes.
The cumulative effect of these proposals is to strip the Member States of very real and serious powers regarding setting taxes and to remove democratic accountability from the setting of taxes, which is dangerous for democracy and is certainly unacceptable to those who elected me to represent them in this House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the previous speaker will probably be amazed to find that I agree with everything she said.
In short, this is a confused and confusing report and its aim, in my view, along with the Commission communication, is to use fiscal initiatives to impose harmonisation on the grounds of environmental objectives, despite this not being an area of competence for the EU.
For my part, taxation is sacrosanct to each Member State. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it would seem the expressions of support by these political groups conflict a good deal with regard to this issue.
There are considerable barriers to transfer of cars from one Member State to another, which are still being caused by differences in tax legislation as well as inflexible administrative practices.
The Commission proposal to phase out registration tax would be a solution to most of the tax-related problems, and it should be done as quickly as possible.
The Council should seriously consider what in the final analysis serves the interest of the citizens of the Union where these issues are concerned.
Thus, for example, the taxation of fuels should take account of the environmentally friendly aspect by lowering taxes on liquid fuels in this category.
Car taxation could also take account of the environmentally friendly aspect either in the form of reductions in possible circulation taxes or tax benefits for optional environmentally friendly devices.
On the one hand, there is no doubt that simplifying the existing vehicle tax system to remove obstacles and distortions to the free circulation of passenger cars within the internal market is long overdue.
In fact, the prospect of a free market in cars was one of the most talked-about issues dangled tantalisingly in front of our citizens as we embarked on the single market in Ireland, in any case.
My country is one of the ten member states with a vehicle registration tax.
This keeps the prices of passenger cars and all road vehicles amongst the most expensive in the EU, including imports of used cars.
Our cars are all imported, contributing nothing to employment and adversely affecting our balance of payments.
On the other hand, the Irish Exchequer obtains over EUR 800 million annually from VRT, this equates to a 2% increase in the standard rate of income tax and indicates the problems that would ensue if VRT were to be reduced or abolished.
In conclusion, the future for our single market must lie in a car taxation system which is visibly CO2 modulated, but without central prescription.
The rate of this tax should fully reflect each Member State's requirements environmental, economic and physical.
We will not truly have a single market in the area of passenger cars and road vehicles until we all start driving on the same side of the road so that we can all have either left-hand or right-hand drive cars.
I understand that many Members of Parliament would have preferred a more ambitious report, especially as far as the measures to be taken against the fragmentation of the internal market are concerned.
The Commission will take the conclusion of this report seriously into account before taking any initiative in this area.
The fact that a number of different approaches have been voiced in this room tonight provides an indication of how difficult it will be to reach a unanimous decision in Council on such policy measures.
With reference to the conclusions of the report, the Commission would like to express its gratitude to the European Parliament for the strong support it has given to policy measures, such as those necessary to abolish registration taxes (paragraph 16), to bring forward changes in order to introduce an environmentally-oriented tax system (paragraphs 12 and 13), and to use tax differentials as a tool to promote passenger cars producing less than 120 grammes per kilometre of carbon dioxide emissions (paragraph 7).
Additionally, the Commission agrees in principle with a large number of paragraphs, such as 1, 4, 6, 10, 11, 14, 17, 18, 19 and 21.
Concerning paragraphs 2, 3 and 15, the Commission does not share the view that existing barriers to free circulation of passenger cars within the internal market are due only to administrative practices or procedures.
The Commission considers that a clear reference to tax barriers, and particularly to double taxation caused by registration taxes, should be stated in these paragraphs, as is the case under the relevant part of the explanatory statement.
With regard to paragraph 5, which refers to the Annual Circulation Tax, the Commission does not share the view that this tax does not affect the functioning of the internal market.
Diversified tax bases and important divergences in ACT levels can provide an incentive to citizens to register their car in a Member State other than the one where they normally reside, which means this tax does affect the internal market.
I listened with great interest to the brief altercation between some British Members of Parliament, whilst thinking of Minister Dawn Primarolo, who spent four years ironing out harmful tax measures.
Next time such Members of Parliament who have spoken on this matter meet Minister Primarolo, they might perhaps give her a piece of their mind and tell her that she has wasted four years of her time in trying to stamp out fiscal competition.
That said, I should like once again to thank Parliament and the rapporteur for their efforts and their supportive report. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It was not in the first group of states to begin their journeys towards the European Union but, in the course of this afternoon, we will hear an account of how substantial and how successful that journey has been in a very brief period of time.
I am the first leader of Lithuania to have an opportunity to address the European Parliament.
Among the Members of this House there are many devoted friends of Lithuania who supported my country's independence.
Your support inspired us when we were making the first steps towards membership of the European Union and I thank you for your support.
I hope that our states, too, will equally successfully join the family of Member States.
For us, this reflection of fifteenth century Europe is an important and symbolic sight.
In spring 2003 90% of those voting in the referendum came out in favour of Lithuania's membership of the European Union.
We are moving towards membership of the European Union with a clear vision of Lithuania as an active and responsible member of the European family.
Our goal is to create a democratic state, and this is enshrined in this strategy for the country's development, approved by Parliament.
Our plans to become party to the Schengen Agreement and European Monetary Union between 2005 and 2009 may seem ambitious, yet they are an important part of our agenda and they will be implemented.
This new stage in the history of Lithuania opens up vast possibilities to promote and implement our national interests.
The private sector and free enterprise account for over 80% of GDP which, last year, grew by 7%.
There is no truth, however, that one learns by comparing and I admit that Lithuania and other post-Communist states are moving towards membership in the European Union in the face of a big gap in economic development between 'old' and 'new' Europe.
This gap has never been as great in previous enlargements and this cannot be masked by declarations or resolutions.
Our primary goal is to bridge the gap in economic development between the old and new Member States.
The sooner the new Member States catch up with the older ones, the greater the competitiveness of Europe will be, and the stronger Europe will be.
This would become an important element in the Baltic region's economic development strategy.
It would be a big mistake to see a difference drawn between the core of Europe and the periphery of Europe and I am talking not in terms of geography, but in terms of economic and social development.
The European Union is and will remain a very important factor in building Lithuania as a welfare state.
That is why it is important to provide measures in the European Union to bridge not only the economic gap but also the gap in social development.
Lithuania supports simple and transparent principles for the formation of the EU budget.
Lithuania will be responsible for one-fifth of the external border of the European Union.
History tells us that without good neighbours a Union cannot be strong.
Let me emphasise, separately, the importance of Russia as a strategic partner of the European Union.
The Kaliningrad Region has a special place in this partnership.
I suggest that we focus on the social and economic development of the Kaliningrad Region, and we are ready to share our experience gained in dealing with Kaliningrad and also with the whole north-western region of Russia.
I have written to President Cox and other leaders of the European Union about this.
The draft Constitutional Treaty proposed by the European Convention provides a good democratic and institutional balance which is acceptable to Lithuania.
This document, however, still needs to be amended and made more precise.
We must find solutions to sensitive and open issues and also launch a discussion on issues that were not discussed by the Convention.
The main challenge faced by the IGC is agree on the institutional reform of the Union.
Every state must have equal rights and possibilities in the Union.
The search for compromise, which is a characteristic feature of the European Union, will be particularly important in the enlarged Union.
It is important that we base our existence on common values, democracy, respect for human dignity and transparency.
All of this will serve to guarantee long-term success for the European Union.
A reference to Christian roots in the preamble to the Constitution would have a unifying and symbolic meaning, because modern Europe was formed on the basis of specific values.
Alongside institutional issues, the IGC faces an important discussion on common foreign security and defence issues.
The political developments in the world and the Iraqi crisis have demonstrated that, in the area of foreign policy, Europe must be able to coordinate its actions and speak with one voice.
The future security strategy of the European Union must enshrine these principles.
In February 2003, while being sworn in as President of Lithuania, I outlined the main strategic goals of the Lithuanian State.
I also said that, while in Europe, Lithuania will expand the area of stability and security.
