Common organisation of the market in wine (debate) The next item is the report by Giuseppe Castiglione, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine and amending certain Regulations - C6-0254/2007 -.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you for giving me this opportunity to make a few comments about the reform of our wine sector.
For example, I am open to putting into the envelope certain ideas concerning innovation and the restructuring of wine sellers, but I think we still need to keep a clear demarcation line between what is possible within the national envelopes and what is possible within rural development policy, to avoid a situation where you can actually finance an investment from both sides, what is called the 'double guichet'.
I would give only one example: crisis distillation, which has now become a routine structural measure and is no longer a means of responding to emergency situations.
For this reason, Commissioner, we saw fit in the report to extend the list of available measures: we decided to include restructuring of the sector, research, innovation and qualitative improvements.
It seems in fact that the number of hectares eligible for grubbing-up has fallen from 200 000 to 175 000.
We have put into this reform... (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a long and sometimes contentious debate on this subject.
The common organisation of the market in wine is part of that process.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, today the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission are to decide on the future of one of the most complex common organisations of agricultural markets in Europe.
Commissioner, I would like to stress certain points which you must take into account in the Council's final decision on reform of the common organisation of the wine market.
Commissioner, the European Parliament wants a new common organisation of the market which will prioritise an aggressive promotion policy rather than a defensive import policy.
The European Parliament's report will secure aid for vine-growers who apply measures to stabilise supply, upgrade quality and protect the environment.
It is due, Commissioner, to the cultural dimension of this product, which we should respect in our proposals.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, in vino veritas or, to quote Goethe, life is too short to drink bad wine.
In 2006, wine production accounted for 5% of the total value of agricultural output in the EU.
I believe we have moulded the initial technocratic solution into a new elegant shape.
It is equally necessary to limit the reduction in European wine production, as proposed by the Commission, by increasing the Member States' autonomy to govern the grubbing-up scheme.
We are therefore in favour of allocating the earmarked resources over three years rather than five and distributing them primarily on the basis of historical data, broadly according to the same criterion used for all other reforms adopted until now.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say to Mr Castiglione that - as the Minister, Mr De Castro, has said - the proposal having emerged from the committee responsible and now before Parliament is worse than the one originally put forward by the Commissioner.
I would ask Parliament the following: why must we expel dozens or even hundreds of workers and farmers in order to make way for large multinationals, as is happening in Sicily, Mr Castiglione?
on behalf of the IND/DEM group. - (CS) Mr Chairman, the proposed wine sector reform puts the Czech Republic at a disadvantage and discriminates against it.
The use of sucrose has been a tradition in our country for over 200 years.
The subsidy for the Czech Republic works out at EUR 85 per hectare of vineyards, while some favoured countries receive as much as EUR 245.
We demand therefore that the money for the wine sector reform be put into the national envelopes so that the Member States can allocate it according to their own needs.
The total area of those illegal vineyards actually equals the number of hectares that the EU needs to grub up.
However, some EU countries produce unsellable wines at the cost of EUR 500 million a year.
The Slovak Republic and other Member States have carried out an uncompromising reduction of their wine sector, which is the reason why they no longer produce unsellable wines.
We are on time, for the first time in a long while: Parliament is going to draw up a report that can be used by the Council to determine its ultimate political decision this weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen, there is a shortage of funds for rural development because a political decision taken in December 2005 did not provide enough money for the second pillar.
Commissioner, at a time when we are about to start discussing the Health Check and, something which is of particular interest to us, the scenario for agriculture after 2013, it is vital that this reform be completed quickly.
As far as the liberalisation of planting rights is concerned, the postponement until 2013 might be acceptable for wines protected by designations of origin and geographical indications.
So as to achieve a balanced situation for other wines, liberalisation should be allowed only following the Commission's impact assessment, to be carried out before the end of 2012. (PL) Mr President, one of the fundamental problems of the wine market is that more and more wine is being imported from third countries.
My fellow citizens are interested in two criteria, namely price and quality.
At stake are the European wine-growing heritage and the future of vast regions which not only form wine production areas with designations of origin or geographical indications, but also areas producing good table wines.
I do not wish to take your scalp, Commissioner; All I want is for winemakers, who have been making people happy for over 2 000 years, to be left alone. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking our rapporteur for doing everything that was humanly possible to arrive at this compromise.
Ever since the Commission first presented a document on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine and again in today's discussion, we have seen that wine is one of the most sensitive of agricultural products; it is one of the most sophisticated but also stirs the emotions like few other products.
Commissioner, I feel that for stakeholders used to working with this COM, with back-up from the current market measures, this is the way to help them through the transition to diversification and guide them into the new COM which - I hope - the House will adopt tomorrow. (FR) Commissioner, I hope you can hear the message from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which has made significant amendments to your reform proposal.
What matters is maintaining the oenological practices that give European wines their quality and identity.
The Commission's proposal offers the possibility of referring to a specific place of origin: for example, wine from the coasts of Provence, wine from Andalusia, wine from Tuscany, etc.
The Commission has not submitted a single serious report to show that liberalisation, elimination of these rights, in 2013 or whenever, will benefit the wine market. (EL) Mr President, the Commission's proposal aims to reduce funding and concentrate this sector in the large cartels.
We must therefore maintain quality and the tradition and also adopt a more aggressive policy: we should advertise because it is only here in Europe that consumption of alcohol is increasing among young people - an extremely unwelcome fact - while their consumption of wine is decreasing, and this shows that there is a lack of information. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this reform undoubtedly rewrites the fundamentals of the wine sector to make it competitive on world markets.
Furthermore, it is for the sake of quality that we have improved the Commission's proposal on certain points, such as on grubbing-up with reference to the time frame and the ecological constraints, and on the liberalisation of planting rights with the provisos recalled during this debate.
In vino veritas, the ancient Romans used to say.
However, unless there is an increase in the de minimis level of production to 50 000 hl, the UK would have to impose a planting ban up until 2014.
Mr Castiglione has done a wonderful job - we had 795 amendments - and, by seeking a compromise, has got the amendments down to manageable levels.
As was the case back in 1999, we have managed, by dint of tenacity and resourcefulness and in close cooperation with the trade, particularly in the cross-party working group on wine, to work out a compromise with which the wine trade in both southern and northern Europe should be able to live, provided that growers produce good wines and vintners are able to market them effectively inside and outside the EU.
The important thing is that the reforms help to guarantee sufficient production potential in terms of quantity and quality to maintain our global market lead and to ensure that we in the EU and elsewhere drink far more wine for the sake of our health! (Applause) (PL) Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur.
In addition, I would also like to express my gratitude to all members of the Committee on Agriculture for the hard work they have put into achieving consensus on such an essential but also very complicated issue as reform of the market in wine.
Wines produced using fruits such as apples and currants are marketed under the designation of fruit wine or wine named after the fruit in question.
The current rules for the wine sector are unsustainable.
It is much better to have a debate than to make an unfair decision.
Thank you very much. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that wine regulation up to now has been bad, and at the same time it is very questionable whether this wine reform will be good.
The concept of grubbing aid is flawed, since it is very attractive for the poorest Member States.
We in the new Member States will also have to grub grapes that produce good quality.
Thank you for your attention. (PL) Madam President, the main aim of this reform should be to achieve sustainability and improved competitiveness for the Union's wine sector.
Thirdly, the de minimis level should be increased to 50 000 hectolitres, for example.
The change would not have any impact on the Community market in wine. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, as we have heard today, the tradition of viniculture goes back hundreds of years.
For this reason, I believe we should support the old compromise package, which will enable us, among other things, to preserve regional winemaking cultures and traditions. - (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, there is no doubt that new rules of play are needed in the wine-making sector.
Each of our countries has different climatic conditions and different traditions.
In my country sugar has been used for wine enrichment for over 200 years; it is a traditional method.
However, modernisation and restructuring are necessary to make wines more marketable.
The role of marketing and the provision of a larger national budgetary framework are particularly important in the interests of making investments to promote the change in structure, especially in the new Member States.
As wine merchants put pressure on producers to lower their prices, they in turn cannot afford to pay the growers adequate prices for their grapes.
The danger is that vineyards will be destroyed in areas where no surplus wine is being produced.
I am sure visitors to all the various wine-growing regions of Europe will appreciate and enjoy sampling the characteristic wines produced from locally-grown grapes. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, yes, a reform of the COM in wine is desirable, but are the means put forward by the Commission the most suitable?
From the Brussels viewpoint, we can understand the mathematical equation between a decrease in production and a decrease in the number of producers, but from the viewpoint of south-west France, the plains of Italy, the Spanish or Portuguese coasts, Commissioner, I can assure you that it is not the same thing, and this is an issue which should not be observed through the prism of the economist's spectacles.
This is a good thing, because the Commission's proposal on this point is extremely restrictive.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I can hear that you, as well as the rest of the Members of the European Parliament, take a huge interest in the future of the European wine sector.
I do not have enough time at this stage to go into details, and we have already had in-depth discussions in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, so I am just going to leave you with quite a simple message with regard to the future of our wine reform.
I am quite sure that a reform will make a huge difference for our wine sector and it is time to do a deal because, as rightly mentioned here today, we see an increase in imports, we see an increase in production, but we see a reduction in domestic consumption.
It is time to do a deal because we can spend the budget of the wine sector in a much more intelligent way or in a better way than we do today, in ways which will strengthen the sector and also make much more sense to the public and to the taxpayers.
The compromise that we find must give us a reform worthy of the name and it must give us a real chance of achieving the goals that we have set for ourselves.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) Italy and the Italian Members of this House have always defended the European project, in the interests of social rights, consumer protection and our citizens' quality of life.
The European agricultural policy came about in order to support our farmers and enhance the quality of European produce, so as to strengthen the EU's position in the world marketplace.
Today, however, with the vote on the reform of the wine market, we have taken several steps backwards in this sector, especially in the Mediterranean countries and regions to which Europe owes the fame and success painstakingly acquired by European wines worldwide.
