Application of the Schengen acquis - Application of the Schengen acquis in the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the Council Declaration on application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis, and the report by Carlos Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council decision on the full application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic (11722/2007 - C6-0244/2007 -.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely delighted to be here today before this House, on behalf of the Presidency and the Portuguese Republic, to discuss the imminent enlargement of the Schengen area.
Indefinitely postponing the satisfaction of the reasonable expectations of free movement of citizens from the Member States which joined the European Union in 2004 would not only have been an intolerable demonstration of technological incapacity but also, in particular, a heavy defeat for the European ideal and evidence of the impotence and incompetence of our institutions and Member States.
On 31 August we managed to finish installing the applications and migrating the data which was a difficult and complex process.
Last week, on 8 November, the JHA Council learnt that the Member States in question have demonstrated a sufficient degree of preparation in order to satisfactorily apply both the provisions not relating to the SIS and the provisions relating to the Schengen Information System of the Schengen acquis.
I should like to thank, here in this House, everyone who implemented the changes and carried out the assessment programme in recent months.
We do not need a technology tsar but rather a great deal of work in a democratic network involving the Commission, Member States and the European Parliament, as was demonstrated in exemplary fashion in this case.
We took due note of your recommendations and we are counting on your representation at the commemorative ceremonies to mark the historic enlargement of the European area of free movement, which will take place on 21 and 22 November.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate all the Member States on their achievements in making it possible for citizens in Poland, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia, Malta and in the current Schengen countries to finally fully benefit from the free movement of persons, which is one of the pillars of the European Union.
I congratulate you personally, and Ministers of the Interior, Minister Costa and Minister Pereira, on your strategic partnership and clarity of purpose for the successful implementation of the Schengen information system project, known as 'SIS One For All'.
Our ultimate goal is to make Schengen Information System II fully operational by December 2008.
rapporteur. - (PT) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Schengen area is one of the greatest successes in the history of European integration.
I want to congratulate them not only on their entry into this area but also, in particular, on the systematic and committed effort that they have made to meet all the requirements laid down by the strict Schengen rules.
The evaluation teams were composed of experts from all the Member States.
Mr President, the absence of internal borders not only requires better controls at the external borders and a good exchange of information and data through the Schengen Information System (SIS), it is notably an exercise in mutual trust in which everyone must strictly comply with the adopted rules.
That is why we also ask that a global evaluation of the functioning of the Schengen area is carried out within two years, involving all the Member States, both new and old.
Finally, I want to thank the Portuguese Presidency for its commitment and spirit of cooperation, in particular the Portuguese Government and the Portuguese Secretary of State, José Magalhães, who is here today, and for the solution found with SISone4all, as already underlined by Vice-President Frattini.
If this had not occurred, given the delay with SIS II, it would not have been possible to extend the Schengen area this year.
I would like to remind it once again that the creation of SIS II continues to be a priority for the European Parliament, not necessarily to allow the new Member States to access the system, as this has been solved with SISone4all, but mainly because, within the Community framework, it will enable more efficient use of data, thereby improving security through both the inclusion of biometric data and the interlinking of alerts.
Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I come from a town on the border of Austria and Hungary.
Furthermore, we must not allow ourselves to undermine widespread social support for the right to move freely.
For this very reason, I would like to express my thanks again that the Schengen system can be extended to these nine new Member States.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, on behalf of my group I, too, would like to congratulate the citizens of the nine new Member States on the present that the Portuguese Presidency will be giving them on 21 and 22 December.
It is very important that the expansion of the Schengen area does not jeopardise our security.
We are glad that in the case of these nine Member States the Portuguese Presidency has found a solution with a sort of SIS 1+, although we maintain that progress must be made as soon as possible on SIS II.
We understand that Bulgaria and Romania still have to wait a number of years, but we also hope that these countries will continue to work hard, with our help, so that in a few years they can also join the Schengen area.
It has rightly been indicated that the enlargement of the Schengen area and the entire Schengen system requires mutual solidarity between the Member States.
As I have already said, controlling the external borders is a task that affects all our security and in which the nine countries concerned are now involved.
We must also agree that we will not try to solve the problems unilaterally, but that we will seek to cooperate, with all the countries that belong to the Schengen area working together to solve the problems that arise in the future.
In particular, the problem with SIS II, which has been delayed for reasons which are unacceptable and have been much criticised by Parliament.
As we have heard, we need SIS II in order to strengthen security within the new enlarged area.
We must now ensure that the Schengen enlargement does not lead to a Schengen iron curtain against these.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the Portuguese Presidency on being able to create an agreement and understanding with regard to the enlargement of Schengen, and indeed it is historic.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, first of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate the new Member States, including my own state, Latvia, on the occasion of joining the Schengen area.
I also thank Portugal for its SIS I initiative, which has opened the way to free movement for many Europeans.
Many thanks to all the people who were involved in this work and did their best in order to make this Christmas gift possible.
A good job has been done in order to enlarge the Schengen area, but now we have a new task - maybe a more difficult one - to make the area of freedom and liberty a guaranteed area for everyone.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too, on behalf of my Group, believe that today is a very important day because we are extending the possibility of free movement for many Community citizens.
Furthermore, we have our doubts about the implementation of SIS II: we are very concerned, and believe that in certain cases these exchanges of information do not afford proper protection for sensitive data.
We therefore think that a very tangible step forward has been taken today in the building of the European Union, yet at the same time we have sent out a very negative signal about the form and substance of this European Union.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of my colleague Mr Blokland.
For this reason it is necessary for a functional SIS to be operational in the short term.
Can the Commission, in its Schengen assessment, also focus on the free movement of people from countries that belong to the Union but not to the Schengen area?
Nonetheless, it is a very good thing that the Iron Curtain has finally been consigned to history. (SK) I believe that the new Member States, including the Slovak Republic, are all well prepared to join the Schengen area.
The Slovak Republic has fulfilled the individual criteria in the area of Schengen cooperation and has therefore fulfilled all the basic conditions, so that Slovak citizens will be able to enjoy the removal of internal border controls on the ground from December 2007 and from March 2008 in the air as well.
The Slovak Republic implemented the Schengen acquis in regard to the Schengen Information System by 1 September 2007 and police information is now flowing through the system in both directions.
I trust that the European Union will soon grant our citizens another right to which they are entitled, which is the right to work without restrictions in other EU countries and that European Union will no longer give priority to workers from third countries but will instead prioritise EU citizens from the Eastern Europe. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I myself represent Lower Bavaria, which borders on the Czech Republic, here in the European Parliament.
As a political representative, may I say in all honesty that many people were not convinced that this would work as well as it has, or that our East European friends, one for all, would implement SIS in this way.
I would also like to thank Carlos Coelho.
The fact that the European Parliament is playing such a major role when it comes to Schengen is due to our rapporteur.
I would like to see Frontex taking on responsibility for the evaluation of standards at the external borders in future.
Thank you, Mrs Belohorská.
The SIS is a necessary safeguard to secure the normal functioning of the Schengen area and it should definitely be left open to future complements.
Working off the threats and maintaining a flexible nature is essential for the SIS to address the challenges that this enlargement brings about. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spirit of the Schengen Treaty is about safeguarding the security of European citizens.
They are now giving rise to appalling security problems, and the European Union must think not only about European citizens' rights, but also about their security.
We have nothing against any ethnic group or population group, still less against our brothers in Eastern Europe; however, we do not want criminals moving around freely in our land.
There were objections from Germany and Austria in particular, which maintained that enlarging the existing Schengen Information System to include the new countries was not possible.
The system of open borders has always demanded a further transfer of competences and ever-closer police cooperation, which will eventually result in a full-blown European police force, prosecutors and criminal law, with their positive but also their negative aspects.
The famous European solidarity is completely lacking here and this has to be said. (PL) Mr President, the decision on the Schengen issue was mission impossible, as Mr Magalhães stated.
Preparations for this decision have lasted at least 10 years, and have been very intense in the last two of these.
Thanks are also due to Mr Frattini for his favourable attitude and commitment to this splendid achievement, which is without precedent in the course of history. (DE) Mr President, extending the Schengen area to include nine new Member States is an historic step which completes the enlargement of the European Union and dismantles those borders where once the Iron Curtain separated our nations.
I would therefore like to welcome the citizens of our neighbour countries to our common area of free movement.
On 21 December, Europe will move a step closer together.
This is good for its people, and it is good for Europe. (PT) Once again, many thanks to Mr Coelho, our President-in-Office and Commissioner Frattini. (PL) Mr President, Poland is to join the Schengen area on 21 December of this year along with other new Member Sates.
We would like to thank Commissioner Frattini for the help that these Member States have received.
In this way, history now admits that our young heroes of 1956 were right.
At the same time, we must do everything to extend this zone as soon as possible to Bulgaria and Romania, who acceded recently.
Thank you for the floor. (PL) Mr President, along with previous speakers I would like to thank the Portuguese Presidency for its very determined work on enlarging the Schengen system.
I welcome the fact that one of the last remaining differences of treatment between citizens of the old and the new Union will disappear on 21 December of this year.
There will finally be a tangible benefit for citizens from membership of the European Union.
It is very important that no new iron curtain should fall between the countries that have just joined and their neighbouring countries.
