Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B7-0223/2009).
Subject: Commission action to foster an environment that spurs corporate investment in research and encourages banks to finance that investment 2009 is the European Year of Creativity and Innovation.
Unfortunately, 2009 has been marked by an economic and financial crisis affecting all the EU Member States and restricting private companies' access to financing instruments.
In preparation for these three major programmes, the Commission put forward a long-term strategy and an action plan in 2005 and 2006.
The action plan was put forward in 2005, while the broadly-framed innovation strategy dates from 2006.
The cohesion funds are new and better suited to the aim of promoting research and innovation and it is really remarkable if you look at the figures - the provision for these areas in the cohesion and structural funds for the stated period is EUR 86 billion, which, in any case, is 25% of the total structural and cohesion funds.
The programme to promote innovation and competitiveness, which I am responsible for, is also essentially a programme that creates funding instruments.
The Commission reacted very quickly to this threat in November 2008.
The European Economic Recovery Plan, which complements the Member States' measures to combat the economic crisis and aims to provide impetus and counter the difficult situation in the financial sector, is heavily focused on the areas of investment in research and development and promoting investment.
I will give you three examples: the Factories of the Future initiative, which relates to the modernisation of Europe's industrial base, with EUR 1.2 billion in funding; the Energy-efficient Buildings initiative, for which EUR 1 billion has been allocated; and the Partnership for Building Green Cars, which has also been allocated EUR 1 billion in the field of research, topped up with expenditure amounting to EUR 4 billion from other economic measures.
Without giving away any secrets - as President Barroso has already discussed this in his guidelines - I can also say that research, development and innovation will play an absolutely key role in the next growth and employment strategy.
If we understand innovation to be the practical application of research and development work for products, services, design and methods - in other words, anything where a practical application is possible - we still see a huge potential to create additional growth and additional employment in Europe.
An 'act' in this sense is a new political instrument that we developed for the first time in connection with small and medium-sized enterprises - you will remember the Small Business Act - and we will be bringing forward an innovation act that brings together legislative measures, policy initiatives and politically-binding guidelines in a major package.
The preparatory work, however, has already made good progress and I think I can say with certainty that Parliament will be dealing with the subject of this innovation act within the next year.
I am very pleased to see, however, that the new Member States - especially those that are in greatest need of catching up - are also making up ground the quickest, so that I see developments overall as positive. (RO) Thank you for the information and answer you have provided.
I want to reiterate that the crucial problem for our small and medium-sized enterprises is attaining the necessary venture capital in order to be able to pay for research and development.
The checklist is a tool that will help inform consumers in the Member States of their rights - notably on billing - and assist with the implementation and enforcement of energy legislation.
Member of the Commission. - Mr Tarabella, your question is very much concentrated on why the Charter was dropped.
The idea of a charter that would create a single piece of legislation covering consumer rights that are currently included in a number of European directives and numerous national implementation instruments was rejected for legal reasons.
The energy consumer rights that are in the existing European legislation are already legally binding.
That is the reason why EFSA is not in a position to complete the examination of all 4 000 claims within the time limit of December 2010.
But I think it is very important for the consumers that we finish this process and that they know exactly when they see a claim, and they see some food in the supermarket with a claim, they will know for sure that this is based on science and is not misleading. (PL) I would like to thank the Commissioner for this information - what you are doing is, indeed, very important.
The Commission also promotes knowledge of rights through its consumer education initiatives such as the 'Europe diary' that targets students aged between 15 and 18 and Dolceta - a website targeting adults and teachers.
Last but not least, in October 2008, the Commission presented its proposal for a directive on consumer rights, which is currently the subject of negotiations in Parliament and Council.
Member of the Commission. - This is very much in the domain of the public authorities in the Member States.
I am very eager to continue in the European Commission, together with Parliament, to benchmark and measure how consumers are treated and how much Member States invest in this policy.
It is about the market and the retail market, but there is something more, something in addition, which is the issue of rights, enforcement, consumer complaints, and how to devise a more relevant policy.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is well aware of this practice by car hire companies and has responded to a number of other parliamentary questions and citizens' complaints about it.
EUR 45 is the difference since, for the average car, it costs EUR 60 to fill the petrol tank.
As agreed during the last IMCO Committee meeting, this own-initiative report will cover both the consumer-market scoreboard and the legislation enforcement which we are talking about, for which the Commission had issued a communication on 2 July 2009.
But, est modus in rebus, we really need to find the responsibility of the Member State and that of the Commission.
Subject: Action programme for reducing administrative burdens in the EU In January 2007, the Commission launched the Action Programme for reducing administrative burdens in the European Union, in order to measure administrative costs arising from legislation in the EU and reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012.
Mr Papastamkos, this question gives me the opportunity to relate to you a very pleasing tale of success.
Anyone can say that they are cutting costs by 25% when no one knows how high the bureaucracy costs actually are in Europe.
In other words, we produce 50% of those costs here in Strasbourg or in Brussels.
If we did not have these European rules, there would be 27 sets of different national rules in all these areas, and the burden on European businesses - insofar as they participate in the internal market - would be much greater.
Nonetheless, we believe that EUR 124 billion is too high a figure and that, through better lawmaking, we can both fully achieve the goals of our legislation and reduce the costs involved.
The potential savings from those measures that the Commission has proposed and that legislators have not yet adopted amount to EUR 31 billion per annum.
I am pleased to be able to report to you that all 27 Member States now have comparable programmes in force.
It will not surprise you, however, when I say that not one Member State has so far managed to attain the highly successful figures I have been able to relate to you today for the EU's measures. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, in the Commission's action programme dated 22 October, you refer, among other things, to the exception for micro entities from accounting requirements.
In my opinion, Commissioner, there are other more important obstacles of a legislative, administrative and fiscal nature.
In other words, Mr Papastamkos, you have a lot of convincing to do.
This measure will save such businesses EUR 7 billion a year in costs.
The fact that tourism is now to occupy its own place in Europe's Treaties, however, will mean that tourism will gain in significance within our overall growth and employment policy.
Mr Leichtfried, in relation to the first question, I would say that we can always try.
Any measures that the Commission takes in this area can only be complementary to the Member States' measures.
The European economic recovery plan submitted by the Commission in November 2008 and approved by the Council is concerned with solving urgent questions and also calls for investments which should bring long-term benefits to the Union.
The aim is to protect employment and particularly long-term employment rather than specific jobs.
In connection with the employment summit, the Commission adopted on 3 June a communication entitled 'A Shared Commitment for Employment' which set out three key priorities for action: maintaining employment, creating jobs and supporting mobility, improving qualifications and improving the link between the skills offered and the needs of the labour market and improving access to the labour market.
The Commission firmly believes that cooperation with the social partners and between the social partners is highly important, especially at a time of crisis and where restructuring is involved.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that Article 138 of the treaty clearly establishes the position of the social partners and the share of the social partners in negotiating all of the important social questions.
In any case, over the course of the mandate of this Commission, there has been progress over cooperation with the social partners and I am sure that this will continue because, as I have already stated, debate with the social partners forms part of the treaty and it is a specific feature of European law and, in my view, it constitutes undeniable progress. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the EU strategy on employment marks a new package of capitalist restructurings to safeguard and increase the profits of capital by stepping up the exploitation of the workers.
