The role of sport in education (debate) The next item is the report by Pál Schmitt, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the role of sport in education.
As a one-time Olympian, a practising sports director and naturally as an MEP, it is my obligation and my responsibility to find a way for the Union to do its share in the fight against obesity in pupils, in supporting a healthy, active lifestyle, in establishing the health of European adolescents and in the process of education through sport.
The Commission has prepared numerous programmes for promoting a healthy lifestyle, and in the field of healthy nutrition, but there is not enough coordination among these programmes.
In order to improve the state of health and physical condition of children of school age, we recommend that PE in schools be made compulsory in primary and secondary schools, and that there be an opportunity for children to exercise at least three times a week as part of the curriculum.
Sport has a prominent role in promoting social integration and reinforcing social cohesion, in so far as sport is an important tool for socialisation and intercultural dialogue.
In my report, I also mention that PE and organised sports at school play a prominent role, not only physically but also mentally, in the healthy development of children and, at the same time, a level of socialisation.
We used this report in drafting our White Paper as one of the contributions that I think important in a common strategy towards sport in Europe and I am happy that there is a lot of concrete convergence between the White Paper adopted in July and this report.
This should enable us to identify the right instruments to develop sports training and education for young persons, and also ensure higher quality and quality more generally.
Let me underline at this moment that the general call for proposals for 2008, 2009 and 2010 in the framework of the Lifelong Learning Programme has included physical education and sport among its priorities, and this will open new funding opportunities for this education area.
Our experience with the Pierre de Coubertin Action Plan and your own report will help us to shape those possibilities better to support Member States' efforts to promote the role of sport in education in the coming years.
For children sport is not only a way of exercising and developing new group skills; it is also recreational and teaches teamwork.
Member States today must promote physical exercise as a school subject in order to prepare children for a healthy lifestyle.
Lastly, the Member States must actively support all forms of physical education and promote dialogue between parents, PE teachers and sports associations outside school.
Therefore, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament wholeheartedly supports the report, but we feel that it is important that it be only the first step towards a major initiative to deal with the problem of obesity.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Schmitt, for this report.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, physical activity is indisputably an important factor in the life of every person.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Madam President, this report on the role of sport in education deals in detail with the question of how Member States shall organise the subject of physical education in school.
Paragraph 10 says that the Member States shall be called on to make PE compulsory in primary and secondary schools and that at least three PE lessons per week should be guaranteed.
They will be European school champions in athletics, football and basketball, martial arts or swimming.
In this way, we might not be able to restore the Spartan ideal of a healthy spirit in a healthy body, mens sana in corporare sano, in its authentic meaning, but we shall contribute much more than a report could contribute.
The decision to hold youth Olympics in 2010 follows these lines but the Olympic spirit cannot prevail in school sports if we rely only on the four-year Olympic cycle.
In closing, I believe that the uderstanding of this Parliament about sports at the earliest age bodes well for the future... (The Chairperson iterrupts the speaker) (SL) The importance of physical exercise to the development and health of young people is well known.
Only in these terms can we speak of the positive role of sport in the lives of young people. (DE) Madam President, there was of course the European Year of Education through Sport, and I think that we can and should go back to many of the conclusions that Year brought us in the way of insights.
It is important to start with the parents here, too. (DE) Madam President, congratulations to Mr Schmitt on his own-initiative report.
Due to the political situation in their country, young sportspeople in the Turkish part of Cyprus cannot take part in international competitions.
This may be avoided through regular involvement in sport.
Supporting physical education and sport, the European Parliament gives a signal not only for a healthier life, but also for the promotion of the common European values that we all inherited from Greece and Ancient Rome.
Thus, we have every interest in investing more time and energy in school sports facilities.
Therefore, the more education and the more sport in education, the better our coexistence.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 13 November 2007.
in writing. - Mr President, as a former javelin thrower and current President of the Estonian Ski Association, I am sincerely glad that Pál Schmitt has come up with a report on the role of sport in education.
I fully support Article 50 of the report, which calls on the Commission to promote the European mobility of physical education teachers and trainers.
Another article that I consider immensely significant is Article 10, which calls on the Member States to make physical education compulsory in primary and secondary schools and guarantee at least three lessons of physical education a week, even better one lesson a day, which promotes a healthy lifestyle among European youth.
