At the same time, amendments proposed by our Group, which would have made the report more comprehensive, remained unapproved.
In the fight against undeclared work, we must enlist the business community as an ally.
Evidently, though, discussions and amendments cannot be proposed at this stage owing to the fact that the report was started under one set of rules and was finalised and voted under another. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the Zimmer report but nonetheless wish to endorse wholeheartedly the report's objective of promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, including child poverty, in the European Union.
I expressly welcome an approach which advocates adequate minimum income schemes as the basic prerequisite for a life lived in dignity.
This principle must apply to people in work and the unemployed.
If we really want to tackle poverty, if we really want to encourage social inclusion, quite often we have to look to the solutions within our own communities.
Sustained and far-reaching efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion are needed.
We should also remember that legislative social protection programmes should have a preventive role.
Effective solutions are needed to prevent such people from becoming socially marginalised. (DE) Mr President, I can support this resolution from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs because it includes my specific proposals to combat black market labour and particularly undeclared work.
I am particularly gratified by the support for my proposal to ask the European Commission to develop a pilot tool based on models such as the 2 Plus project in Luxembourg, co-financed by the European Social Fund, which is aimed at curbing undeclared work by making it less appealing through a huge simplification of administrative requirements for employers, whilst guaranteeing social security cover for workers, attractive tax rates for the employer, including through the deduction of charges concerning locally based work, and a tax exemption for all work carried out for pay lower than an amount to be determined by the Member State.
The OSCE report states that the elections in Belarus did not meet democratic standards.
The new parliament will therefore once again be composed of people subservient to Europe's last dictator.
It seems necessary to continue the policy of thawing mutual relations despite these abuses.
It must be emphasised, however, that the Union should not be the only one to make concessions.
The situation is further complicated by the fact that during the next two years elections are due not only in the United States but also in India and in Brazil.
We need to make it easier for entrepreneurs and farmers in developing countries and poorer countries to trade with us, sell their goods and services, because only trade, not the large aid industry, will help these people out of poverty. (PL) Mr President, the report before us has already gained the approval of a majority in this House.
However, I want to remind you that it was not so long ago, after the clear rejection of the European Constitution in the Netherlands and France at the time, that the provisions on the use of symbols were very carefully removed and they were no longer to be included in the Treaty of Lisbon because it was realised that the public did not want them.
The European 'nomenklatura' of privileged people is marching on but, ladies and gentlemen, the people of Europe stopped following them a long time ago. (NL) Mr President, in the debate on the Carnero González report it seemed at times as though we were talking about the European symbols themselves rather than their inclusion in our Rules of Procedure.
However, the point is that first of all it was promised that the outward symbols of a European superstate would not be included in the Treaty of Lisbon, which most Member States have ratified, and now suddenly they are going to be included and enshrined in the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
From our ivory towers in Brussels we have once again managed to alienate ourselves even further from the citizens in the Member States.
Mr President, I voted against this report by Mr Carnero González, which seeks to reintroduce more extensively in this Parliament the European flag and the European anthem.
Now this Parliament is seeking to bring them back again.
It illustrates also the monumental contempt with which we in this House treat public opinion and treat the electors who voted us into this place.
We have to develop water storage and irrigation systems, precipitation reserves have to be maintained in our cities and in the countryside so that we will have water in times of drought.
Better water management has to be achieved by the European Union, as a Community policy, and serious European Union funding should be made available in the next budget. (ES) Mr President, I have to say that I voted against this report, because it is a bad report.
I opposed the report even though it makes some good points, such as the fact that water must be for all or that we must share resources and that there must be solidarity among regions.
It is important to recognise that this communication, launched by the Commission following the failure of the draft Constitutional Treaty to encourage discussion of the relations between the Union's democratic institutions and its citizens, does not appear to have met its objectives.
Plan D is a failure: how can there be democracy without dialogue and dialogue without debate?
in writing. - (SV) We have no objections to informing and educating citizens in the Member States objectively and factually about EU cooperation.
The declaration also pays tribute to EU parties, and to the connected political foundations, which Junilistan considers must be built from below by the Member States' national parties and not from above by the EU bureaucracy.
In actual fact this involves an attempt to hide or conceal the real content of EU policies and decision-making where these conflict with the interests of workers and other social strata in the various EU countries.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues are supportive of factual information being available to the public on EU policies and institutions and improving transparency.
However, speaking in the current economic and financial circumstances, we believe that there are other priorities which are more pressing and important for the EU to deal with.
Using the same legal bases as the previous protocol (Protocol with the EU 10), the present protocol gives Switzerland the right to maintain quantitative limits for workers and self-employed persons from Romania and Bulgaria, in order to gradually ease access for the two nationalities to the Swiss labour market, with larger groups admitted each year.
in writing. - (PT) I support this initiative, which aims to once again extend the Agreement (of June 2002) on the free movement of persons between Switzerland and the EU in order to include Romania and Bulgaria.
This extension will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the promotion of new work and investment opportunities and also on the economic growth of all the countries concerned, particularly through the increase in the volume of trade between them.
Special transitional periods are planned, up to a limit of seven years, during which Switzerland will have the right to maintain quantitative limits for workers and self-employed persons from Romania and Bulgaria, in order to gradually ease access for the two nationalities to the Swiss labour market and increase the number of these new workers admitted each year, bearing in mind market needs and the availability of work in Switzerland.
in writing. - (RO) A referendum on the extension of the free circulation agreement with the European Union and the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria will be organised in Switzerland on 8 February 2009.
Switzerland had also organised such a referendum in September 2005 after the 2004 enlargement.
Fortunately, the result of that referendum was a positive one.
The aim of this proposal is to implement the principles already agreed in previous regulatory instruments, by creating an electronic interconnection between national records - the lack of which has until now prevented the European records system from functioning effectively.
However, there is no change in the basic principles: the point of reference remains the Member State of which the convicted person has nationality; the information is only kept in the central national records and is not directly accessible to the records of the other Member States; the Member States manage and update their own databases.
in writing. - (PT) Since 2005 the European Commission has brought forward a range of legislative initiatives aimed at regulating and facilitating the exchange of criminal records in order to do away with a slow and basically inefficient system that operated on the basis of mechanisms laid down in the 1959 Convention of the Council of Europe.
The first improvement was made with the 2005 Council Decision on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record, particularly with regard to shortening transmission times.
In 2007 the Council reached political agreement on a framework decision which aims to ensure that each Member State can respond as fully and correctly as possible to requests for criminal records made to them on their nationals.
It aims to create a computerised system for the exchange of information on convictions between the Member States, in other words the European Criminal Records Information System (ECRIS).
There will still be 27 different legal systems, all with their own judicial and social sensitivities, but the aim has been to find a common focal point to allow the practical application of the system.
In this context, to ensure that there is adequate data protection, we can once again clearly see the urgent need to adopt the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, for which I have repeatedly called.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report on ECRIS because behind this obscure acronym lies the key element in the networking of national criminal records.
We also had the decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records between Member States.
in writing. - (NL) The Romagnoli report deserves our support, because it represents real progress in judicial cooperation between the Member States.
The Fourniret case in Belgium is the saddest example of that.
The freedom of expression that is seriously restricted in some Member States by 'anti-racism' laws that impose prison sentences might be a problem in this respect.
in writing. - (PT) This is a consultation procedure intended to result in agreement on the proposal to establish the European Criminal Records Information System (ECRIS), which will involve the computerised exchange of information between Member States.
As indicated, the 'objective presupposes the systematic exchange between the competent authorities of the Member States of information extracted from national criminal records in a way that would guarantee their common understanding and efficiency of such exchange'.
We believe that, when necessary, the transmission of information extracted from the criminal records of citizens of one Member State to another Member State must be effected on the basis of (bilateral) cooperation between the parties concerned.
in writing. - (FR) The report by our colleague signals a real step forward for the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records between Member States.
There is no doubt that individuals such as Fourniret, a disgusting paedophile who managed to terrorise people in France and then in Belgium because his criminal record had not been forwarded from one country to another, may still exist.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council decision on the establishment of the European Criminal Records Information System (ECRIS), in application of Article 11 of Framework Decision 2008/XX/JHA (COM (2008) 0332 - C6 - 0216/2008 -.
Mr Romagnoli, the rapporteur, has rightly emphasised that the aforementioned proposal aims to implement principles already agreed and to provide implementing measures, rather than outline them again.
in writing. - (DE) At a time when cross-border crime is on the increase, cooperation between the Member States becomes ever more important.
It is also essential to adhere to data protection requirements and uphold the rights of the accused and the victims alike.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this report as I believe it plays an important role in implementing the European information system on judicial records, by creating technical and practical means that provide for an exchange of information between the Member States.
However, I believe that the text voted for can be improved in the future (after the provisional use of the S-TESA administrative communication network) by using communication system of the European Judicial Network for the following reasons: By adopting the Kaufmann report, the European Parliament has supported the creation of a modern and safe telecommunications network for the European Judicial Network; Judicial record information is one of the topics covered by the European Judicial Network which promotes justice in the Member States; Important savings will be made by using one single communication network; The use of a unique system for communications with a legal character will provide for rapid, safe, integrated and easy access by interested parties to the information required.
in writing. - The British Conservatives voted against this proposal on the basis that it extends the national authorities' ability to extract information on criminal records without recourse to proper scrutiny.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote in favour of the report on the fight against undeclared work.
The report also objects to the recent tendency on the part of the Court of Justice in interpreting the directive on the posting of workers.
However, we must also continue to reduce the burden of taxation on the workforce, in accordance with each country's situation, by improving the quality of public finances.
It is essential to reduce the administrative complexities of the taxation and social welfare systems, which can encourage undeclared work, particularly among the self-employed and small businesses.
in writing. - British Conservatives support measures to step up the fight against undeclared work, particularly some measures mentioned in the report - those encouraging Member States to reduce the burden of taxation on the workforce and promoting the benefits of legal employment for example.
in writing. - (SV) A well functioning labour market requires both good legislation and effective coordination between the social partners and the relevant authorities.
The Panzeri report abounds in good intentions and, in some cases, generous advice on how the individual Member States can organise their labour markets in general and deal with the problem of undeclared work in particular.
Among other things, the rapporteur encourages the Member States to continue with tax and social security system reforms and to take concerted action with a view to combating undeclared work.
Junilistan considers that labour market policy is a national matter, and we are therefore greatly concerned at how the EU is persistently trying to increase its influence in these questions at the expense of the self-determination of the individual Member States.
in writing. - (PL) Undeclared work is a complex multi-faceted phenomenon.
As to the workers in the underground economy themselves, they are often deprived of the rights to which employees are entitled.
I believe that in relation to combating undeclared work involving posted workers, strengthening administrative cooperation and exchanging information between Member States is all that is required.
in writing. - (SV) We consider that effective measures must be taken to stop undeclared work.
However, we cannot accept that, for example, a common immigration policy should be part of the solution to the problem of undeclared work.
We therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - Undeclared work is a phenomenon which affects all Member States of the EU.
The EU and its Member States must take action to reduce levels of undeclared work and accordingly I voted in favour of the Panzeri report.
in writing. - (FR) It is essential to combat undeclared work, particularly when this cancer of the economy is increasing, thereby curbing our growth and distorting competition on the internal market through social dumping.
The first victims of this underground economy are the legal workers, the citizens of the Member States, whose legitimate economic and social rights are threatened.
France and Europe do not have to open up more 'channels for legal immigration' when they cannot even stop illegal immigration.
in writing. - (NL) I abstained from voting on the Panzeri report on 'stepping up the fight against undeclared work'.
in writing. - The report contains a number of problems, including the promotion of atypical contracts and of 'flexicurity', which risk undermining fixed employment contracts.
The EU enlargements in 2004 and 2007 are having far-reaching effects.
The differences in welfare within the EU have increased considerably because in many of the new Member States what used to be successful industries have now collapsed.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the report by Mr Panzeri on stepping up the fight against undeclared work.
I agree on the need to make serious, concerted efforts to combat this phenomenon, through preventive measures, incentives and a heightened sense of responsibility, as well as through repressive measures, by means of effective surveillance and appropriate penalties.
We are voting against the report because it essentially aims to perpetuate the brutal exploitation of workers.
Quite the opposite: it is based on the need to maintain the profitability of capital and strengthen the competitiveness of EU monopolies in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
Such measures not only fail to address the problem of undeclared work, but also give capital complete impunity.
The workers' struggle through the labour movement aims to overturn the anti-popular policy of the EU and the bourgeois governments of the Member States.
in writing. - (PL) Undeclared work has become a widespread phenomenon in the European Union.
In Denmark, for example, up to 18% of the population undertake work of this nature or have had contact with it.
In what could be described as the best case scenario, the employee is required to pay a fine, which is in any case lower than the fine paid by the employer.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have voted in favour of this report on the important fight to combat social exclusion.
However, we wish to make clear our position on the points relating to minimum wages.
It is important that such exchanges of experience take place between the Member States.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my German colleague Gabriele Zimmer on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, including child poverty, in the European Union.
Like the vast majority of my fellow Members, I welcome the Commission's approach to active social inclusion, which must enable people to live in dignity and participate in society and in the labour market.
I support the call to the Member States to define minimum income schemes to promote social inclusion and support schemes aimed at lifting people out of poverty and enabling them to lead a dignified life.
Combating poverty and social exclusion is the main issue on the agenda of the European Union and the Member States.
In March 2000, when the Lisbon Strategy began to be implemented, the Council instructed the Member States and the European Commission to take measures to radically reduce poverty, leading to its eradication by 2010.
The Member States have demonstrated their determination through their numerous actions at both EU and national level.
However, combating poverty and trying to reintegrate people who have been rejected by the labour market remains a hefty task for the enlarged European Union.
Most of the Member States are pursuing a welfare policy as well as an activation policy, seeking to reintegrate people who have been driven out of the labour market.
in writing. - British Conservatives support the promotion of social inclusion and the fight against poverty.
Many countries in the EU have a minimum wage but British Conservatives believe that this is a matter for Member States to decide.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote against the report on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty in the EU because many of the proposals concern areas which should be dealt with at national level.
Measures such as minimum wages also run counter to the aim of the report, by creating multiple obstacles in the fight against social exclusion.
in writing. - (FR) This report on poverty in Europe is evidence of the overwhelming failure of the policies implemented by the European Union and further illustration of the lack of realism in this House.
Only last week the Scottish Education Secretary announced a scheme to provide free school meals to children in their first three years at school, a welcome move in the current economic circumstances.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the Zimmer report on combating poverty.
Politicians must take firm action to reduce poverty and combat social exclusion.
It is therefore very regrettable that it is no longer possible to table amendments to own-initiative reports in plenary.
We would also have preferred a more concise report.
Nonetheless, as the objectives and measures are the right ones - namely to reduce poverty on an EU-wide basis - the majority of my Group is able to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - (PT) Combating poverty is a priority for any democratic society which has its roots in human dignity and the participation of all citizens in the development of society.
The measures adopted to date have not yet achieved the desired results of a drastic reduction in social exclusion and poverty.
Promoting economic growth as a primary objective for a prosperous, fair and environmentally sustainable future for Europe requires income support to prevent social exclusion, a link to inclusive labour markets, better access to quality services and active participation of all citizens.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the report by Mrs Zimmer on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, including child poverty, in the European Union.
The aims of eradicating poverty, developing labour markets which promote social inclusion, and guaranteeing all citizens access to high-quality services and a sufficient income to ensure a decent lifestyle - as mentioned by Mrs Zimmer in her report - should obviously be endorsed and deserve our full attention.
in writing. - (SV) Gabriele Zimmer's report is a typical example of what happens when the chosen subject is not sufficiently well defined.
Regardless of what you think about the substance - and in the latter two cases my view is firmly negative - you can see that these are not areas where the EU has, or should have, competences.
in writing. - Combating poverty in the EU is essential to realising a more equal society.
in writing. - (PL) In 2006, 19% of children were at risk of poverty compared with 16% of the total population.
At present, 19 million of the 78 million people living in poverty in our continent are children.
That is why I believe that the Union should not spare its efforts in this regard.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan is in favour increasing trade and deepening economic relations with Ukraine.
We have previously voted in favour of establishing a cooperation agreement with Ukraine (Brok report.
The Zaleski report has its basis in a Commission proposal whose aim is only to renew some of the cooperation agreement with Ukraine following the country's accession to the WTO.
in writing. - (PT) The explanatory statement accompanying this report excelled in demonstrating what is actually at stake and therefore justified our vote against the report.
The rapporteur confirms that Ukraine's accession to the WTO would pave 'the way to the creation of a comprehensive EU/Ukraine Free Trade Area, including further commitments in trade in services' and that, to achieve that objective, 'Ukraine needs to undertake domestic reforms and hold ambitious talks with the EU'.
Based on this premise, the rapporteur gives some examples: 'speed up further integration of Ukraine's transport infrastructure, in particular ports and waterways, into the European transport network'; 'full inclusion of Ukraine in the "Single European Sky”, which may imply some liberalisation of aviation-related activities including airports'; 'insists on the fact that a proper functioning energy market and an efficient oil and gas transit policy are the necessary preconditions for the full integration of Ukraine into the EU energy system'; 'The conclusion of the FTA make it possible to not only eliminate restrictions on the movement of capital, but also restrictions on financial services'.
I believe this report to be fully in line with the European neighbourhood policy, which has included Ukraine since 2004, and that the service sector is the one in which this policy can be most fruitful in terms of economic benefits for both parties.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the reform of the IASB (International Accounting Standards Board) as part of the debate held following the oral question submitted within the framework of the consultation of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation (IASCF).
It is important to remember that through the committee procedure, the European Union, within the framework of Community law, converts the international accounting standards drawn up by the IASB.
In spite of this Community adoption procedure, it is essential to ensure that the IASB functions correctly and the creation of a Monitoring Group is a positive step.
This Monitoring Group should reflect the balance of the world's most significant currency areas, cultural diversity, and the interests of both developed and emerging economies and of international institutions that have accountability requirements before public authorities.
The Monitoring Group must play an active role in promoting the transparency of financial reporting and the development and effective functioning of capital markets, as well as avoiding pro-cyclicality, ensuring financial market stability and preventing systemic risk.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which has now been appropriately debated in committee and on the floor.
I hope now that the transparency of decisions can be seen as just as essential as the decisions themselves.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the European Parliament's resolution of 9 October 2008 tabled by six political groups, including the PPE-DE, on the situation in Belarus after the parliamentary elections of 28 September 2008.
The statements by President Alexander Lukashenko had given us some hope: he had publicly called for open and democratic elections on 10 July 2008 and had reiterated this call on television on 29 August 2008, promising that the elections would be unprecedented in terms of fairness.
For fear of democracy, the last dictator in Europe wasted an opportunity to join the procession of the magnificent and great historical developments that we have witnessed since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the collapse of communism.
It is up to each sovereign state to decide who is permitted to reside in its territory.
in writing. - (PT) For the nth time, do not expect us to whitewash your exercises in hypocrisy and barefaced interference.
Among other aspects worthy of note, a majority in this Parliament has tried, in this resolution, through a tortuous exercise, to question what the OSCE Election Observation Mission has not questioned (for example, the democratic legitimacy of the elected parliament) and to urge use of the EU's financial resources for operations of interference.
However, the fundamental issue concerns the kind of morals held by a Parliament that judges elections held in different countries on the basis of the geostrategic, political and economic interests of the EU's major powers?
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the resolution on Belarus.
It represents an effort to improve the situation in Belarus.
in writing. - (PT) Belarus represents a clear challenge to the goal of the European Union to act as a promoter of democracy in the world, particularly in its neighbouring countries.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the European Parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in Belarus following the parliamentary elections of 28 September 2008.
For this reason the Belarusian Government must, in future, take steps to guarantee truly democratic elections in keeping with the provisions of international law.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues have today voted strongly in favour of the joint motion on the situation in Belarus.
With regard to paragraph 19 of the resolution, we wish to make clear that the issue of the death penalty is traditionally a matter of conscience for British Conservative MEPs.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of and signed the PPE resolution drawn up by my Greek friend and former minister Georgios Papastamkos on the suspension of the Doha Round.
These negotiations reached a stalemate in July 2008 and I regret Pascal Lamy's stubborn insistence on securing, at any cost, an overly ambitious agreement, forgetting that Doha is first and foremost a development round aimed at helping the least advanced and developing countries.
The reality is that, with the imminent US elections looming in November and the consequent arrival of a new Administration in Washington, there will be no US Trade Negotiator in a position to negotiate before next summer.
Doha is needed and is necessary, but we will not return to it until 2010 at the earliest.
In the meantime the EU must continue to negotiate its region-to-region FTAs with the Republic of Korea, the countries of ASEAN and India.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan accepts that the EU has a central role to play in trade policy.
Good relations and well-developed global trade are fundamental requirements in the effort towards economic prosperity for all the world's countries, not least the very poorest.
We also support the proposal to reform the WTO in order to make it more effective and transparent and improve its democratic legitimacy once the Doha Round is over.
The proposed treaty's entry into force should be regarded as extremely uncertain, in particular in the light of the Irish people's rejection of the treaty earlier this year.
Faced with the breakdown of the July 2008 WTO negotiations - in which only seven of its members took part - due to the differences of opinion between the EU and the United States on the one hand and the main developing countries on the other, once again a majority in this Parliament have been forced by circumstance to moderate their language in order to try and salvage the agenda and objectives of liberalisation of world trade through the current negotiating round.
However, despite their continued efforts, the agenda of economic control promoted by the EU's major financial and economic groups has now come up against increasing contradictions and the interests of the developing countries.
in writing. - As the negotiations collapsed it was becoming clearer that agriculture in the EU was being undermined in the name of 'development', but that the 'development' in question was in the interests of service providers in developed countries and of the global food corporations rather than the people of developing countries.
In the current climate where the consequences of the lack of regulation of international finance are ever more apparent, food security needs to become a priority in a way which is beneficial to developing and developed countries.
In the current climate where the consequences of the lack of control of international finance are all too apparent this is particularly urgent.
The WTO Doha round needs a complete reorientation in order to create a win-win situation for the EU and for developing countries.
In the current context of economic, financial and food crises, it is essential to support a multilateral system that would ensure credible and equitable trade.
in writing. - (PT) The successive impasses reached in the Doha Round are bad news for the world.
The question therefore is whether the national authorities want to regulate this globalisation, whether they want to encourage and stimulate the mechanisms of success of this global wealth-creation process.
The impasse in the Doha Round will not benefit either the developed countries or the developing countries.
For these reasons, this statement of the need to determinedly continue with the processes that have led to an increase in international trade merits our agreement.
The fact that the European Parliament is still enthusiastic about the virtues and virtualities of trade is a good sign.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the suspension of the WTO Doha Round.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote against Carlos Carnero González's report on the use by Parliament of the symbols of the Union.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my Spanish colleague Carlos Carnero González on insertion in Parliament's Rules of Procedure of a new Rule 202a on the use by Parliament of the symbols of the Union.
These symbols have been used for more than 30 years by all of the European institutions and were officially adopted by the European Council in 1985.
I am pleased with the choice of 9 May as Europe Day: it commemorates 9 May 1950, when the French Foreign Minister, Robert Schuman, in his speech in the Salon de l'Horloge at the Quai d'Orsay, outlined publicly Jean Monnet's idea to bring together coal and steel production under the umbrella of a supranational High Authority, thereby pooling the resources necessary for munitions.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against this report.
The European Union is not a state, so it must not adorn itself with the symbols of a state or nation such as a national anthem, a flag and so on.
Flags and anthems are for nations, not for economic cooperation associations between states.
in writing. - (FR) This report on the use of the European Union's symbols by this Parliament is not a report; it is an act of 'constitutional faith', the expression of a quasi-religious credo!
The European Union's symbols - flag, anthem and motto - no longer exist as such from a legal point of view since two European nations broadly rejected the European Constitution in 2005.
There are many examples of this, including the state of Belgium, which was created almost 180 years ago by merging Flanders and Wallonia.
The original EU constitution, which was defeated in referendums in France and the Netherlands, contained references to, among other things, the EU's national anthem and flag.
So now the European Parliament is trying to take revenge and sneak in the use of EU symbols by the back door.
in writing. - I could not vote in favour of the Carnero report but did not wish to give support to a Eurosceptic point of view either.
I am wholeheartedly in favour of the European Union.
The symbols of the EU were enshrined within the EU Constitution - and that document was rejected in France and the Netherlands.
European citizens, far from being 'united in diversity', as the EU motto goes, are instead frightened in adversity and will look on this vote with incredulity.
in writing. - (FR) Europe wants to adorn itself with the regalia of a state.
In 2005 the French and Dutch people rejected by referendum the draft European Constitution that incorporated these symbols.
in writing. - (FR) One of the rare differences between the European Constitution and the Lisbon Treaty signed by the 25 heads of state or government was precisely these EU symbols - the flag, anthem, motto and Europe Day - which were unanimously rejected on 13 December 2007.
It was important to keep up appearances and not give European citizens the impression that the structures of a federal state were being put in place.
The scandalous manner in which the institutions are trying to make Ireland hold another referendum is a caricatural illustration of their idea of democracy.
in writing. - (DE) The power of symbols should not be underestimated.
They can manifest the intangible and create identity.
If the EU persists in this attempt to revive the original Treaty by introducing just one real amendment, namely jettisoning the EU symbols, the EU will forfeit what remains of its credibility.
in writing. - (IT) I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on having introduced the symbols of the Union into the Rules of Procedure, now that they have surprisingly been excluded from the new Treaty.
in writing. - (SK) Since their formation, the European Communities and subsequently the European Union have sought to have symbols that the public can easily identify.
The Lisbon Treaty, which was born from a compromise and replaced the text of the Constitutional Treaty, did not adopt the symbols because of the pressure from some Member States.
This experience, which is shared by our countries, regions, churches, parties, civil organisations, etc., is also valid at EU level.
It would be hard to find such a well-known piece of music and poetry that would better symbolise the idea of European integration than the anthem of the European Union from Ludwig van Beethoven's Ninth Symphony.
As is well known, symbols are worth more than any slogan or words.
in writing. - (CS) With regard to the report on the use of the symbols of the Union, I can only say that this is a further illustration of the way in which democratic procedures are sidestepped in the European Union.
The Constitution, or at least its pivotal context, is supposed to be de facto 'resuscitated' by the Lisbon Treaty, and now the European Parliament is trying to resuscitate the symbols of the Union.
in writing. - (PL) I voted against legal recognition of European Union symbols by the European Parliament for the following reasons.
In the latter, all the Member States decided to omit the issue of European symbols from the Reform Treaty that replaced the draft Constitutional Treaty.
The peoples of Europe are being provoked by this proposed invitation to the European Parliament to play a major part in the promotion and intensive use of EU symbols.
They anticipate its dissolution and aim to establish their own power, ushering in new institutions and symbols corresponding to their own needs and values.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats agree that consumers have an important function to perform if sustainable use of water resources in the EU is to be achieved.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent own-initiative report by my Austrian colleague Richard Seeber in response to the communication by the European Commission entitled 'Addressing the challenge of water scarcity and droughts in the European Union'.
I share the regrets concerning the absence of any real international dimension to the European Commission's approach and I support the rapporteur's proposals that the specificity of the water scarcity and droughts issue requires coordinated action at EU and Member State level as well as at regional and local government level.
At least 11% of the population and 17% of the territory of the European Union have been affected by water scarcity, and recent developments have shown that water is likely to become significantly more scarce in Europe.
in writing. - Water scarcity is an urgent issue affecting European and global citizens.
This report makes us aware that the EU wastes 20% of water due to inefficiency; there is a lack of awareness among the public for promoting water saving and 17% of the EU region suffers from severe water shortage.
Water saving technologies and irrigation management in the industrial and agricultural sectors could reduce excesses by as much as 43% while water efficiency measures could decrease water wastage by up to a third.
The aim is also to increase the profitability of monopoly business groups.
The resolution makes no distinction between drought and water scarcity, which are two different phenomena calling for different responses.
The report underestimates the positive role of forests as an active factor in mitigating the natural phenomenon of drought and combating water scarcity.
The report downplays the risk of floods and the need to take flood protection measures.
They oppose the commercialisation of what is still a social good, even though it is prey to the profit-making of monopolies.
in writing. - (PT) We disagree with the logic underlying the idea that water management must abide by market principles and, as such, that price (tariffs) must be the central instrument for controlling consumption.
The report mentions the need for a return on investments, as if this were the whole or part of the solution to the problem of scarcity.
However, these are not apparent in the scheme established by the Framework Water Directive, which calls for the application of economic and financial principles to water management, without safeguarding its main conditions: its enshrinement as a right and its democratic management.
However, at no time is the CAP questioned as a primary source of desertification in countries such as Portugal.
in writing. - (IT) The problems of water scarcity and droughts, which are directly related, affect many parts of southern Europe in particular, with disastrous consequences for the environment and for local inhabitants.
The second concerns prevention: I fully agree with the rapporteur when he states that training and education by means of information campaigns, beginning in schools, are crucially important so as to bring about a change in behaviour and create a culture of saving water and consuming it efficiently.
in writing. - (SK) I abstained from voting on the report by Mr Richard Seeber.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the Seeber report, which addresses the serious problem of water scarcity and droughts in the European Union.
That is why joint action at European level will ensure that we manage this precious resource in the best possible way.
in writing. - (PL) The problem of water scarcity and drought is now critical, as are the related consequences of global warming.
Over one third of Europeans are already living in areas affected by water scarcity.
In addition, a specific culture of responsible water saving should be developed through an active awareness-raising policy.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution tabled by five political groups, including the PPE-DE, on Arctic governance.
Moreover, the EU counts amongst its Member States three Arctic nations, and amongst its closely related neighbours participating in the internal market through the Agreement creating the European Economic Area (EEA) a further two Arctic nations, meaning that the EU and its associated states comprise more than half the numeric membership of the Arctic Council.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Amendment 6 from the Party of European Socialists that called for a nuclear-free and demilitarised Arctic.
in writing. - We share the concern of the resolution about the effects of climate change on the sustainability of the communities that inhabit the Arctic area as well as the effects on the natural habitat, and we recognise the significance of the Arctic for the global climate and therefore the Arctic as a common concern.
We cannot, however, support this resolution as its point of departure is first and foremost the interests of the EU.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on Arctic governance in our globalised world.
in writing. - We share the concern of the resolution about the effects of climate change on the sustainability of the communities that inhabit the Arctic area as well as the effects on the natural habitat; and we recognise the significance of the Arctic for the global climate and therefore the Arctic as a common concern.
We cannot, however, support this resolution as its point of departure is first and foremost the interests of the EU.
We believe that the starting point for all talks and initiatives concerning the Arctic area must be the respect of the sovereign territory of the Arctic nations and equally the inclusion of all the peoples of the Arctic area as equal partners.
The European Commission must display the utmost firmness in dealing with infringements of Community law by Member States as regards social provisions in the road transport sector, provide for coercive measures in the event of failure to comply with provisions and take preventive measures, if necessary via judicial process, to ensure strict compliance with Community law.
in writing. - I voted for this report due to the pressing need for the Member States to transpose social legislation and to ensure it is duly enforced.
It is thus very important that Member States speed up the transposition of Directive 2002/15/EC, and also that the European Parliament assert the support for the inclusion of all road transport drivers within the working time legislation applicable in this field, regardless of their employment status.
I can see no reason why self-employed drivers should be exempt from measures which contribute to the safety of our roads.
However, the road transport sector is a cross-border question and working conditions for self-employed drivers are part of that question.
In addition, we consider that questions relating to working time in general are also a matter for the Member States.
in writing. - The EU's social legislation in the area of road transport is of great importance.
Accordingly I voted in favour of the Cercas report.
Road transport is one of the economic areas that plays a very important role in the European internal market.
This area is especially important with regard to employment, as more than 3 million people work in the EU transport industry.
This situation not only encourages unfair competition, but also endangers the health and safety of drivers and other road users.
These measures would enable us to achieve much better levels of road safety and to ensure appropriate health and safety conditions for drivers as well as fair competition in the road transport sector.
in writing. - (NL) This proposal is an attempt to take earlier decisions seriously through better controls, better information, secured parking places on motorways and the abolition from 23 March 2009 of exemptions for self-employed workers.
The competition in that sector is fierce.
in writing. - (SV) The legislation addressed by Alejandro Cercas is not uncontroversial.
At the same time, we must realise that the lorry strike which broke out on the Oresund Bridge in November 2007 did not happen by chance.
This kind of legislation requires considerable flexibility in order to be able to work in, say, both Romania and Denmark.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my Dutch colleague Ieke van den Burg and my Romanian colleague Daniel Dăianu containing recommendations to the Commission on the follow-up to the future structure of financial supervision.
I support the formal request to the Commission to put forward legislative proposals to improve the EU financial services regulatory framework, not only because of the financial crisis but because we will be unable to build a European internal market if we do not have a European regulatory policy.
I am strongly in favour of a regulation to strengthen and clarify the status and accountability of the Lamfalussy Level 3 Committees (CESR for securities, CEIOPS for insurance and pensions, and CEBS for banks), giving them legal status commensurate with their duties.
in writing. - (PT) The Members from the PSD (Portuguese Social Democratic Party) support this report, which is particularly opportune in the light of the international financial crisis.
International cooperation is essential to ensure and restore the credibility of the markets.
Greater cohesion among the EU Member States is essential.
It is important to ensure that there is greater transparency and better financial information, using the technologies available.
Innovation and financial markets must promote better consumer protection.
in writing. - (FR) This Parliament believes in the intrinsic goodness of the financial markets, in their capacity for resilience and self-regulation, which is why there are only minimal specific rules at European, and perhaps global, level.
The nation is the protector and it is the countries' decisions that count in the current context.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, given the urgency of the financial situation hitting the EU and other global financial markets.
This report is important because we need effective regulatory and supervisory arrangements to improve monitoring of the workings of the financial services market.
In particular, I welcome the oral amendment calling for a level playing field in terms of protection for EU citizens in relation to deposit protection.
It is unfair that citizens in one Member State can avail of a higher level of protection in terms of sums on deposit - the range across Member States varies from EUR 20 000 to unlimited guarantees in Ireland.
I also welcome the call for a more coordinated response in the EU to the financial crisis and that divergences between the national regimes of Member States should be reduced to the greatest possible extent.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution with recommendations to the Commission on the Lamfalussy follow-up concerning the future structure of supervision.
in writing. - (PT) The European Union is facing a crisis of confidence caused by a lack of direction, transparency, leadership and power among the European institutions.
There is a lack of direction because no one yet has any clear idea how to end this crisis.
There is a lack of transparency because the financial markets have proved to be more opaque than was thought.
This exceptional and global situation requires exceptional and global responses and, in particular, urgent responses.
in writing. - The time for a centrally located single authority at European level may not have come yet.
in writing. - It was appalling to see UKIP and certain British Conservatives trying to prevent an oral amendment which would protect savers in the current economic climate.
There can be no doubt that in view of the current financial crisis caused by unduly risky investments and other activities of banks in the United States, there is an urgent need to reform the regulation and supervision of the financial markets.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my esteemed Slovenian colleague and friend Alojz Peterle in response to the European Commission's White Paper entitled 'Together for Health: A Strategic Approach for the EU 2008-2013'.
The fight against the counterfeiting of medicines must be a priority.
I agree with the rapporteur that one of the priority goals in the health sector should be a reduction in health inequalities and inequities.
I am in favour of a modern approach to health promotion and protection, particularly for the most vulnerable sections of the population, such as young children, and the introduction of integrated social and health policies.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Peterle report on the health strategy for 2008-2013 because I believe that ensuring a high level of lifelong human health protection must be an EU priority.
I would also highlight the need to improve the quality of healthcare and assistance provided to citizens, bearing in mind the increased prevalence of chronic diseases and the increasing ageing of the European population.
The health of EU citizens must be perceived as one of the key social and political factors that will determine the Union's future.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Peterle report on the EU's health strategy.
The report acknowledges that the provision of health care is a Member State matter and I strongly believe that this should remain the case.
However the EU does have an important role to play in the exchange of information and in the promotion of health lifestyles.
Access to health care is a right of all EU citizens and providing equal access for all to high-quality medical services is a core task of the Member States' public authorities.
I support this document and agree that it covers the most acute health-care problems.
In view of the shortage of carers and the appreciation of the importance of the services they provide, it is necessary to improve their working conditions as well as ensure that carers receive high-quality training.
The Member States should respond to the European Parliament's call to guarantee patients access to lifesaving drugs, even if they are expensive, in order to guarantee the universal right to health.
Most importantly, with the implementation of the EU's health strategy, people throughout the EU would have access to quality health care.
in writing. - (SK) At present, major differences in health still exist between individual EU Member States.
I agree that since the area of disease prevention still attracts only 3% of health budgets, more funds should be made available from these budgets.
I firmly believe that the countries must take steps to improve healthcare, and in that context the Commission's White Paper and the Council Conclusions of December 2007 provide an appropriate foundation.
We need a radical rethink on an EU scale.
We also need models to encourage healthy lifestyles.
in writing. - (SK) Health is one of the things people value most in their lives.
Consequently, I welcome the Commission's health strategy entitled 'Together for Health: A Strategic Approach for the EU 2008-2013'.
The battle to reduce the effects of climate change on the population's health must also be supported by active policies aimed at adapting to climate change.
The studies carried out have demonstrated that two out of five deaths worldwide are directly or indirectly linked to environmental factors.
in writing. - (PT) The White Paper on health in the European Union raises many important questions about the future of Europe and, in particular, about the paradigmatic changes that will affect how our societies operate in the future.
Prevention policies are therefore becoming increasingly important and we must establish a clear framework for the current circumstances, bearing in mind the situation in the 27 Member States and taking account of existing inequalities between social groups and between Member States, so that we can adopt cross-sectoral health policies which will create the conditions for the effective development of health policy.
For this reason there must be a common approach to giving European citizens adequate protection from those risks.
in writing. - The coordination of best practice in health policy is important in the EU in order to provide EU citizens with the best possible treatments and health protection.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report entitled 'Together for Health : a Strategic Approach for the EU 2008-2013'.
The main provisions of the White Paper involve promoting a healthy lifestyle and eliminating the barriers to access to healthcare services in the EU Member States.
Protecting the citizens against health risks, ensuring balanced healthcare systems and introducing new technologies in this area are also highlighted.
In addition, we must combat the inequalities in access to healthcare services by individual social groups and reduce the differences between the Member States in terms of access to healthcare.
The EU is treating health as a means of increasing workers' productivity and reducing social costs.
At the same time, the EU is using health as a pretext to promote its expansionist, imperialist plans by proposing the involvement of health services in the CFSP, international trade and relations with third countries.
The Community framework for health services and management of innovation in health systems, and the creation of European centres of excellence and other proposed measures, are the just the first step towards concentrating health services in the hands of a few multinationals.
in writing. - (PL) I am in favour of adoption of the report on the European Union's healthcare strategy for the years 2008-2013.
The sums allocated to disease prevention in healthcare budgets are too low.
The European Union should take steps to ensure equal conditions for treatment across all Member States.
