It is a special day because for the first time in the history of the European Union the representative, the Prime Minister of this country, namely Slovenia, has the Presidency of the European Union.
Slovenia is a country that joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 along with nine other countries.
And it is the first time that one of the former communist countries now living according to the basic principles of freedom, democracy and parliamentarianism, namely Slovenia, has the Presidency of the European Union.
I therefore warmly welcome the President-in-Office of the Council, the Prime Minister of Slovenia, Janez Janša.
Welcome to the European Parliament! (Applause) Today is also special for another reason, however, and I therefore extend a particularly warm welcome to the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, because it is exactly 50 years ago that the first President of the European Commission, Walter Hallstein, convened his first Commission.
President of the Council. - (SL) It is my honour and pleasure to be with you here today, and indeed also a matter of pride.
I feel pride as a Slovene whose country is the first of the new EU Member States to be entrusted with the presidency of the European Council and also as a European whose Union is entering 2008 with a signed Lisbon Treaty and an enlarged Eurozone and Schengen area.
Today is a historic day in many respects.
This would not have been possible without the profound changes that have occurred on the European continent in the past quarter of a century.
All this was unimaginable to millions of Europeans only 20 years ago.
We were tried in the middle of Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia, at that time still a republic of Yugoslavia, and tried in what was for us a foreign language.
As the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the European Union, I can address you in my mother tongue.
If anyone had told me this was possible 20 years ago in my cell of the military prison I would obviously not have believed a word of it.
But it did happen and after only 20 years in the life of the same generation.
In 1988, 20 years ago, we had an income of around EUR 4 000 per capita in purchasing power, whilst in 2007 the figure was EUR 22 000.
We have reached 91% of the European Union average, last year our economic growth exceeded 6%, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in history and one of the lowest in the European Union.
The level of poverty is the second lowest in the Eurozone, we are the third least indebted member of the Eurozone, and we rank among the first six Member States on the European Union reform barometer.
Following the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the democratic changes similar great progress has also been made by the other former Communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe which are now members of the European Union.
Following the removal of the Schengen border between Italy, Austria, Hungary and Slovenia in December last year tens of thousands of people in Slovenia and on the other side of the former border spontaneously celebrated this symbolic act.
Those of you who were with us at that time - the President of the European Commission was there and there was great rejoicing in other places too despite the cold weather - were able to see that people's reactions were very emotional.
The lady said she hardly dared to believe that all this was happening and that the border would practically no longer exist and that something was emerging which she had not even dared dream of 20 or even 15 years ago.
I thank you on behalf of those of us who are here because you stood with us.
You were in no way forced to take such an unselfish decision - freedom and solidarity triumphed because you cared.
Our principle objective is for Europe to make progress in as many areas as possible in the next six months.
We defined these key areas some time ago when we drew up the 18-month presidency programme together with Germany and Portugal.
This Parliament has been informed of the programme and the significant progress which our partners in the trio achieved last year in implementing the joint programme.
Therefore, our starting point remains the abovementioned programme since we wish to maintain the continuity of European Union policies.
At the same time we will also devote ourselves to any new challenges.
The main achievement in implementing the programme thus far was the agreement on a new EU Treaty which was signed in Lisbon in December last year.
Let me express my appreciation of the personal commitment of Chancellor Angela Merkel and Prime Minister José Sócrates which has led to this result.
The Berlin Declaration and the agreement in principle, contained in it, that the European Union should be given a new treaty basis, was the first breakthrough on the road to Lisbon.
Following successful agreement on the mandate for an intergovernmental conference at the European Council in June, the work of the German Presidency was successfully continued by our Portuguese colleagues.
I would also like to highlight the important role of the European Commission in reaching agreement on the new treaty.
The President of the Parliament, Hans-Gert Pöttering, and the President of the Commission, José Manuel Barroso, demonstrated great personal commitment in offering strategic assistance to both presiding countries last year.
The synergy of the efforts made by all three key institutions of the European Union made possible the success and the signing of the Lisbon Treaty.
This Treaty will ensure greater effectiveness and democracy in the functioning of an enlarged European Union.
It will facilitate decision-making in many new areas and strengthen the role of the European and national parliaments.
However, our task was not ended by the signing of the Treaty.
We hope that by the end of our presidency most Member States will have followed this example.
The Slovene Parliament will take a decision on ratification by the end of this month.
The objective is to enact the Treaty on 1 January 2009.
Ladies and Gentlemen, the progress of the European Union in the fields of economic reform in the Member States and the construction of the internal market has been encouraging in recent years.
There are many problems which could challenge such growth and thus there is a need for constant reform and adaptation.
However, investment in knowledge alone is not enough.
At the end of our presidency I would gladly report to you that agreement has been successfully reached on this matter.
In 2006 the European Commission demonstrated conclusively in its communication 'Enlargement - Two Years After' that the greatest enlargement to date, namely that in 2004, benefited both the old and the new Member States of the European Union.
The Slovenian Presidency will endeavour to continue the accession negotiations with Croatia and Turkey on these bases.
The countries of the Western Balkans are a case in themselves.
The presidency intends to promote their progress in this direction.
We want the European Union to intervene more actively in this area and to step up its involvement in assisting these countries in their reform processes.
We should not forget that a firm and tangible prospect of EU membership is an essential lever for bringing about the necessary changes and reforms in these countries.
At the very core of the Western Balkans lies Kosovo.
In the 1970s Kosovo gained autonomy and became part of the federal system of the former Yugoslavia.
Furthermore, it appears unlikely that it will be possible to reach agreement on the issue in the UN Security Council in the foreseeable future.
On the other hand, we all know that further delay in resolving the issue could drastically destabilise a large part of the Western Balkan region.
The Slovenian Presidency will build on the decisions of the European Council in December.
We have the foundations on which to build consensus, we have the European Union's political agreement in principle to deploy a civilian mission to Kosovo, and we agree that maintaining the status quo is unsustainable and that the issue of Kosovo is a particular problem which cannot be applied to any other situation in the world.
Within this framework the presidency will coordinate solutions which enjoy the broadest possible support within the European Union and at the same time ensure long-term stability in the region.
All the countries of the Western Balkans are important to Europe, to the European Union.
It is more important to Slovenia than to many other Member States of the European Union as it lies in our direct vicinity and the present situation in the Balkans is an unfinished story in the geopolitical transformation following the end of the Cold War.
Serbia has traditionally played an important role in the Western Balkans.
It is vital that we encourage Serbia on the road to Europe through an appropriate approach and in spite of the short-term turbulence and wavering.
It has implemented many successful reforms but still has to implement others and we must help it in that respect.
The earliest possible resolution of Kosovo's status is also very important to its internal stability.
We should also mention the role of Albania which had a distinct history after the Second World War but we now value for its contribution to stability in the region and its constructive approach to resolving the issue of Kosovo's future status.
The post-Dayton structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina with an international presence and internal political instability has shown us in recent months that this country requires special attention.
Punishment of these crimes against humanity, peace and reconciliation are of fundamental importance to the European future of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
There are numerous reasons for further strengthening our cooperation with neighbours, strategic partners and others.
The EU is a whole and only as a whole can it be sufficiently effective in establishing peace, stability and progress in the neighbouring area and beyond.
We will also strengthen cooperation with our strategic partners in the world.
During the Slovenian Presidency we would like to consolidate and, if possible, formalise our partnership and cooperation with the Russian Federation.
Europe is entering 2008 with a signed Lisbon Treaty, an enlarged Eurozone and Schengen area, solid economic growth, a stable Euro and over three and a half million more jobs than at the beginning of the previous year.
We have much to say about the economic rise of India and China.
He pointed to these changes and to the growing strength of two new economic superpowers, India and China.
Incidentally, this week those two countries signed a number of bilateral economic and trade agreements.
Finally, I wish to say that it is not sufficient to address the changes facing the European Union in a global world solely in terms of competitiveness and the fight against terrorism.
The first challenge is the issue of UN reform and the establishment of a new world order.
The international development aid provided by the European Union is substantial but not always used effectively.
The third challenge is combating climate change.
The fourth challenge is, of course, intercultural dialogue.
Therefore, we are pleased that 2008 is also a year in which the European Union is devoting great attention to intercultural dialogue.
From time to time we hear that the above issues are not really true priorities of the European Union and that we should deal with domestic problems, but I am convinced that that is too narrow a view because the establishment of peace and security for our citizens, stable and secure EU energy supplies and the management of migration pressures on the European Union largely depend on how we resolve these four key issues in future and how the European Union exercises its increased role and influence in a global world.
The more the European Union is capable of acting as a global player on these bases, the greater guarantees it citizens will have of peaceful and secure lives and stable economic and social development.
Ladies and Gentlemen, allow me to conclude by assuring you that Slovenia will take on, or has taken on, this task before it with complete responsibility and after three years of intensive preparations.
Thank you. (Applause) Many thanks to the President-in-Office of the Council, Prime Minister Janša.
The Group Chairmen will soon be expressing their affirmations, but I can say now, on behalf of the entire Parliament, that the European Parliament stands alongside Slovenia in creating a successful European Union and we are therefore sure that the Slovenian Presidency will be a great success.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, Prime Minister, Members of Parliament, my first word goes to the Slovenian Presidency.
The example of Slovenia demonstrates that the Member States which joined the European Union in 2004 and 2007 are now at the core of European integration.
I wish to express to Prime Minister Janša my full support for the next six months for the very important task of being President of the European Council.
Listening to you today, Prime Minister Janša, could only reinforce my firm belief that this enlargement of 2004-2007, which united Europe in peace and democracy, is indeed one of the greatest achievements of European history, and we should be proud of it.
The Commission will work very closely with the Slovenian Presidency on central issues of its programme, such as the stability of the Western Balkans, Kosovo, and Bosnia in particular, but also enlargement, the European neighbourhood policy, asylum and immigration, cooperation with strategic partners and intercultural dialogue.
I would like to focus on three priorities: the Treaty of Lisbon, the package on energy and climate change, and the renewed Lisbon Strategy.
The year 2007 leaves the European Union in good shape.
The political priority for this year is the successful ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
The Commission is now acting on that mandate.
Our package will complement the proposals presented last year on the energy internal market.
A European energy market will give more options and better prices to European citizens, and it is essential to meet the three central challenges which the European Union faces in energy: competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
The Commission will follow a balanced approach to efforts asked of the Member States.
The energy and climate change package should be seen as an opportunity for Europe in economic terms.
The Union should lead global efforts to tackle climate change, and European industries should continue to be world leaders.
At the same time, we will also create new markets and new jobs and will have the 'first mover' advantage in many of those sectors.
It is true that our package aims at a more environment-friendly Europe, but it will also contribute to a more industry-friendly, a more job-friendly and a more consumer-friendly Europe.
Three years after the relaunch in 2005, the Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs is working.
It has contributed to a better performance of the European economy, in particular to the creation of 6.5 million new jobs over the last two years.
This is a priority for the Commission in 2008.
Economic forecasts for 2008 and 2009 are already slightly less optimistic, and we should take these signals seriously.
Global competition and the prosperity of our citizens require that Europe continue its reform process to be a more competitive economy.
This is the only way to keep our model, our European model of social cohesion.
One of the keys to success in 2007 was the Commission's ability to work well with Parliament and the Council.
The triangular institutional partnership between Parliament, the Slovenian Presidency of the Council and the Commission will be crucial to our success in 2008.
With a ratified Treaty, an agreed energy and climate change package, and a delivering Lisbon Strategy of growth and jobs, we will certainly have in 2009 a more confident and a better prepared Europe to face the future.
Finally, let me thank President Pöttering for his congratulations on the 50th anniversary of the first meeting of the European Commission.
The European Commission has been at the centre of the European integration process as a source of dynamism and ambition, as a reference for all those who believe in the European project.
The European Commission will remain loyal to Walter Hallstein and all the founding fathers who, 50 years ago, launched this great institution as a central player in our common project.
In close cooperation with Parliament and with the Council, we will continue to promote our common goals: a strong Europe, an open Europe, a Europe of freedom, prosperity and solidarity.
And we are quite sure that, working hand-in-hand with the Slovenian Presidency and with Prime Minister Janša, we will achieve concrete results for our citizens.
Walter Hallstein said on 16 January 1958 - I quote, because it is a short sentence addressed to the Members of the Commission: 'Your work will bear fruit, however, only when there is close cooperation with the other bodies, particularly the Council of Ministers and Parliament's Assembly.' End of quote.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the European Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is fortunate that the desire of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Europe in 2008 to be effective and able to respond to the concerns of its citizens coincides with the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union.
Slovenia, your beloved country, Prime Minister Janša, is indeed a country that works.
You have also joined the Schengen area and you are now the first of the new Member States to take the reins of the EU.
The Slovenian Presidency undeniably marks the integration of the new Member States within the European Union.
By taking responsibility for following through the ratification process of the Lisbon Treaty, by directing the efforts being made by the 27 Member States to meet the challenges Europe has to face in terms of energy and climate change, growth and employment, by continuing the integration process of the Western Balkans, by contributing through your initiatives to the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, which will provide the chance to reaffirm the values of openness, tolerance and dialogue that are at the heart of the European project, the Slovenian Presidency is showing that the countries that have joined the EU since 2004 are now familiar not only with the EU's institutional affairs, but also with its internal functioning and the way Europe asserts its interests at international level.
Effectiveness is therefore vital if ratification is to be achieved so that new instruments are available by the time of the European Parliament elections in 2009.
Our group will also support your efforts to launch the new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy effectively and to guarantee a prosperous, equitable and environmentally-friendly future for Europe and ensure our economy is in a good position to benefit from the opportunities offered by globalisation.
Therefore, to create favourable conditions for social growth, to make knowledge and innovation drivers for growth and to find answers for demographic challenges, energy supply and climate change, Europe must play a dominant role in negotiations with its global partners on a post-Kyoto system.
President-in-Office of the Council, concerning the Balkans and the prospects for the Western Balkans joining Europe, we will support your efforts to foster stability and cooperation in the region, because the security and prosperity of the whole EU depend on this.
The EU and your Presidency must play their part in resolving the issue of Kosovo's status.
Slovenia will be the ideal promoter of dialogue between the different cultures, creeds and religious and spiritual traditions in the context of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue.
The Presidency of a state that has emerged from a communist dictatorship - and this should not be belittled - with a Prime Minister who was himself a victim of this dictatorship, is in fact a Presidency that not only deserves the full support of all democrats, but also has a great opportunity to recapture the hearts of the people again because it gives us here in Parliament as well as in Europe the opportunity once again to show that change is possible and in the long run freedom always prevails and democracy will always triumph!
Your country is also proof of this: no dictatorship in the world will survive in the long run.
It may do so for 10, 30 or 100 years, but in the end democracy always triumphs, and this is a positive sign.
One difference I would like to expand on is that yes, the enlargement of the European Union is not over.
The Council Presidency for the second half of 2008 does not want this.
The second difference - and we have listened very attentively to this - is that you consider the European institutions strong enough to organise the neighbourhood policy themselves by their own efforts.
The President-in-Office of the Council has talked about the opening up of the Schengen borders.
This, too, is an important point and I thank you for this commitment to the great opportunity that the associated freedom of movement offers our citizens.
I thank you, too, for the clear declaration - from a state like Slovenia, a state with your country's history - that you see it as an opportunity for the freedom of your people, because by it you are also sending out a signal against the far right in Europe, which abuses every one of these freedoms with its rhetoric of fear against Europe and makes people afraid of any imponderable developments instead of reassuring them of the opportunities that freedom brings. (Applause) I have a request for you, Commission President.
Clarification is therefore very important here. (Applause) One final comment to the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission.
Yes, Walter Hallstein was a great man.
Mr Hallstein was a fervent advocate of Turkey's membership of the European Union.
In this respect yes, Walter Hallstein was a great European! (Applause) Many thanks to my colleague, Martin Schulz.
If I had been in another role, it would have been a pleasure to give you an answer, but I am grateful for Walter Hallstein's friendly comments.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I should like to address some remarks to Prime Minister Janša.
It is an historic first for the countries which entered our Union in 2004.
President-in-Office, your country may be small in size but we know that it is mighty in spirit, and we know too that Europe's Davids often make better presidencies than its Goliaths.
Such unity will be vital to the early ratification of the Lisbon Treaty and to mustering support for an interinstitutional agreement on how to govern Europe under that new Treaty.
We regret that your seat was empty yesterday when we heard from the first guest in our Year of Intercultural Dialogue.
In other areas, you will have to flex your muscles a great deal more - particularly with your presidential counterparts who have a vested interest in promoting nuclear energy as the panacea of climate change.
In 2008, our Union must show, as President Barroso said, that it can turn fine words about combating climate change into action.
Progress in the Western Balkans is rightly one of your priorities and your experience and understanding of the area will be a bonus to our Union.
Nor am I sure it is a good way to motivate the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
But in the mean time, as you say in Slovenia, 'pray for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing'. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, the Slovenian Government is taking over the responsibility of the EU presidency at a time of many challenges.
Secondly, with regard to future enlargements: we must ensure that candidate countries feel they have an opportunity and a chance to become members of the European Union in the near future.
Thirdly and, in my opinion, most importantly, Kosovo and what is happening there, and a peaceful transition from its present status to whatever future status may emerge.
Your experience, Mr Prime Minister, as a rebel in one sense, as an intellectual but, most importantly of all, as a democrat and as the voice of reason that could lead your country from the dark ages of Communism into the bright lights - sometimes dimmed because of energy crises - and future of the European Union, that kind of image and that kind of imagery is what is most important to the people of Bosnia, Serbia, Kosovo and, indeed, Turkey.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are quite sentimental about Europe and what it has achieved as a model of peace and democracy and what it might achieve in terms of boosting people's freedom and well-being and representing a centre of innovation and consistency in tackling global environmental challenges.
In our view, a low carbon economy - here I am also addressing the President of the Commission - cannot be a nuclear economy; funding and wasting time on a new nuclear future which does not exist yet or on expensive technologies of uncertain application such as carbon sequestration and storage are actually in direct competition with the true renewable energies which we should encourage and fund: sun and wind energy, and energy saving, this latter being the most promising prospect for innovation and employment.
We are extremely concerned, not only by what is happening in my country, in Naples, but also because it seems to us that the lip service paid to the hierarchy of waste strategies, placing a priority on prevention and re-use, is actually contradicted by the text of this legislation, which once again gives priority to incinerators, which, in our view, are definitely not the only way of solving the waste problem.
You will have to battle hard with some of your colleagues on the issue of Parliament's assent to the economic partnership agreements with the ACP countries, which, following the strong disagreements with the African countries that emerged in Lisbon, we view as more vital than ever.
Then there is freedom of access to negotiating documents on the partnership and cooperation agreements with countries such as China.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, for this first Presidency of a new Member State, Slovenia is inheriting a number of rather thankless tasks from its predecessors.
I recall that the joint document of the German, Portuguese and Slovenian Presidencies underlines in point 68 that, I quote 'The overarching aims of the three Presidencies will be to strengthen the European Social Model as an integral part of the Lisbon Strategy'.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for the nice visit we had to Slovenia before Christmas.
Yesterday I received a petition from 571 Slovenian journalists criticising you for not respecting their press freedom.
To cancel a referendum is a violation of this article.
If you say something, you should remind Member States of the joint legal obligation to legislate as close to the citizens as possible.
You violate the Treaty, and so does the European Commission when it does not behave as guardian of this Treaty article.
Now it seems that only Ireland can save our European democracy.
But the Council could at least publish a consolidated version of the Lisbon Treaty, so that you would be able to read what you have signed.
On 17 December 2007, Hungary signed a text it had not even received!
Mr Bonde, we look to you as Chairman of your Group to ensure that you and your colleagues acquit yourselves in the House as parliamentarians.
Face up to the challenges in your own right rather than merely targeting others! (Applause) - (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, as a Member from Carinthia, an immediate neighbour of Slovenia, it is awe-inspiring and a pleasure for me that a nation that only 20 years ago was groaning under the yoke of communism is now in charge of the European Union for six months.
When I hear that Slovenia's aim during this Council Presidency is primarily to introduce all the states of the former Yugoslavia to the European Union, then I believe that it is right and it is important, in order to round off this process of European integration territorially, as it were.
I believe that this is considerably more important than, for example, the accession negotiations with a country like Turkey, whose primary territory is in Anatolia, in Asia.
I hope that Slovenia is able to bear in mind first and foremost Croatia's desire for EU membership and that conflicts like those surrounding fishing zones between Croatia and Slovenia, for instance, will not present any obstacle to this, because of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, Croatia, along with Slovenia, is undoubtedly the country that is most ready for Europe and a democratically mature, central European country.
Kosovo's autonomy should not become a precedent for Turkish Northern Cyprus.
The aim should be stability in the Balkans and the rounding off of European integration in territorial terms.
By the same token, I hope that Slovenia also finds a sensible solution regarding the German-speaking Austrian residual minority in Slovenia and recognises these people as an indigenous minority, and that the cultural convention between Austria and Slovenia can be full of substance in this regard. (SL) Ladies and Gentlemen, the programme of the Slovenian Presidency contains all the important topics of our time and is a good working basis for these six months.
I expect the Slovenian Presidency to devote appropriate attention to following the effects of the "SIS 1 for all” information system and accelerate the implementation of "SIS 2”.
The common asylum and migration policy must be based on close cooperation with the countries of transit and origin.
The third area is cooperation with Frontex, where the Slovenian Presidency, based on analysis of the Commission report, will prepare the guidelines for the future activities of that agency.
I therefore expect Slovenia, during its Presidency, to offer its good practice in every area to the other Member States.
I also hope for good cooperation between the Slovenian Presidency and the Parliament and Commission, and I am convinced that, after the Slovenian Presidency, it will be possible to say that the European Union has made a further step forward. (SL) I am proud that the Prime Minister of Slovenia is addressing the European Parliament today in the capacity of President of the European Council.
As the Prime Minister said, this is also a testimony not only to the dramatic changes witnessed in Slovenia in the last twenty years, but also to the almost unimaginable changes we have witnessed within Europe itself in this very short period of history.
The Vice-President of the European Commission said in Ljubljana that the start of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Council was the end of the division between the old and new members of the European Union.
Today Europe has the right to ask the Prime Minister of Slovenia, and Slovenia as the presiding country, what Europe can expect from Slovenia.
The success of the Prime Minister will be the success of the Slovenian Prime Minister, that of the whole of Slovenia and also my own success.
I am convinced that at the end of the Slovenian Presidency we will be able to establish that, as someone said, there are no minor or major members of the European Union, and that there are only those which are a little bit more or a little bit less successful in their Presidency of the European Union.
However, the task of the Presidency is an arduous one, which is why I would like to ask you also about the injustices taking place in the European Union.
This question is addressed not only to you but also to the President of the Parliament and the President of the European Commission.
In 2004 ten countries joined the European Union.
Prime Minister, today you spoke of western Balkans, Ukraine, Moldova, Caucasus and northern Africa without devoting a single word to the question of northern Cyprus.
It is right that in Ljubljana you started a dialogue between cultures and religions.
And the area where we could really achieve great success is precisely Cyprus.
And finally, Prime Minister, when you spoke about your culpability, that you were tried in a foreign language, I would rather you had said Serbo-Croat, or Serbian.
Once again, I wish you complete success in your Presidency. - (PL) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Prime Minister Janša on taking up the Presidency of the Union.
This is a historic moment in the history of European integration, it being the first time that a new Member State has taken up the Presidency.
For this reason I believe that the next six months will be fruitful in stabilising the situation in the Western Balkan region.
I am glad that energy policy will also be one of Slovenia's priorities.
We are only too well aware that a secure Europe cannot exist without us ensuring our energy security.
Mr President, my congratulations to Slovenia, and welcome to Prime Minister Janša: only four years a member of the EU and already the European Presidency.
It means work and responsibility, but it is also a proof of confidence in your young state, President-in-Office.
A big thing, but also a huge challenge - and you are not alone.
The European Commission has offered financial support.
Moral support comes from the European Council which, in the Conclusions under point 50, underlines that the EU should appear with concrete steps on Roma issues.
Political support comes from many MEPs from different groups in this House who are aware of Europe's forgotten nation, the Roma, many of them still victims of the latest Balkan wars, living as refugees spread all over Europe.
I have to say to you that, if we were serious about making that more than rhetoric - making that reality - it would in fact require a radical step change in our approach and in the content of our policy in this institution and across the institutions of the European Union.
I share the concerns of a previous speaker at the fact that referendums will not be held in Member States on the issue of the Lisbon Treaty.
President-in-Office, in Ireland you caused something of a stir: you were reported in the media as saying that it is important not to launch some discussions that might cause problems in our country.
If we are serious about democracy in the Union, if we are serious about a Union that cares, we certainly have to ensure that full information on policy initiatives and direction are given to the people. - (PL) Prime Minister, not long ago you said that the European Union was united not only by a common economy and policy, but also by the values of a common memory, culture and creativity.
Greetings to you, Prime Minister, from Poland, the land of Adam Mickiewicz.
Here in this Parliament the French President Valéry Giscard D'Estaing told me recently that he was always in favour of including a reference to the Christian God in the European constitution.
Prime Minister, you are right in saying that the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue is an opportunity for Europe to strengthen itself through culture.
Christian culture and religion, as Professor Tadeusz Zieliński, buried in Schöndorf near Munich, used to say, is expressed in human longing.
So let Slovenia, that small EU country, express this longing through its actions for the benefit of Christian culture in Europe.
This is where the greatness of your country in the EU lies; this is where the greatness of our Slavic EU countries lies. (The President cut off the speaker) (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the Slovenian Presidency wants to deal with the subject of the threat of climate change and with the policy of safe and sustainable energy.
Ladies and gentlemen, according to documented scientific conclusions nuclear energy is the form of energy that does not produce CO2 and minimises the aggravation of climate change.
I am convinced that if we wish to act in the interest of the citizens of the Union and deal with climatic change, we should invest in research, development and education in the field of nuclear energy. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Slovenian Presidency of the Council on its comprehensive programme, the final phase of the programme of the three Council Presidencies, and also on the successful development of your own country.
You are part of Schengen, you are part of the euro area, and it really is a historic Council Presidency, of which I make the request that you do not do as all the others before you have done and present a programme that even a large country would not be able to accomplish in six months.
As a smaller country, you have the solidarity of the larger countries as well as of the European Parliament.
The most difficult will be the Kosovo issue.
And if you succeed in moving ratification of the Lisbon Treaty forward, then you will be able to say at the end of this six-month Presidency: yes, as the first country from the former communist block, we have managed to shape this Council Presidency as a positive role model for prosperity, freedom and peace.
Finally, a minor observation for our colleague, Mr Schulz, who is no longer here.
However, one thing should also be stated very clearly for Serbia's ears, specifically to Prime Minister Koštunica: we believe that the future of Serbia, of a democratic Serbia, a Serbia that also cooperates with the ICTY, lies in Europe!
A clear signal should therefore be sent to Serbia under your Presidency: you must choose between Russia and the European Union on this issue.
This creates a burden on all our Member States.
In this Chamber we have had a lot of debate when it comes to the Lisbon Strategy and to adding economic development to sustainable social development and environmental issues.
It is very important that sustainable economic development is reflected in the green package when it is delivered next week.
Slovenia is a forestry country, as is my own country, Sweden, and I think it is very important that you have all the different alternative fuels on the table so that you can pick and choose and let innovation get the full potential of the whole thing.
Look at the transport sector, which is a perfect example of how trains and cars can achieve not only economic development and a better internal market, but also the goals of the energy package.
I wish you all the best luck in the world, President-in-Office. - (PL) Mr President, Slovenia is the first of the new Member States to take on the Presidency of the European Union.
It is difficult to discern such a positive approach in the most important EU documents that have been passed, such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Reform Treaty.
This has certainly been subject to criticism, partly because of the aspects of disintegration which it has involved, and Europe should now counter this by promoting peace and rapprochement, encouraged by the very relationship with Europe.
We need to tackle the problems of the new external borders which have arisen as a result of some countries' accession to the European Union.
We need an active policy for social, economic and environmental integration which encompasses the entire area, and frankly I do not see nuclear power as a solution to energy problems.
Finally, I would like to remind the Slovenian Presidency of the problem of the 'erased', that is, those former Yugoslav citizens who still have citizenship problems in Slovenia, so that it may be definitively resolved. - (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, we were told very graphically as children how General Tito tore through the streets of Belgrade, people jumping aside - it was closed, no traffic regulations were in force.
The Tito here, in his attitude, for instance, is our Secretary General, Harald Rømer, who tears through this city of Strasbourg and does not fear the consequences even if it is at 100 kilometres an hour and people also have to jump aside.
Mr President, may I warmly welcome the Prime Minister to Parliament and wish him well in his period as President-in-Office of the Council.
I feel sure that Slovenia will carry out the task ahead with great competence.
Europe needs to be more competitive, more focused on creating new jobs and less concerned with protecting a social model that hampers employment growth.
I read with concern in the press this week that some Member States are trying to undermine the EU agreement of last year on climate change, and we will pay particular attention to see that the British Government lives up to the commitments it has entered into. (NL) Mr President, I would like to return to the situation with regard to Serbia.
I think that it is a good idea to set up a task force analogous with that for Croatia, as proposed by the Slovenian Presidency, to help Serbia cooperate fully and effectively with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague.
Ukraine now has a new government, and negotiations are to start on the successor to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with that country.
We are not in favour of offering membership to Ukraine at this time - that is definitely not on the table - but it is important to offer the country something more tangible in terms of its links with the European Union.
I would now like to say a few words about the situation with regard to Georgia, another country covered by the European Neighbourhood Policy.
What I consider important now is that both the European Union and the Presidency take initiatives to at least foster links between the opposition in that country and President Saakashvili.
We also want to engage in dialogue with Russia about the quality of democracy in that country, however, and in particular the problems we have experienced recently with election observation and the way we see this versus the way Russia sees it.
I hope that this subject, too, will be on the Slovenian Presidency's agenda. - (PL) Mr President, I think we are anticipating that in 2008 the Slovenian Presidency will enable the European Union to settle the matter of the Constitutional Treaty and make preparations for its ratification, and that it will also enable a solution to be found to one of the awkward problems that Europe faces - the problem of Kosovo.
Your country, once a part of the former Yugoslavia, with its awareness of the problems of the worlds of Christianity and Islam, will certainly provide the impetus for a fair outcome for Kosovo, with respect for the rights of Serbs. (SL) It is with joy and pride that I am sharing with you festive feelings accompanied, of course, by a strong feeling of responsibility and great opportunities.
I am convinced that Slovenia will also show through the Presidency that its inauguration, years ago, was not just a geo-political decision, but also an acknowledgement that we were willing to cooperate responsibly in the creation of a free, democratic and successfully united Europe.
That is essential for implementation of the Lisbon strategy, not only because of the contribution to the essential increase in competitiveness, but also to get closer to the citizens.
I am very pleased, and I am not the only one in this Parliament, that the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency also include the fight against cancer.
Every third citizen of Europe can expect to contract this disease and the trends are not promising.
It is a wide social and political question that is also connected with implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
I will be pleased if we achieve two things during the Slovenian Presidency.
Prime Minister, with your Presidency the new Member States have taken a new step on the road towards coming of age.
It is likely that your Presidency will contribute to melting the reservations that have never existed in the European institutions but which have been present in the everyday life of the European Union.
You have the first Presidency in the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue.
This is particularly well known in the Western Balkans, since Yugoslavia papered over the dividing lines, but could not bridge them.
The Member States' enlargement fatigue cannot become reform fatigue in this region, since it would endanger the stability of our region.
In Parliament we are looking to you to make clear to us - if we don't manage to achieve a Security Council resolution - that Resolution 1244 is a watertight legal basis for all ESDP measures.
I am from North Rhine-Westphalia and learnt from 2 300 people in Bochum yesterday that Nokia are closing their production facilities and will be relocating to Romania.
Despite this, as Commissioner Almunia said two months ago, Commission President, you have conceded that this rise in inflation is one of the consequences of accession to Euroland.
This is exactly what Ossetia and Abkhazia in Georgia are looking for, but Moscow is also interested in destabilising the situation in the South Caucasus.
This may actually threaten war in that region, and the greatest military conflict in Europe since the Balkans flare-up of the early 1990s.
It took decisions such as sending a civilian mission, but apparently with no agreement on the legal basis.
The issue of Kosovo is a delicate one, requiring caution.
In May, as you mentioned, there will be the important Lima Summit with the Latin American countries, which are so close to Europe in terms of principles and values.
Lima should also be used as a lever to break the deadlock in the negotiations with Mercosur and to drive forward the negotiations with the Andean countries and Central America on their respective association agreements.
We know Slovenia as a country which addressed, without much ado, persistently and consistently, the big issues of its transition and today has every reason to be referred to as 'Eastern Europe's best performer'.
You have every chance of achieving this because today's discussion showed both political and institutional consensus in your support.
I feel I must mention that for the first time the Council will be speaking a Slavic language.
Janša, for us, Socialists, it is important that the Slovenian Presidency be a success, and we will not just sit aside and observe, we will yield our real support for your efforts as best as we can and as far as our powers go, so that you can implement your programme.
I wish you success, so that you can prove that a small country can be big in Europe. (IT) Mr President, Prime Minister Janša, ladies and gentlemen, welcome, Prime Minister, on behalf of that radical party and those comrades who rushed to achieve your release, with the comrades and friends of the Mladina magazine, in late 1988.
You were in prison for the sake of democracy and for the sake of Europe.
If, on behalf of your country, Slovenia, you are going to be what you have been, then you will be the one here standing for the Europe of Altiero Spinelli, not we who represent Europe, not we who often represent its disintegration. (The President cut off the speaker) - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the night between 20 and 21 December 2007 we extended the Schengen border.
As a European, but particularly as an Austrian, a friend, a neighbour and an ally, I am very pleased about this.
President-in-Office of the Council, this debate revolves around six items.
Fourthly, your geographical position, experience of history and the timing of your Presidency give you special responsibility in terms of Croatia's accession, freedom for Kosovo and the agreement with Serbia.
The sixth and final item: do not confuse your European responsibility with the bilateral issues to be resolved or Austria's responsibility towards the Slovenian minority in Austria.
Bilateral treaties between two Member States do not fall within the European Union's remit. (FR) President-in-Office, you have come before us with modesty.
You have even mentioned potential errors, and admitted to possible naivety.
These are not my words, they are the words of Mohamed El Baradei, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency and a Nobel Peace Prize winner.
Most of all, does it really think it may one day be possible to denuclearise the region by avoiding any mention of the taboo that is Israel's nuclear programme? (RO) Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you on addressing us today as President of the Council.
Slovenia has the admiration of the other European nations for its remarkable development since 1990 and for meeting the standards for accession - be they negotiation chapters, adoption of the single currency, or the Presidency of the Council.
I would also like to congratulate you on defining the priorities of the EU for the next 6 months, in cooperation wth the German and Portuguese governments.
Undoubtedly, it is desirable that the Lisbon Treaty, which puts and end to a prolonged identity crisis in the European Union, be ratified as soon as possible and acknowledged as an authentic democratic act by all European citizens.
At the same time, it is also desirable that the goals of the Lisbon Strategy should be put into practice as soon as possible, because we are facing a wave of pessimism among the citizens concerning this policy.
The latest European Commission Eurobarometer of December 2007 indicates a relative drop in citizens' confidence in both of the Strategy's components: economic growth and employment.
Unemployment remains a major concern for European citizens, although there has been significant improvement compared with 2006.
With the new cycle starting in 2008 for the Lisbon Strategy, the European Parliament will adopt an action plan concerning workforce mobility, in order to strengthen employment at European level.
However, there is still the issue of restricted access to the European labour market, affecting over 100 million European citizens.
I firmly believe that in this way Europe will secure its economic future by safeguarding the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Treaty. (IT) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as an Italian I would like to welcome particularly warmly the fact that Slovenia holds the Presidency of the Council; that, of the countries who have recently joined the European Union, it falls to Slovenia to be the first to hold the Presidency; and that Slovenia is now in the Schengen area together with other European countries.
I believe that other new Member States, when preparing for their presidencies, will be able to learn a lot from Slovenia's experience.
The Slovenian Presidency's undertaking to strengthen the EU's role as a global leader in combating climate change and the use of renewable energy is to be welcomed.
For several years climate change and energy problems have been a focus of attention for the public and politicians.
The Slovenian Presidency's undertaking to pay more attention to the western Balkans, including the Kosovo issue, is understandable.
Thank you for your attention, and I wish the Slovenian Presidency every success in its work. (NL) The President-in-Office of the Council bears the important responsibility of launching a new cycle of the Lisbon process at the forthcoming Spring Summit.
To be frank, my group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, takes the view that the proposals presented to us by the President of the Commission in December lack ambition.
Lisbon did not prevent a situation in which 78 million people risk descending into poverty and in which a large proportion of the jobs created are precarious and do not offer a decent income.
I was this Parliament's general rapporteur for the enlargement round of the 12 countries and now seeing a country from this line-up take over the Presidency for the first time personally gives me great pleasure.
You have a difficult problem ahead of you with Kosovo, and you have an exceptional opportunity to sort this out for us because you know this region very well.
We therefore request clarification on this because if these rumours were to be repeated, great harm would be done to the European concept. - (EL) Mr President, the Slovenian Presidency is very fortunate to be following on from two successful presidencies.
The Slovenian Presidency supports the plans for the accession of the Western Balkan States.
You talked with pride of Slovenia and you talked with some emotion of your experience in the prison cell.
One is on our environment, because alongside human rights and our Lisbon Agenda goes a clean environment, a healthy environment and, indeed, a healthy people.
You are a small country, a proud country, and the small countries of Europe are usually the best Presidents of the European Union.
We still have another 10 minutes' 'catch the eye', each with a minute at the most. (SL) The many good wishes addressed to Slovenia as the first of the new Member States to take over the Presidency of the Council indicate that the activities of Slovenia will attract special attention.
In this short minute I would like to mention climate change and the energy policy, because Europe has set extremely ambitious aims for itself to develop into a society with low carbon emissions.
I would like Slovenia to put forward some concrete proposals and projects and to achieve results in that area. - (PL) Mr President, Prime Minister, Slovenia's Presidency is facing many ambitious tasks.
Perhaps this could also happen in the case of EU Member States such as Cyprus.
The situation in Kosovo is a continuation and a result of interventionist policies and is a problem that can be resolved only within the framework of the UN and existing international law, without external intervention and infringement of the principles of its very charter.
Mr President, as a Finn I am a big fan of ski-jumping, and - to use an allegory - I would say to the Prime Minister that the task of the Slovenian Presidency is like the Planica hill, the instruments that you have are like Elan skis and I hope you have the willpower of Primož Peterka.
I think that this is going to be a successful Presidency for three reasons: one, you have prepared extremely well; two - and we heard it in your speech today - you are extremely humble; and three, you are very businesslike.
Therefore it is your historic challenge and chance, Prime Minster, to take the lead also in promoting integration of different historic experiences, to create a united and balanced perception of our history as a common European history.
In this respect it is interesting as to who makes the most use of it. (SV) Mr President, first let me offer my heartfelt congratulations to Slovenia and wish you all the best for the Presidency.
I want to be sure that you really answer this question.
If the situation had been so complicated in Bosnia and worse than in Kosovo, your statement would have been positively dangerous.
I therefore expect an answer. (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister, we have various projects that are very important for us, including the 'Research on Small and Medium-sized Enterprises' project.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Ladies and Gentlemen, thank you for the debate, questions, proposals and suggestions with such lively and interesting content.
Ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is certainly one of the key political priorities of the European Union in 2008.
We do not wish to interfere in the internal affairs of any country, either as a Member State or as the State holding the Presidency for these six months.
We will attempt to accomplish as much as possible in all the areas listed as priorities, as well as in the others.
Certainly, the environment and energy package will be one of the key challenges in the next six months and up to the end of this year.
The Lisbon strategy is clear about that, and I would like to emphasise that the story does not end there.
This is where the story of social justice begins and both stories are important.
As regards the most frequently raised questions relating to the situation in the western Balkans, I would like to answer some very specific questions and firstly those relating to the legal foundations of the solution to this problem.
The unity of the European Union in solving this problem will be one of our priorities.
I would like to remind you that a similar question and discussions about legal foundations in the mid-90's of the last century led to more than 100,000 deaths in Bosnia and Herzegovina and one million people being displaced.
Once more I would like to emphasise the significance of the cooperation and synergy which we can achieve with the joint participation of all three key institutions of the European Union - the European Parliament, the European Commission and, of course, the Council.
All contributions to the debate from the responsible group chairmen and other Members have created the impression that you can count on the enormous and unreserved support of the European Parliament.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you for this very interesting debate, where I think there was a very large consensus supporting the priorities that were presented by the Slovenian Presidency.
During my first statement I highlighted some - because I could not go into detail on all aspects - of the priorities for our work during these six months: the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, the new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy and also our climate and energy package.
Specifically on this point, I was very encouraged by the support that many of you gave to our work on this matter.
It is a question of coherence and of credibility, and I was very encouraged by the support given to this during today's debate.
I would like just to answer one question that was brought to the debate by Mr Schulz, Mr Lambsdorff and Mr Brok regarding a specific problem that is now being discussed in Germany - the question of possible funding for relocation of a company in Europe.
The European Commission has not received any project relevant to this issue, so the Commission can confirm that no European regional development funding is implicated in this relocation.
This is important and I will draw the attention of all my colleagues here, especially our German friends, to this debate and how important it is to have a responsibility in this debate.
We have to make a distinction between delocalisation outside the European Union and relocation in Europe.
If investment goes from Finland to Germany, it can also go from Germany to Romania.
It is very important that European leaders at all levels in the European Union - in the Commission, in the European Parliament, but also at national level - also have the courage to explain the benefits of enlargement. (Applause) Germany is the country that is now exporting more to the new Member States.
The enlargement of the European Union is creating jobs in Germany too.
But I call on all those who are pro-European to stand up and defend this united enlarged Europe, and also to exploit the benefits that we all, in all the new Member States, are getting from this more dynamic Europe that we can build today. (Applause) Many thanks, President of the Commission, for this statement.
The cost, in terms of financial resources and organisational inconvenience, incurred by Europe due to this monthly change of location is becoming truly unacceptable in the eyes of citizens, who cannot understand the reasons for such an absurd situation.
The seat in Strasbourg, which is of course a magnificent city, could be used for other prestigious purposes within the EU's activities.
in writing. - (PT) As was clear from the debate, and as expressly stated in its programme, the Slovenian Presidency will continue to follow closely the agenda of the German Presidency, giving priority to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
We know that the political elites of the European Union want the Treaty to be ratified by all Member States before the 2009 elections.
We are also afraid that the situation unfolding in Kosovo is more of a threat to peace and development in Europe if there is a unilateral declaration of independence.
Meanwhile, the serious social problems of unemployment, precarious employment, poverty and growing social and territorial inequality remain unsolved.
in writing. - (PT) With the Slovenian Presidency of the Council comes the opening of the third act of the farce orchestrated by the forces promoting federalist, neoliberal and militarist integration in Europe, in which the EU - with Germany at the helm - imposes a treaty that was previously rejected, avoiding the holding of national referendums.
The Slovenian Presidency's programme meets all the requirements of one who is interested in economics and is convinced that being in good economic shape is one of the keys to the success of the Union.
In the Presidency's programme I have found many important references to the Lisbon Strategy and to the role of the internal market in the process of strengthening the EU in the international arena.
The Presidency's programme is very ambitious, but it also sets out its priorities clearly, and I agree with those priorities.
in writing. - (HU) Before I start, I would like to welcome the ambitious programme of the Slovenian Presidency, which is treating the important cohesion of the Western Balkans as a prominent question for the whole EU.
According to the Commission's annual report for 2006, the accession of 2004 was a great result for the old and new Member States, but the smooth management of the process was the key factor in its success.
Maximum support from the Slovenian Presidency in fulfilling all the priorities of its programme is essential for handling these matters appropriately, including the creation of the preconditions for Croatian and Turkish accession.
The fundamental interest of the EU is supporting the processes of reform in the Western Balkans, and in sorting out the Kosovo situation within the framework of the European Perspective in a way that is acceptable to everyone.
It is our joint responsibility to support the programme of the Slovenian Presidency so as to achieve the main objectives of the Union.
All the countries that have joined the European Union since 2004 are proud of the fact that one of them - Slovenia - is taking on the Presidency.
The priorities for the first half of 2008 are to a large extent evidence that the work of Slovenia's predecessors is being continued, primarily in the sphere of revival of the Lisbon Agenda, ratification of the new Treaty and action to prevent global warming.
Continuity of work is a desirable feature in the European Union, bearing in mind the half-yearly cycle of the Presidency.
We also hope that a country which has gone through the labour of transformation and adaptation to EU standards will appreciate the problems new Member States face in terms of unreasonable obligations regarding renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. - (SK) The start of 2008, of 'Together in Diversity: the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue', is a significant period for the EU, all the more so due to the fact that the EU Presidency in the first half of the year will for the first time be held by a new Member State, Slovenia.
Slovenia has an opportunity to become the architect of EU world leadership in the fight against global warming.
I expect that Slovenia will do everything possible to make sure that the decision on whether to introduce the euro in Slovakia by the planned deadline of 1 January 2009 has a positive outcome.
I hope that by its actions the Slovenian Presidency can convince 500 million European citizens that even a small country with 2 million people is capable of successful leadership of the EU during its six-month presidency.
in writing. - (FR) I would like to give my warmest wishes for success to the Slovenian Presidency, which represents a form of consecration of the reunification of a Europe divided by the Cold War.
It is a major challenge to which we must all contribute, in each of our respective Member States, to ensure that the forthcoming French Presidency can put this new common foundation definitively in place before the European elections in 2009.
The Slovenian Presidency must also continue and complete the Lisbon Strategy to meet the challenges Europe has to face on energy and climate change, growth and employment.
I sincerely hope that the Slovenian Presidency will manage to guarantee peace and stability in the Western Balkans and produce a unified EU approach to the issue of the final status of Kosovo so that 2008, the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, can truly be a chance for all Europeans to reaffirm their values of tolerance and mutual understanding.
in writing. - (HU) It is of historical significance that a new Member State that joined the Union in 2004 is leading it in the first half of 2008.
The most important duties of the Slovenian Presidency are helping with the ratification process for the Lisbon Treaty, dynamically setting in motion the new three-year cycle for the Lisbon Strategy and continuing to develop the integrated energy and climate protection policy.
The Slovenian Presidency is handling the integration of the Western Balkans, especially the question of Kosovo's future status, as a priority.
Slovenia's sensitivity and knowledge of the region may make the complicated organisation process a little easier and promote preservation of the unity achieved by the European Council of December 2007 with regard to the missions to be sent to Kosovo.
The Presidency will also emphasise programmes for the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue in 2008.
We are cheering on our Slovenian friends, so that they have a successful Presidency.
I am sure that the Slovenian policies and diplomacy will successfully solve the difficult tasks, and that, as a new Member State, we can be proud of our neighbour.
