Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund (debate) The next item is the report by Claude Turmes, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Martin Luther King had a dream.
It is our assumption that within four or five years there will be EUR 500 million in this Fund, making it the world's largest fund for investment in renewables and energy efficiency.
These EUR 500 million will come in part from the public purse, with around EUR 80 to 150 million from the European budget, but also from the national governments' budgets.
The financial analysts who look in detail at flows of investment into individual renewable energy and energy efficiency projects have observed that it is difficult to attract risk capital for investments of less than EUR 10 million.
It will be attractive for private investors because the public purse will in effect cover all the investment risk, so that the returns on the investments - if these investments yield any returns, that is - will go first to private investors and only in the second phase will they go back into the public purse, and that of course provides a great deal of security for private investors.
The amount to which Mr Turmes has referred is indicative, as it is a minimum to be invested in these regions.
As a result, international funding bodies are not prepared to fund such projects, particularly if their value is below EUR 10 million, as you have said.
As you said earlier, with the additional commitments by the governments of Germany and Norway, we have exceeded EUR 100 million.
We expect that additional business risk capital will be drawn from the private sector, amounting to at least EUR 300-500 million, or perhaps as much as EUR 1 billion, in the slightly longer term.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SL) Climate change mitigation and energy are two important components of the European Union's development policy.
The proposal was made in 2006 and we are debating it only this year.
It is vital that energy efficiency and renewable energy play an increasing role in developing and emerging countries for a wide range of reasons - lowering carbon dioxide emissions, cutting energy supply dependence, tackling energy poverty and creating jobs and development opportunities - indeed, for all the same reasons that it is vital that energy efficiency and renewable energy play an increasing role here in the EU.
It is a very complex issue and I would like to thank you particularly for being so consistently transparent throughout these negotiations and for making it possible for us to look at the project from a holistic perspective.
Claude Turmes referred at the start of his speech to Martin Luther King's dream.
This fund is a public-private partnership, dedicated to financing the specific projects proposed by SMEs, whose value does not exceed 10 million euro.
Thus, in 2005, unpolluted energy sources represented 42% of the European primary energy production.
I agree that everything suggests at present that the support should principally target Africa and Latin America. (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and our rapporteur for a splendid draft, which I fully support.
Secondly, in the light of what I have just mentioned, it is right to support the Commission's proposal to set up a Fund, even though the EUR 80 million suggested is a meagre amount.
Of course we are concerned that projects in major countries like China and Russia will absorb all or too high a percentage of the available resources.
rapporteur. - Mr President, this will be a fund potentially of EUR 500 million, because it has a leverage factor of 3 to 5 on the private capital.
The EUR 100 million, EUR 120 million or EUR 150 million of public money will be able to leverage - at least we hope - another EUR 300 million or EUR 400 million to make EUR 500 million.
Ms Jordan Cizelj raised a very important question: how prepared are certain regions of the world for investments?
We in Parliament have voted an additional EUR 5 million from another budget line for institutional capacity building to frame this programme.
The vote will take place on Thursday 14 March.
The proposed budget for this fund under discussion is EUR 80 million between 2007 and 2010, with EUR 15 million in 2008 to kick-start the initiative.
in writing. - (HU) European Union support for distance heating!
in writing. - (PL) Renewable energy and energy efficiency contribute to reducing the rise in average temperatures across the world.
The development of renewable sources of energy in developing countries is very relevant indeed to the efforts aimed at limiting greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring security of supply in countries that are only able to meet part of their own energy requirements.
Accordingly, the Union should support renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency, especially in developing countries, because these are particularly important features of the strategy on energy and climate change and also of development policy.
