The importance of maritime matters to Europe is undeniable but that also gives Europe a tremendous responsibility.
In this connection, the first package of measures proposed by the Commission in March has been examined by Parliament and by the Council.
But the Erika and the Ievoli Sun were not French ships.
To achieve this, the Members of the European Parliament not only have a role to play - and I am well aware of their determination to do so - but, even more importantly, they are crucial in pushing forward Community regulations as far and as quickly as possible.
That is why I am delighted that, under the impetus of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council, significant progress is about to be made towards bringing about a truly safer maritime Europe.
The fact is that, on the basis of proposals we made last February, the European Commission put forward its own proposals with the greatest alacrity.
Today, you are examining these three texts in first reading.
I recognise that the European Parliament and its rapporteurs are motivated by an unshakeable will to see the rapid adoption of texts that are binding and effective in terms of maritime safety.
The question arises as to whether the fact that there is a new part-session of Parliament in December will make it possible for any residual problems to be solved.
We could seek the broadest consensus on the system of liability of classification societies, on toughening up the system of banning the worst offending black-listed flag states, on introducing on-board black boxes, and on putting in place immediate inspections for ships posing the highest risks.
What is more, on this occasion France reaffirmed the need to set in motion a Community project on the training and working conditions of seamen, and I know that some of you also share this concern.
As you can see, it seems to me that the determination of all Community institutions is decisive, and I am convinced this determination is total.
In fact, it has been among the highest priority items on the Commission's agenda ever since the fatal sinking of the Erika 11 months ago.
The European public no longer tolerates oil spills or other environmental disasters caused by industrial accidents in shipping or otherwise.
Indeed, citizens have the right to expect that ships are safe and that they can transport their cargo in an environmentally acceptable way without endangering the life and economy of people living on nearby coasts.
I believe it is fair to say that only after the Erika disaster did Member States and the international maritime community fully understand and feel the determination of the European institutions to improve maritime safety.
We hope and expect that the Transport Council, on 21 December, will add their part to the common determination among the European institutions to bring about a real improvement in maritime safety by the adoption of common positions on all three texts.
The lesson for this Parliament this morning must be that we have to conclude that maritime laws throughout the world are in a state of shambles and we have to begin the process of putting them right.
The main problem throughout the world is not the lack of maritime laws but the lack of the willingness of countries throughout the world to enforce them.
However, in my view as rapporteur, the proposal from the Commission simply does not go far enough.
Secondly, we make a demand again this morning for 'black box' style voyage data recorders to be fitted, not on just some ships or new ships, or in 10 or 20 years time, or whenever the IMO eventually agrees.
Finally, we have a clear message to the flags of convenience, the black-listed states.
As you know, there are still some problems with the other two reports.
I understand and I welcome the minister's efforts to expedite these two reports as quickly as possible and I therefore consider that, in principle, his proposal to discuss the matter, if possible in December, is a positive one.
Obviously, withdrawing single-hull tankers is a step in the right direction - in fact the IMO has also been making moves in this direction under the Marpol convention for some years now - and I think that the fact that the withdrawal of these tankers is being accelerated is even more encouraging.
In this sense, the initiative by the French Presidency to contact the IMO, the International Maritime Organisation, in a bid to find a solution was an important initiative, because this is an international problem and international problems need international solutions.
Parliament has taken a clear and unequivocal stand on the Commission's proposals, we are at the Council's disposal, in the hope, I repeat, that this issue will be brought to a close as quickly as possible, because all of us here, the Council, the Commission and the House, are acutely aware of the importance of this issue.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Erika accident on 12 December of last year and the Ievoli Sun accident more recently clearly revealed the limits of the action of some classification and inspection societies in terms of monitoring the construction and, above all, the seaworthiness of vessels that are under their responsibility by delegation from the flag states.
With this in mind, and in order to remove the obvious differences that exist on an international level between the various classification societies in terms of the competence of their inspectors, the level of development of their IT resources and the degree of technical requirements in their inspections, the Commission has presented us with a proposal to amend Directive 94/57/EC which will apply to all vessels, including those transporting oil products, and which establishes the rules that the Member States, and the classification societies authorised by them, should comply with.
There have also been talks with the sectors concerned and a great deal of contact with the French Presidency with the aim of being able to arrive at a text agreed by consensus that can be adopted quickly by the two legislative bodies: the Council and the European Parliament.
In this respect, there is a commitment to improving the quality of vessel inspections as a measure to prevent maritime accidents.
On the one hand, it is stipulated that the classification societies must have their own system of internal audits in order to measure the quality of their services in all the locations where they work, as well as clear rules for the responsibility and monitoring of all its branches and staff.
On the other hand, it requires that inspections only be carried out by specialist, exclusive inspectors, that they may not have a relationship with or be dependent on the shipowner in any way, and that the shipowner may not control the vessel classification society.
In this area, the initial proposals from the Commission and Parliament' s amendments aimed to define the system of financial responsibility for the classification and inspection societies.
However, the Commission has already announced a second package on maritime safety, which will propose a system of responsibility for all the parties implicated in accidents: shipowners, the owners of the cargo, classification societies, etc.
This report acknowledges the need for establishing cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
The transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a wider region, leads to the need for a Community-wide framework for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
Sharing information regarding hydrocarbons, radioactive substances and other harmful materials carried at sea or discharged into the sea, or which have been dumped as part of a historical dumping regime, is a vital prerequisite to facilitating the preparation and coordination of any responses necessary to mitigate the environmental and human health impacts of pollution incidents.
The polluter-pays principle is recognised, and the Member States should take this into account in order to provide compensation for damages.
Nature protection organisations are also included in cooperation at local level.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, this first package of directives on maritime safety is without doubt one of the most important actions our House is going to implement in the course of 2000.
France may have been especially hit by various maritime disasters, in particular by the recent wrecks of the Erika and the Ievoli Sun off the coast of Brittany, nevertheless what is at stake is the responsibility of the entire European Union, which managed to draw the necessary conclusions.
First of all, the action of Member States must be translated into action integrated at European level.
It is at this level that, in one way or another, this indispensable European cooperation must be found.
I know how much attention Mr Gayssot pays to the action of Equasis and now to Galileo, which we must implement.
Vigorous action must be taken on the question of flags of convenience, including that of the Kerguelen Islands in the case of France, and against ships which fly the flag of states with above average detentions and delays during the 36 months preceding the adoption of these directives, which are blacklisted in the annual report of the Paris Memorandum of Understanding.
I thank the rapporteurs and I urge my fellow Members in the European Parliament to take these proposals into consideration.
Amending the directive in terms of greater stringency in its application and the harmonisation of legislation, especially regarding the selection of ships for inspection and the scope of the different types of selection is clearly a positive step.
Since human error is the root cause of 70% of accidents, the inspection of crews, their living and working conditions, their level of training and their numbers must be an integral part of a ship' s inspection.
I am in complete agreement with the rapporteur about refusing port access to ships posing a serious risk, irrespective of age, and those that have been flying a flag of convenience for more than three years.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it was very honourable of you to ask at the last minute to have the votes on two of the directives postponed so that we can still reach an agreement.
The President of Parliament specially brought the debate and vote forward from the scheduled date in December to today's sitting.
I should like to express my very sincere thanks to the three rapporteurs and to say a few words on two or three specific points.
The Commission recently presented a report in which it documented the fact that Korea is pursuing a very unfair dumping policy in the shipbuilding industry.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we have some good reports here.
We must send out a clear signal to unsafe flag states, to shipowners, including those from the EU who use these flag states, to shippers who can then get cheaper prices, and to classification societies that are not doing their job properly.
Hence we will support a number of amendments tabled by Mr Vachetta.
Take the Ievoli Sun, a double-hull ship.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on 18 January 2000 I brought you a cake of crude oil from the Erika which had come ashore on a beach.
Faced with the disastrous and anarchic situation in maritime transport, Europe has taken up the challenge and, just 11 months after the loss of the Erika, will be in a position to announce that never has a procedure been worked out quite as quickly.
With the 'Erika I' package we will be placing the first foundation stone of a substantive European maritime safety policy, in anticipation, of course, of the 'Erika II' package.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the disasters of the past few months have brought to light the inadequacies of legislation, weaknesses in the systems of control and deficiencies in terms of human and financial resources.
The Watts report intensifies the measures against ships posing serious risks or flying flags of convenience without abolishing them altogether.
The Larrea report on classification societies harmonises legislation, develops sanctions that go as far as the withdrawal of authorisation, and increases compensation in the event of accident.
The vote on the Hatzidakis report will be linked to the vote on the rapporteur' s amendments.
In measurable terms, the liberal rationale is effectively opposed to a high level of maritime safety.
Hence the amendments to the Watts report presented by my group concerning social standards have been thrown out; yet the importance of the human factor is highlighted in each case.
Yes, it is time that the European Union committed itself to actually reforming the maritime system.
This demands a strong political will and the financial resources to put in place even more controls.
It is paying for the dramatic repercussions on its economy - the 2000 tourist season was a disaster.
If this were to happen, it is easy to see which waters and which ports the dangerous ships would head for.
This first package is simply a first step.
Flora and fauna, in particular birds, are the victims of oil and other forms of pollution.
His regime for ships that have been detained several times or that fly a flag which has been on the blacklist for three years, makes a great deal of sense.
We are all sick and tired of seeing our oceans and seas turned into dumping grounds.
The Council must commit itself to adopting stringent measures, which we are all hoping for, concerning port inspections, classification societies, the responsibility of shipowners and charterers and, finally, the responsibility of FIPOL, which is behaving in a scandalous manner.
That independence should be very clear at this time when many shipowners and proprietors are forming their own societies that are authorising boats.
Therefore, in general, we are not happy with the compromise text.
Mr President, since the breaking up of the tanker Erika, a package of measures has been devised, under political pressure, with a view to improving the safety of ships at sea.
Can you tell me what became of the 750 ships that Honduras removed from its register?
We do not want them in our ports or in our waters.
I therefore support the initiatives for a European maritime platform.
The Ievoli Sun was double-hull but contained chemicals in a particular form.
The age of ships is a factor, but not the most important one.
The human aspect of the whole issue is extremely important.
I would just like to concentrate on two dossiers: port state control and the phasing out of single-hull oil tankers.
Finally, everything we have said in our amendments in support of social and working conditions on board ships is quite simply a question of social and political solidarity.
The accidents which occurred in Greece, all of them were due in the end to so-called human error by people who were tired, who were sleepy, who had been working three days without a break and, so of course, they resulted in what has been so hypocritically referred to as so-called error.
The way to achieve this necessarily lies in deploring the financial links that exist in some cases between shipowners and classification societies and in involving the parties concerned - shipowners, shippers, insurers and maritime administrations - in order to find a comprehensive solution.
To conclude, I will recall that the Americans did not wait for us to promulgate the Oil Pollution Act in 1990 in response to the loss of the Exxon Valdez in 1989, whilst the loss of the Amoco Cadiz in France dates back to 1978.
Yesterday too, we received news from the Commission, borne by three Commissioners who really ought to know better, that the Commission is not prepared to extend aid to the European shipbuilding industry beyond 31 December.
The flags are at half-mast already, and I do not expect a rapid result at any price but rather the best possible result within the shortest possible time.
It is regrettable that nobody is looking beyond the classification societies in the present discussion of the liability issue.
Mr President, these texts have been imposed on us by exceptional, dramatic and repetitive circumstances and, faced with two accidents in less than a year, those of the Erika and the Ievoli Sun, public opinion has expressed a Europe-wide concern and a feeling of urgency.
The European Parliament has responded to this ambition of public opinion by means of a rapid, accelerated procedure, the credit for which must be firmly laid at the door of our four rapporteurs, Mr Hatzidakis, Mrs McKenna, Mr Watts et Mr Ortuondo Larrea.
Personally, I regret that, due to over-hastiness, or perhaps due to a lack of level-headedness, these ten days have been cruelly snatched from us, and I also regret that we have not taken the hand extended to us by the Council so that, in December, in ten days to be exact, we might achieve what it seems we are all apparently hoping for throughout this Chamber.
Mr President, I therefore appeal for the adoption of a common position on the liability scheme of classification societies, the system of banning ships, black boxes and systematic inspections, to tackle what we will doubtless be unable to reach agreement on today.
The French Presidency will have given the matter a crucial boost, the effects of which will unfortunately only be felt in two or three months' time.
But the real problem is the political will to adopt and implement measures binding upon all those endangering the community and the environment in order to make a profit.
The fuel dumps of Total and Shell, the charterers of the Erika and the Ievoli Sun respectively, should have been immediately confiscated until all the damage that had been inflicted due to their irresponsibility had been fully compensated.
The question is who can act.
Mr President, today we are discussing maritime safety on the basis of three reports, on which I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs warmly on.
The problem was, and remains, compliance with legislation, inspections and sanctions in the event of non-compliance.
Today we are discussing the safety of ships and flag states, port state control and the classification societies.
The second example is Honduras. 750 ships were in an unspeakably poor condition even by Honduran standards.
I do not think we can continue to operate with any credibility without a tracking system of this kind.
The reports that have been presented are a move in this direction.
This is demonstrated by the fact that the measures adopted at international level to improve safety and reduce accidental pollution have certainly had some success.
With regard to these three new proposals on maritime safety, I can only congratulate the three rapporteurs, who in a very short time have shown how determined our Parliament is to adopt new measures to enhance safety at sea, controls and construction standards, and that it is no longer tolerable that similar incidents should occur again.
I believe it is our duty to strengthen the enforcement of existing directives on these matters and to adopt new measures designed to clear our seas of sub-standard vessels, real sea-going old rust buckets.
In addition to adopting this package of measures, the European Union should, in my view, act in a worldwide context, identifying solutions agreed at international level that will improve maritime safety and at the same time not penalise our shipowners in comparison with others.
Parliament wants effective and coherent action for the sector.
We disagree with the idea according to which the fitness of classification societies depends on their size or even the number of inspectors on their staff, and prefer to be guided by the consequences of their certification, and therefore the system of civil liability compatible with the risk is necessary.
Portugal supported the changes to Directive 94/54 but disagrees with the abolition of classification societies by smaller countries.
They definitely have reacted quickly and worked swiftly for better rules and legislation regarding safety at sea in both the 'Erika I' and 'Erika II' proposals.
The phasing out of single-hull oil tankers will increase safety along EU coasts.
I thank my colleagues for this responsible approach and I urge agreement to be reached on the earlier drop-dead date of 2015.
More than 80 of accidents are associated with human error, but there are reasons for human error, which are social in nature.
As for the Paris Memorandum of Understanding, I believe it would be useful to amend it in such a way as to make inspections of the shipboard social conditions systematic and effective.
While I can understand this question, I believe that we must realise that, in this area, perhaps as never before, Parliament, the Commission and the Council did indeed display a willingness to act and to react speedily.
One can even assume that this initiative creates conditions not only for the European Union to adopt perfectly effective measures regarding the waters that concern it directly, but also measures to enable the IMO itself, as it were, to bring all these measures up to a fully global level within the coming months.
It has to be said that in the twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz accident some things were perhaps achieved, but not enough to prevent this lack of maritime safety from being eradicated.
I am convinced, as are the Members of the European Parliament, that we must strengthen the texts proposed by the Commission, especially regarding black boxes and banning ships.
We must move forward towards consensus upon maximum maritime regulation and safety.
There is common ground and we must seek the consensus to achieve it.
If you agree, Parliament, the Commission and the Council must work, by consensus, between now and the Council of Ministers on 20 and 21 December.
I hope that this work can result in common positions being established as early as 20 and 21 December.
If we work from now until the Council of Ministers on 20 and 21 December, we will succeed in establishing common positions, obtained by qualified majority voting.
But the most important thing is the unshakeable will which must motivate us collectively to change the current rules of the game of maritime transport in order to establish maritime safety.
We cannot allow operators to do just what they like with ships, especially when they have been repaired or banned in such and such a place.
We must not find them back on our seas and on our oceans.
Finally, Madam President, a number of you have spoken about this, but we do not as yet have all the elements of the inquiry that I set up in the wake of the loss of the Ievoli Sun.
It is important that everybody knows what happened, as the human question, which was brought up by a number of you, is also very important.
These are Amendments Nos 1, 3, 6, 7 and 8.
So this is not a matter of principle but a matter of the formal place for this specific proposal.
The third element of Amendment No 3 is a proposal to ban all ships that have flown for three years the flag of a state included in the blacklist published by the Paris Memorandum of Understanding.
In brief, the Commission can only partially accept Amendment No 3.
Amendments Nos 1, 6, 7 and 8 also relate to the refusal of access.
The Commission can accept Amendment Nos 6, 7 and 8, but can only partially accept Amendment No 1.
The deletion of the age criterion is acceptable but not the extension of banning the territorial waters of Member States.
As regards the other amendments, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 4, 5, 21, 22, 23 and 24 subject to some redrafting.
More specifically, Amendments Nos 9 to 17 and 25 introduce new recitals most of which are not linked in any way to the text of the directive.
Amendment No 18 introduces port state control in relation to the seafarers' rest period, however the enforcement of the provisions in respect of seafarers' hours of work is already fully covered by existing Directive 99/95.
Amendment No 20 is irrelevant to port state control as it concerns competition between ports of the Atlantic and North Sea and not maritime safety.
Amendment No 26 reflects the amendments of banding proposed by the rapporteur in Amendment No 3 but extends the scope of the measure to the exclusive economic zone of Member States and in this light it is contrary to the law of the sea.
Amendment No 12 of the report says exactly the same, but it is more of a political commitment than a legal text.
The objectives of Parliament and the Commission are the same.
Member States must satisfy themselves that the classification society they have chosen to work on their behalf, fulfils the tasks to their full satisfaction.
Here I have in mind Amendments Nos 5, 16 and the additions 3a and 3b to Amendment No 8: 3a because we feel this is adequately covered in Article 9 and 10 and 3b because this is covered in the Directive on port state control.
Further, Amendment No 1 and part of Amendment No 18 relating to point "K" are not acceptable on legal grounds.
Amendment No 1 because only the Community is a legal person and not the Union and 18 "K" as it may contravene horizontal commitments made in the general agreement on trade in services.
Amendment No 11 and a part of Amendment No 18 relating to point "H" which deal with the issue of setting clear performance targets and indicators for classification societies are rather ambiguous.
They seem to suggest limitations which are unacceptable and should be rejected.
The aim of our proposal is to allow for a tightening of supervision of classification societies and the possibility to suspend or withdraw recognition in situations where the performance of a classification society is not up to standard.
In this respect, the Commission cannot accept any limitation or involvement of classification societies in the judgment over themselves.
That leaves Amendment No 10 dealing with the important issue of liability limits.
It is a curious coincidence that Parliament is considering the final stage of the adoption of the European Parliament and Council decision on accidental or deliberate marine pollution, at the same time as the first set of measures proposed by the Commission following the Erika disaster.
In order to be better prepared against maritime disasters, this decision has established a solid framework for cooperation at Community level.
It creates the conditions that will allow the sharing of experience gathered by Member States to better protect our marine environment against the risk of accidental or deliberate pollution.
The conciliation process was demanding, but a well-balanced compromise has been found and the amendments of Parliament and Council have produced a better decision.
The scope and content of the decision are now clearer, in particular concerning operational discharges and munitions as well as regarding the link with international conventions or in relation to the polluter-pays principle.
Mr Poos, would you like to add something to the debate?
That is why I would like to reiterate my proposal that the Commission' s position on the amendments is sent to all the Members of Parliament in writing before we cast our vote.
Instead of supplying a written, priority reply in three weeks, they took 16 weeks to send this one.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a few moments.
the report on ship inspection organisations and the report on port controls, there are conflicting views, with Parliament taking a stricter line on most issues.
We shall wait for the common position of the Council of Transport Ministers in December, assuming that a common position is issued in December, and we promise that, as soon as we receive it, it will be our number one priority - our first job will be to wrap up the common position and the other two reports as quickly as possible, hopefully by the spring.
Thank you, Mr Hatzidakis.
Motion for a resolution on the preparation of the Nice European Council Madam President, please allow me briefly to explain our reasons for withdrawing the resolution.
I note with satisfaction that this acknowledges the high quality of the end-result arrived at on 21 November by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of a transparent and balanced compromise between the various positions.
Thank you, Mr Napolitano.
McKenna report (A5-0336/2000) Madam President, I have voted for the McKenna report, which, together with the Conciliation Committee, marks the conclusion of the Community framework for intervening in the matter of marine pollution.
I have talked to retired seamen, who tell me that they are all in favour of this programme, especially because it is a European programme aimed at keeping the seas clean.
Watts report (A5-0343/2000) Madam President, as the representative of the Pensioners' Party I voted against the Watts report.
I voted against in protest at the fact that the European Union is still not managing to intervene in this matter as it should.
In fact, those concerned with enforcing shipboard living and working conditions, as the title of this report states, are unable to lay down that seamen who go to sea are, throughout Europe, entitled to receive their pensions and end their working lives earlier than other people.
Many seamen are grandfathers and do not see their grandchildren because they are always at sea; fathers do not see their own children.
Regional decisions on safety at sea seriously undermine the role of the International Maritime Organisation (ÉÌÏ) and the economic war being waged exerts a constant downward pressure on safety regulations, which are sacrificed to profit.
The fact is that, on three accounts, Mark Watts has managed to reinforce the measure envisaged by the Commission: Not only must ships which have been detained more than twice in the course of the preceding 24 months in a port of a Member State be barred from sailing but, in the opinion our Parliament, this should apply irrespective of the age of the vessel.
I therefore welcome the fact that the rapporteurs Watts, Vachetta and Piétrasanta have endeavoured to close the gaps still present in the Commission proposal.
The European Commission proposes to introduce a certain uniformity of inspection procedures and sets out the conditions under which access to the ports of the Member States of the European Union can be refused: these are the minimum conditions for a common policy on maritime safety.
I would point out that the European Union has some 270 inspectors charged with state port control.
The rapporteur has put forward a number of proposals enhancing the binding nature and effectiveness of these inspections.
I fully support the ban on navigation for ships which have been detained twice in the course of the preceding 2 years, irrespective of the age of the ship.
To do so, we must be sure that the measures we are proposing today are implemented by all the Member States of the European Union.
The responsibility for putting these measures in place rests therefore with the Member States.
Without additional inspectors and without extra financial resources, the controls proposed in the ports will remain a fiction.
We therefore call on the Member States to make a real commitment to maritime safety.
Introducing double-hull ships may help improve safety and protect the environment, but it is not a panacea, nor is it a guarantee, on its own, of seaworthiness.
For these reasons, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report. - (NL) It would be better if there were no single-hull tankers any longer, but such ships were still being built up until 1996.
We must not allow single-hull tankers to carry on sailing in our waters when they are no longer present elsewhere after 2005, 2010 or 2015.
In particular, in recent years there has been a dramatic increase in tanker and fast passenger ship traffic in the Baltic Sea off Estonia and Russia.
In this context, making the construction of double-hull vessels, especially those used to transport toxic and/or dangerous goods, more widespread as quickly as possible is a useful measure.
Europe must not be out of step with regulations in the United States which, thanks to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, aim to phase out single-hull vessels between 2000 and 2015.
In short, what is being proposed is to eliminate the lack of maritime safety without attacking its causes.
The loss of the Erika, which occurred in December 1999, put the issue of maritime safety on the Community' s political agenda and it was due to pressure from the European Parliament that the European Commission proposed the texts we voted on today, almost a year after the accident.
The mandatory double hull for oil tankers and the progressive phasing out of the oldest ships are measures which go in the right direction and are a practical response to the legitimate concerns of our citizens.
The fact is that the unilateral decision taken by the United States to ban single-hull oil tankers from calling at American ports after 2015 poses a real threat to maritime traffic passing through EU waters, where these ships are likely to ply their trade.
It is therefore crucial that the timetable for eliminating these ships from our seas must be in line with the American timetable.
This decision is important but it does not go far enough.
Promoting more stringent regulations at an international level must continue to be the fundamental objective of our maritime safety policy.
In the case of the Erika, the local fishing and aquaculture industries suffered a bitter blow and it is important not just to look at the harmful effects that are apparent in the immediate aftermath, but also to look ahead at the long-term detrimental effects of oil pollution.
Let us ensure that adequate measures are instigated throughout Europe and that lessons learned lead to decisive political action. - (SV) The package of legislative proposals concerning safety at sea is welcome and necessary.
In the town of Primorski, not far from Viborg, the building of a major oil port for the export of Russian oil has already commenced and a further port is planned in the same area.
Ortuondo Larrea report (A5-0342/2000) Madam President, I have already mentioned that I have been to sea in the past.
I believe we should try to get European inspectors to go on board European ships, because this habit of governments and the Council of refusing inspections must come to an end, especially in this activity of cleaning up the sea and our coastlines. . (FR) We have one maritime disaster after another, all following the same pattern.
After the wrecks of the Erika and the Ievoli Sun, which recently affected the shorelines of France, it is time that the European Union reacted and took firm control of the classification societies which authorise coffin ships to sail.
First of all, recognition of classification societies is devolved to Member States without any prior control or harmonisation at European level.
What is more, the training of the inspectors of these societies differs from country to country.
In addition, the amount of the mentioned compensation must be revised upwards to take better account of the material, economic, but also social and environmental damage inflicted.
The shipowners that register voluntarily as customers can, if desired, transfer to another bureau whose requirements are less strict.
I voted in favour of this report, which proposes the introduction of a certain uniformity amongst Member States in terms of quality and the expert capabilities of classification societies, whose recognition will henceforth be the preserve of the shared responsibility of the Member Sates and the European Commission.
The arraignment of the classification societies in the wake of the loss of the Erika in December 1999 recalls their vital role in evaluating and preventing the risks associated with the condition of ships.
The navigable condition of a ship is the responsibility of the state whose flag the ship flies.
From this perspective, these measures must be implemented without delay in the candidate countries, whose fleets must conform to the standards and safety criteria of the European Union.
Finally, our common policy on maritime safety must be an international role model and the obligations we place on our ships must be extended to third-country fleets.
Preparation for the Nice European Council Madam President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group did not endorse the European Parliament resolution on the preparation for the 2000 Nice European Council, since it is inspired totally by the desire to strengthen supranational institutions by applying uniform rules to all Member States.
If the Nice Council did not reach an agreement on this basis, it would not in our view be a failure, as the federalists claimed yesterday in their attacks on the French Presidency and Mr Védrine.
As far as the current Nice agenda is concerned, we believe that the Charter of Fundamental Rights should remain a simple declaration, that the Commission should be composed of one Commissioner for each Member State, that the weighting of votes in the Council should respect the parity of the large States, that majority voting should not be extended to the most important issues, such as immigration, international negotiations on services, taxation and social security and, finally, that specific acts of cooperation should be accepted very liberally, including outside the single institutional framework.
Madam President, whether the European institutions are modified at the Nice European Council or whether rivalries between national ruling circles thwart all attempts at institutional reform, the European Union will continue to be exclusively concerned with the interests of the dominant economic class, with large industrial and financial groups, with their business and their profits.
Notwithstanding a few phrases, as pompous as they are empty, on democracy and on the interests of the people, the debate which is under way within these institutions bears no relation whatsoever to the interests of the working classes and the majority of the population.
It is of little consequence to us whether the Charter of Fundamental Rights is incorporated into the Treaty on European Union or not, because, in any case, this Charter, allegedly a Charter of Fundamental Rights, not only refuses to include the elementary rights of workers, it actually clears the way for retrograde social measures.
As a result, while abstaining on the details, we have voted against the whole. - (SV) We are voting in favour of the resolution, but we wish to comment on the following points: We take a positive position as regards increasing the use of qualified majority voting in the Council of Ministers.
The increasingly open struggle for power between many Member States is clouding the view in terms of possible compromises.
The very first thing that is needed if we are to have a European Union in which the various nationalities can live peacefully together, is for the governments to seek a sustainable balance, in mutual respect and empathy.
The most important task in Nice is to ensure that the EU has effective institutions.
As a prerequisite, the solution should involve striking a balance between small and large countries, not only where the weighting of votes in the Council of Ministers is concerned, but also when it comes to the composition of the European Parliament and the Commission.
Many Members of the European Parliament have ambitions to see the Treaties made into a constitution, with the Charter of Fundamental Rights included and qualified majority voting used in all areas.
It now remains to make a success of the Nice Summit and, as regards institutional reform, to persuade each of you to make the final concessions needed to achieve 'a good agreement' and a good Treaty.
It is also important, of course, that we succeed in providing a reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Treaty itself so as to give it greater legal force.
In the 1999 election, the participation rate would have been below 40 per cent on average had some Member States not had compulsory voting and had national elections not taken place at the same time as this election.
In the social sphere, the proposals are too timid and do not even effectively flesh out the commitments adopted at the Lisbon Summit, particularly as regards the need for strengthening economic and social cohesion.
The reform of the European Union Treaties must take account of the needs and interests of smaller Member States.
As far as the general extension of qualified majority voting is concerned, I do not believe that this is a helpful proposal as it would pre-empt the right of Member States to take a decision at the appropriate time on whether a policy should be communitised.
Neither am I in favour of an automatic linking between QMV and codecision and once again believe that any decision to extend the powers of codecision should also be made on a case-by-case basis.
I can assure you that the current negotiations are being followed in my country, as I am sure they are in all of your countries.
In this sense, no decision about the development of the EU should be taken which risks alienating the citizens of Europe.
By amending Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend the qualified majority voting currently in force in the Council in trade matters to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health and education.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights will not even be a new, short-lived label, but instead one more liberal standard threatening to be raised over Europe.
Thus Parliament waives its right to influence, shuts its mouth and remains silent for the sake of party, State and government loyalties, forgetting its obligations to the people. 2 - Despite everything, it ensures an advantage - not as tiny as it might seem - for the less populous States, which can always take advantage of Parliament' s silence at the choices of those States that seek to strengthen their institutional power in all the Community bodies.
From this standpoint, the large States are blocked by the rest and cannot drag Parliament into supporting their views, using it against us in the future architecture of the institutions. 3 - It demonstrates that the united efforts of the small countries' delegations have succeeded in drawing a political trump card from the others in next week' s debates in Nice.
Compare them to the vivacity, energy and pertinence of the debates in national parliaments: the members of parliament in the Palais Bourbon, Westminster, the Cortes are able to compare ideas because they are expressed within the same cultural framework and in the same language.
I also voted against a text which calls for the incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the eventual Treaty of Nice.
It is impossible to claim, as some do, that this text is inoffensive.
The explicit affirmation of the principle of the double legitimacy of the European Union, that of the peoples and that of the Member States, is, in this respect, essential.
It will make it possible for negotiators from the least populous Member States to defend, in Nice, the principle of adequate representation in all the institutions, including the European Parliament.
It is becoming ever more apparent that opening the debate on proportionality (votes in the Council and seats in the European Parliament), one might go so far as to say on the balance of power between the Member States, has opened a Pandora' s box which will be very difficult to close in Nice.
I am against the development of a common defence policy and the establishment of a council of defence ministers.
Ironically, and just for the record, I should mention Article J2, the third paragraph of Title 5 of the Maastricht Treaty, which states: "Member States shall ensure that their national policies conform on the common positions" .
It has to be said that, this time, the Europeans have found an arbiter in Washington and that, thanks to the rearguard of American generals, Europe has finally found a certain unity.
The United States army moved into Vietnam, the Dominican Republic and Grenada, whilst France and England tried to gain control of the Suez Canal, but countries did not take action as part of NATO outside their own territory.
In this case, it is the area of the Helsinki Council and common foreign policy, a field in which the rapporteur sets himself three main objectives.
We have no alternative but to reject these objectives, which are as follows: to reduce European action in the world to that of the European Union as sole actor; to establish a European Ministry of Foreign Affairs intended to absorb the functions of national ministries and, finally, to get rid of the structure of the European Union in terms of pillars by widening the Community method, in particular by placing the High Representative under the responsibility of the Commission.
That is why our group once again voted against the absurd proposals to communitise national diplomatic services included in Articles 74 and 75 of the resolution, to turn European Union delegations into actual European embassies, and to establish a European diplomatic academy.
Joining forces is a positive step.' . - (DA) The Liberals' five Members of the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Mrs Lalumière' s report on the common security and defence policy, because we are in favour of strengthening the EU countries' power to act and, therefore, NATO too.
Thirdly, there are a number of points in the report which leave one wishing that the European Parliament had more influence in devising a common European security and defence policy.
Further institutionalisation of security and defence policy in the EU is therefore a development that we cannot support.
Nor, furthermore, is it a task for the European Parliament to define what capacity a European rapid reaction force should possess and whether or not it should, for example, include a capacity for intervention by air and sea.
Parliament' s desire for all Member States to contribute financially to the European rapid reaction force, even if they are not involved in operations, is in our view inappropriate since it could mean, for example, that some countries are involved in a conflict they do not wish to take part in.
We protest against this imperialist military policy all the more given that a declared consensus on the issue holds sway in this Chamber, with acceptance of and open support for this policy on the part of the vast majority of groups, from the extreme right to the Greens and the Socialists.
In this context, once all opposition between the countries of Western Europe and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe has been left behind, the military organisation of NATO will also be left behind - in fact it will then be completely anachronistic - in favour of a European military force wholly independent of the United States, with which Europe must maintain close, friendly, but no longer subordinate relations.
The European military force should be totally European, democratically controlled by parliamentary resolutions, effective and efficient.
If such a military force had existed, through the history and traditions of the peoples that compose it, NATO' s war against Yugoslavia would not have happened.
Mrs Lalumière clearly points out that it is probable that in the future within the EU we will be forced to defend all the boundaries of EU Member States from third countries.
Another point deserving our disapproval is the satisfaction with the framework agreement signed in Farnborough by six countries of the European Union, since this will facilitate the restructuring of the defence industries in Europe and emphasise a space policy covering the civilian and military aspects of the use of space and combining the European Union national and multinational resources the holds in the military field.
We can therefore only vote against this report. .
But this European army will primarily serve to stabilise the immediate periphery of the European Union.
We are radically opposed to this European army as we are to NATO and to our own national army.
The creation of a European military industry (EADS, Dassault, BAE) capable of checkmating the United States would in the first instance result in a dramatic increase in the military budget and a transfer of scientific and technological research to the military sector.
The fear that energy supplies will not be made available for the Member States could never be a valid reason for unilateral intervention. . (SV) I have voted against the report.
The wording in the report is thus too far-reaching and consequently reason enough to vote against the report as a whole. . (SV) I value the attempt to develop a common European security policy, but I am against the development of a common military defence force.
For example, the wording is far too far-reaching in respect of CESDP and NATO, in respect of the use of "threats of the use of force" as a means of applying pressure in conflict prevention activities, which directly contravenes the UN Charter.
I therefore cannot support the report.
Brok report (A5-0340/2000) and Lalumière report (A5-0339/2000) - (DA) We have voted against the Brok and Lalumière reports for a number of reasons.
I back her calls to the Member States to take all necessary steps to amend Article 75 of the Fourth Geneva Protocol to define rape, forced impregnation and sexual slavery as war crimes; I also support her call for the ratification of the Treaty of Rome on the International Criminal Court.
The rapporteur also deserves support for her calls on the Commission and the Member States to take account of gender differences in the organisation of EU-funded refugee camps and in their asylum and immigration policy, by for example, granting asylum to women who have been raped during an armed conflict. . (SV) We would like to express our support for the report in broad terms, but have difficulty accepting the detailed rules that the report contains in certain cases - which is reflected in our voting - since this conflicts with the principle of subsidiarity.
Whilst I fully recognise and support the participation of women in peaceful conflict resolution, I must sadly vote against this rather confused report.
As a result, although we are not voting against this report on account of the few basic rights which it does express, we will not be voting in favour of it either. . (SV) We are voting against this report that deals with so-called domestic help.
However, I am not very comfortable with some of the wording in it.
It is actually incredible that, in the twenty-first century, we should still be recommending that Member States guarantee the right of domestic staff to social security cover and adequate pensions.
The demand that domestic services be made tax-deductible to reduce the difference in cost between employing undeclared and declared workers is also a step in the right direction.
However, the high taxation rate both in Sweden and in other EU countries prevents supply and demand from intersecting in the non-shadow economy.
More or less all domestic work that is carried out against payment is currently carried out in the black economy.
She wants this type of work to be recognised as an occupation in its own right and is calling for European rules to be established on the rights of these workers - at present the situation varies from country to country.
This especially applies to work performed by poor women in the households of the rich.
The employee has little or no protection and in many cases is largely dependent on the discretion of the employer.
Although my group considers the report to be too limited and the conclusions too modest, they will help us to start moving in the right direction. . (SV) We take a positive attitude to domestic services being incorporated into the labour market, but have difficulty in accepting the detailed rules at EU level that the report contains in certain cases and that conflict with the principle of subsidiarity.
Guy-Quint report (A5-0327/2000) Madam President, I shall not waste your time explaining why I voted for the Guy-Quint report, but I really must say that for the elderly and pensioners it is very important to know how European Union funds are spent, how in concrete terms they are used by the administrative offices of the Commission.
This resignation, imposed by the elected representatives of the nations of Europe, revealed the pressing need for far-reaching reform of working methods within the various Directorates-General of the Commission, and of decision-making procedures and structures, in order to improve the utilisation of the available resources in the management of Community resources and policies.
The French delegation will naturally oppose the introduction of the codecision procedure in amending the Financial Regulation.
I will cite but one: the early retirement measure concerning some 600 staff, which is 3% of the total staff employed.
These discriminatory practices are unacceptable.
The fact is that unemployment exists in all our countries and the Commission would be well advised to take advantage of future procedures for early retirement and for the recruitment of hundreds of new civil servants to start putting its house in order.
Pomés Ruiz report (A5-0329/2000) Madam President, I voted in favour of the Pomés Ruiz report.
This resignation revealed the need for an in-depth reform of the structures, procedures and working methods within the Commission services in order to ensure optimum use of resources in the management of Community policies.
The proposals contained in the White Paper, which are to a large extent drawn from the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts, should make it possible for the Commission to equip itself with the optimum organisational structure and operating methods so as to fulfil to the best of its ability the tasks assigned to it by the Treaties, without, however, encouraging it to exceed the limits of its prerogatives as defined in the Treaty, which has all too often been the case in the past.
It is therefore necessary to ensure that these commitments are respected much more closely than they have been in the past.
As far as human resources are concerned, the quality of employees and greater transparency in staffing policy in general must become the strong points of the new administrative reform.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group welcomes in principle the response represented by the Commission White Paper to the appeal made by the European Parliament inviting it to carry out far-reaching reform of its human resources policy.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group, however, forcefully recalls that, as regards staff recruitment, the Commission reform must take account of the diversity of opinions and beliefs which are expressed in our countries regarding Europe, its past and its future.
The same should be done for the Commission' s staff and eventually for all citizens in the European Union.
The Commission should execute: it should be the executive power of the European Union; Parliament should be the legislative power.
Concerning enhanced cooperation, they support the initiative as it is compatible with the view that greater flexibility be introduced into the operation of the EU.
Conservatives also support the statement in Paragraph 7 of the report that democratic control be ensured and that the three pillar system be enabled to work.
