I think that this invitation should never have taken place. (ES) Mr President, I would like to talk to you all about El Musel, the major port of my region, Asturias.
It is vitally important for my country that the European Commission approves and the European Parliament supports the extension being sought for compensation until 2013 for the early closure of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant's third and fourth blocks.
The constant sniping from some of our EU neighbours has been based on prejudice rather than objective fact and does little for EU solidarity at a time when Europe is going through enormous financial and economic challenges. (HU) The internationally-renowned Roşia Montană Gold Corporation, a Canadian-Romanian joint venture, is planning to develop Europe's largest open-pit gold mine in the Transylvanian town of Verespatak (Roşia Montană).
The built heritage of Verespatak (Roşia Montană) has also been destroyed and its population impoverished.
I ask the European Parliament to intervene in order to save Verespatak and protect its natural environment.
In Washington ten years ago, on 23 and 24 April 1999, the leaders of the ΝΑΤΟ member states signed a 50th anniversary declaration approving its new doctrine.
At the European Council in March, Hungary and Austria obtained a huge majority to maintain this moratorium, despite the Commission decision.
Following the company's insolvency application, they are waiting until 30 March for a solution.
Thank you so much, and I promise to be on my best behaviour. - Mr President, I am rising on the issue of breaches of environmental law in Ireland, specifically relating to water quality.
Similarly, the actions of the Romanian authorities put us in mind of the reflexes of the past when, against the recommendation of the Romanian authorities, the President of the Hungarian Republic travelled to take part in the celebrations of 15 March with the 1.5 million-strong Hungarian community in Romania but was able to do so only as a private person, by car.
This is happening in 2009 in two neighbouring EU Member States. - (HU) Last week's EU Summit confirmed the basic principles which the European Parliament has also enunciated, namely that the European Union does not tolerate protectionism and does not allow the dismantling of the achievements of the common market.
A decision in principle was taken on this at the summit, which represents a very important step forward.
The fact that support to the balance of payments of Member States outside the euro area has been doubled from EUR 25 billion to EUR 50 billion is a very important expression of EU solidarity.
In Romania at the Arcelor Mittal sites in Galaţi and Hunedoara, several thousand employees will be made technically unemployed in rotation, receiving just 75% of their salary or will just be made redundant.
Four Slovenian patriots, Bidovec, Marušič, Miloš and Valenčič, were sentenced to death by a special fascist tribunal in 1930, during the First Trieste Trial.
I will familiarise you with a small part of this, which took place over four days in April 1876, through the words written at the time by an American journalist by the name of MacGahan: 'It is all the same to me whether this information is impartial or not, once the terrible figure has been acknowledged of 15 000 people killed in four days.
We MEPs from Attack want acknowledgement and an apology before any kind of discussion at all is initiated about Turkey's membership of the European Union. (EL) Mr President, in addition to being an agricultural policy and an economic policy, the common agricultural policy, as revised in the years 2003 to 2008, is now very much a social policy and, in my opinion, rightly so.
On the other side of the border, the Hungarian Government issued a 'Crisis management and growth strategy', according to which, on the grounds of crisis management, Hungary is now seeking to expand by a new 440 megawatt lignite-based block the largest emitter of carbon dioxide, the Mátra power plant, which emits more than 6 million tonnes of pollution per year.
I hope the European Union will give neither political nor material support to this. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while in East Jerusalem thousands of Palestinian homes continue to be demolished, even the Palestinian culture is a target of Israeli policy.
The Palestinian Authority has chosen, together with the Arab nations, to make East Jerusalem - not Jerusalem as a whole - capital of Arab culture for 2009.
Let us move to make this event happen. (SL) At the weekend, Slovenia and, in particular, the region of Lower Carniola, was alarmed by Renault's decision to transfer its Clio production from Novo Mesto to France.
Otherwise, we will be distancing ourselves from compliance with the four basic freedoms which form the core of the European Single Market. (DE) Mr President, at the beginning of March, political prisoners Mikhail Khodorkowski and Platon Lebedev were transferred from Chita, in Siberia, to Moscow, in order to once again face untenable accusations.
The first public hearing is due to take place on 31 March.
Rather than administering justice, the judicial system continues to serve the purpose of eliminating opponents of the regime, and the wool is being pulled over the eyes of the EU. (DE) Mr President, I would like to address a critical remark to the Commission with regard to the decision to ban the classic light bulb, which was submitted in writing last week.
The European Union's energy independence and Member States' solidarity in this matter are more necessary than ever.
So I would like to bring this problem to your attention, and I hope we will find, together with the European Commission, a convenient way to settle this problem. (RO) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this will be a difficult year for Europe.
The European Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages must be applied effectively in Timoc Valley in the counties of Craina, Morava, Pojarevaţ and Timoc in eastern Serbia.
We are in 2009 and I believe that the time has come for the traditional Romanian ethnic community in Timoc Valley to enjoy the right to proportional representation, as well as to churches and schools in their Romanian mother tongue.
