Mid-term review of industrial policy (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Jordan Cizelj, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the mid-term review of industrial policy - A contribution to the EU's Growth and Jobs Strategy.
It was then that the Commission also prepared an integrated approach in the sphere of the industrial policy.
Sustainable industrial development therefore requires coordination, consistency and conformity.
The legislative framework must follow this.
Like me, the rapporteur sees the main functions of industrial policy in the creation of the right conditions for businesses, making the European Union a sustainably attractive location for industries and strengthening our industrial base so that we shall also have sufficient good and secure manufacturing jobs in future.
I shall present you with an action plan on standardisation and examine ways in which industry can obtain higher-quality and more competitive services.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mrs Jordan Cizelj on an excellent and very comprehensive report.
Thirdly, we must combat monopolies on our market.
Nonetheless, we must simultaneously protect our market against dumping from outside the European Union.
This is a sine qua non for the development of industry.
In addition, far-reaching standardisation and policy coordination at Union level should be introduced, linked to the policies of the Member States.
It is our intention to continue to be leaders in this area, but in the interests of our industry we must proceed cautiously.
I submitted four amendments that we can find at items 18 and 27 of the report.
At Item 18 of Mrs.
Member States can also use the regional development funds for the creation of industrial and technological parks in rural areas close to large urban agglomerations.
At item 27 of the report, the European Parliament calls attention to the need to further invest in education, professional training and research.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, let me begin by expressing my thanks to Romana Jordan Cizelj whose report truly touched on all aspects of a modern industrial policy and stressed the particular importance of creating the right basic conditions.
For this reason, I wish to congratulate the Commission first of all for having designated 2009 as the Year of Creativity and Innovation.
The question is whether these three Ts are present in sufficient abundance here in Europe.
The large European groups are relocating and outsourcing to countries that operate dumping in terms of wages, welfare, health, taxes and the environment, and meanwhile the EU refuses to enact any industrial policy.
This report by Mrs Jordan Cizelj does put the emphasis in the right place.
Not only is Poland affected, but also for example Malta, along with other Member States of the European Union.
I therefore welcome the Commission's new sectoral initiatives in electrical engineering and the food industry, the problems of which are most acute nowadays. (PL) Mr President, I should like to draw attention to two issues in this debate.
Firstly, as a result of the financial crisis and subsequent economic crisis in the United States, the rates of economic growth and employment within the European Union in both 2008 and 2009 will be lower than previously forecast.
We urgently need to look at the present and place industries and their social impact at the centre of the decisions that must be made in terms of macroeconomic, financial and commercial policies at both Community and national level. (PL) Mr President, within the framework of the new Lisbon cycle, the emphasis should be on industrial policy, because a flourishing industry is very important in terms of making full use of the European Union's economic potential.
It is therefore necessary to support measures to improve the quality of human capital through all types of training, and to fund investment in the development of individuals. (RO) I would like to call attention to the insufficiency of European funds to support the ambitious objectives of the European Union regarding climate change.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in these last two minutes, I should like to try and outline how I expect things to develop in the period that lies ahead.
And I believe that with goodwill and cooperation we shall succeed in transferring this too from a European level to a national level and create an even stronger link between the industrial policy of the European Union and that of Member States.
I see it as a policy that we create for the good of European citizens, which, of course, we can accomplish by creating favourable development conditions for undertakings, for investment, innovation, and for the creation of more new jobs.
The urgent adoption of a comprehensive Small Business Act will contribute greatly to the development of the SME sectors in all Member States, thus also contributing to the reinforcement of the leading role of Europe in sustainable and technology-oriented industrial production.
