I want to stress two points.
On the contrary, I have stated time and again in this House that enlargement is an historic necessity.
Thank you, Mr Berthu.
I think it would be very welcome if you, as President of the European Parliament, were to approach the Turkish Government, in whatever way you consider appropriate, and ask for this man of honour to be freed.
The "Echelon" system The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the existence of an artificial intelligence system allowing the United States of America to intercept and monitor all telephone and electronic communications within the European Union, a system called 'Echelon' .
The European Union must respect the fundamental rights which are guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and which result from the common constitutional traditions of the Member States on general principles of Community law.
This is why the Council presidency wants to firmly state its position on the possible existence of a system for intercepting telecommunications in the European Union, beyond the bounds of any legal framework.
In 1999, the Council submitted an initiative on the lawful interception of telecommunications with regard to new technologies for assessment.
In its meeting on 28 May 1998, the Council adopted conclusions on encryption and law enforcement to guarantee the integrity and confidentiality of digital communications which present considerable advantages for electronic commerce and the private lives of individuals and which can also help to prevent fraud and other crimes.
In the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, particular attention should be paid to the draft convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council, in its meeting on 27 March, examined the most important remaining questions, including those on the interception of telecommunications.
Therefore, any supervision of data protection is carried out in the Member State of origin with full respect for the Council of Europe Convention of January 1981 and the Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe of September 1987.
So it is the responsibility of each Member State to correct, delete or amend data sent to Europol where it becomes apparent that this data is incorrect or infringes the rules established in this respect.
The Member States and the Commission are examining this issue in order to determine to what extent data protection should be provided in a horizontal perspective for the whole of the Third Pillar.
This, briefly, is the Council' s position on the work in progress or already concluded in the area of the lawful interception of telecommunications.
The presidency wishes to stress that it is ready to closely monitor Parliament' s work in this area as it considers that there is every reason not to compromise when principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and the fundamental freedoms of individuals are at stake.
Respect for human rights and the rule of law constitute the foundations of the European Union.
National security questions belong to the exclusive competence of the Member States.
Electronic communications play an increasingly important role in everyday life of European citizens.
A key tool to secure the confidentiality of electronic communications is encryption or cryptography.
When the European Parliament considered the issue of interception of telecommunications in 1998, its resolution underlined the importance of encryption.
The European research efforts and relatively open access to markets have created conditions that have enabled European enterprises to develop a world-class expertise and high-quality encryption products.
It is worth noting that the United States government has recently taken steps to relax its export controls regime for encryption products.
For external trade, the Wassenaar arrangement imposes export controls on strong encryption products.
The Commission recognises the need to balance availability of encryption products with concerns of public security and the fight against crime.
The Commission considers that enhancing the security of communications over the Internet by using encryption is a priority.
The Data Protection Directive of 24 October 1995 requires Member States to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and in particular their right to privacy with respect to the processing of personal data.
The data protection Directive is complemented by the Directive for data protection and privacy in the telecommunications sector.
This wording of the directive reflects the wording of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
As regards the general data protection directive, the Commission has launched infringement procedures against six Member States.
Further, the letter states that the European Commission of Human Rights has held that the system set out under British law is in conformity with the European Convention on Human Rights.
The UK legislation also foresees a special Parliamentary oversight committee.
The Commission has also sought clarification from the United States government.
Madam President, first of all, I am delighted that the Council and the Commission have delivered a clear opinion today regarding the Echelon problem.
In addition to frank words with our American and British friends, we need a European encryption system, independent of the United States, with which to protect our data.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a difficult situation regarding the decision which we now have to make after hearing the Council and the Commission.
Because if that was to be the case - and I agree with the Commissioner here - then of course this would be in flagrant contravention of the excellent alliance and trade relations that Europe has with America.
Nevertheless, the ELDR Group believes that this matter must be taken seriously.
Because if it is true, then citizens' rights may be violated too.
In any case, the ELDR Group wants to extend existing European legislation governing data protection to the sphere of judicial and police cooperation.
We also feel that the national parliaments in the European Union, as well as the United States Congress in Washington, should become involved in this matter.
We have since discovered that this system does exist, but we do not know exactly how it works.
Especially when we know that certain Member States are probably collaborating in order to by-pass them.
Otherwise the network should be closed down, and we are in favour of the parliamentary committee of inquiry called for by several groups in the European Parliament, including the Union for a Europe of Nations Group.
Madam President, the new economy has equipped us with a worldwide communication network.
The right of individuals to privacy must not be contravened at the drop of a hat.
Madam President, so the country of the Statue of Liberty, Jefferson, Lincoln, and human rights is listening in on all world communications by cable, satellite, telephone, fax, e-mail or mobile phone!
I have several questions to put to the Council and the Commission and if they do not wish to answer them today, then I would ask them to do so in writing in the very near future.
It emerged during the hearing that two companies have reported missing out on orders on account of industrial espionage.
My third question relates to Article 3.
As a UK Member of this Parliament I understand other Members' concerns.
The Commissioner has spoken of work on cryptography, which was also mentioned in Parliament' s last recommendation.
Therefore, at the next Justice and Home Affairs Council on 29 to 30 May, the Portuguese presidency will ensure that the Council debates this issue so that we can adopt a position.
For that reason we contacted the United States government and asked for clarification and what I said here was their reply to that very issue.
After the granting of this patent, a number of concerns have been raised, both here in Parliament and also by organisations such as Greenpeace, about the true scope of this patent.
The European Patent Office has issued a press statement to that effect.
The motion before you calls on Parliament itself and the other institutions of the European Union formally to oppose this patent within the 9-month period during which an opposition is allowed under the rules governing the granting of European patents.
However, if the European Patent Office follows its usual rules for oppositions then this is unlikely to bring any changes to this patent before December 2000 and perhaps even later than that.
I have therefore written to the European Patent Office in Munich requesting that it should explore every possibility to bring about a speedier resolution of this issue.
The event shows how important it was for the European Parliament, in debating the directive on the patenting of biotechnological inventions, to have made it a cornerstone of the directive that there can be no question of patenting techniques for cloning human beings and for manipulating human genetic material, still less of patenting the human being in all phases of his development.
The European Patent Office has incorporated the European Union' s directive into its own directives.
Then, there was a press statement from Europabio, which was not very helpful in this regard and, following which, I wrote a letter to the chairman of Europabio pointing out that such an ambivalent position on the patent involved was not at all helpful in furthering people' s understanding of biotechnology.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European Patent No EP 69 53 51, granted by the European Parliament and concerning the genetic manipulation of human cells and human embryos has triggered understandable feelings of horror among the public.
In this way, the European Parliament is confronted with a special task requiring the preparation of an annual report on the work of the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies.
Finally, it must be made unequivocally clear once and for all that our Directive on the Legal Protection of Biotechnological Inventions excludes not only the patentability of the human being, of parts of the human genetic make-up and of interference with the genome, but also forbids the cloning of human beings at all phases of their development.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Parliament is right to be concerned, and this is surely an understatement, by the fact that the European Patent Office has granted a patent to the University of Edinburgh.
However, the European Parliament has already clearly formulated its position on this delicate matter.
The outcome is a balanced text that affords science the opportunity to make progress, but in the interests and service of humanity.
A number of items are unequivocally excluded from patenting in this directive, such as the human body, for example, or parts thereof at all stages of development, as per Article 3, and the cloning of human beings, as per Article 9.
It is for these reasons that not only will the ELDR Group endorse the motion, it will also support Amendments Nos 1, 3, 6, 8 and 9, because they clearly reinforce the message conveyed by the directive in question.
This also means, however, that we need to investigate the patenting of parts of the human genetic make-up and of genes themselves, which is also made possible by the directive on patenting.
I would also have expected more from the Commission today in terms of more criticism and also of more questions about the background to the directive on patenting which also virtually legitimises past practice on the part of the Patent Office.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports the joint resolution on the offending decision by the European Patent office.
But the English wording of the patent undermines that explanation because Article 11 explicitly mentions that the term 'animal' includes all animal cells, especially of mammalian species, including human cells.
Each person is unique; there is something sacred in each human being.
The Commission takes the view that had the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions been transposed in good time, this error could have been avoided.
The European Group of Ethics must also investigate if it actually affords human dignity adequate protection.
The Council should give the Commission the mandate to do this.
They have no interest in cloning humans: rather what they are interested in is being able to work on human tissue to help find remedies for, for example, Alzheimer' s Disease and leukaemia and what they are doing breaks no law in the United Kingdom.
As I have said earlier this morning, I wrote a letter on behalf of the Commission to the European Patent Office.
Mr Blokland has said that the directive is unclear and inconsistent and certainly the Commission will be very interested in a substantiated view of that statement.
The last issue I should like to deal with is the matter of the Community patent.
Mr Bolkestein, I am very sorry if you have not been listening very carefully or if the translation was not very precise, but I have not put forward a demand that cloning should be prohibited.
It was the intention of the European People' s Party not to open a new debate but merely to re-confirm what Parliament had already decided recently, for example in the context of the Fifth Framework Programme on Research or in that of the Tannert report on the specific Framework Programme on Research.
There are approximately 120 million elderly people in Europe, most of whom receive a pension, although there are a few, less fortunate people who do not, but these guidelines make no provision whatsoever for a European Union policy for pensioners and the elderly.
Instead, "the social and cultural dimension of Europe" is chosen as the most important point to be taken up in the guidelines for the 2001 budget.
Our group likewise condemns the desire expressed by the alliance of the large Socialist, Christian Democrat and Conservative groups in the European Parliament to use agriculture, the appropriations under heading 1 of the financial perspective, as a source of financing for areas now falling within the remit of European Union 'foreign policy' .
In fact everyone now agrees in acknowledging that the EUR 360 million sought for Kosovo for the year 2000 represents a sum, a godsend for some people, that this region of former Yugoslavia, with ever-growing centrifugal forces at work, is in no position to assimilate.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group is equally opposed, out of concern for consistency, to any annual financing of the EUR 5.5 billion sought for the Balkans by increasing the ceiling on external expenditure by Europe and lowering the ceilings for the agricultural headings, on the deceitful pretext that the appropriations would not be taken from agriculture, but that it would be appropriate to release margins for 2001 and 2002.
It should be remembered here that, in 2003, the mid-term analysis planned at the Berlin Summit in the context of Agenda 2000 will be known.
The civil aviation industry is experiencing annual growth of some 6% and this is expected to double in 10 years!
This has to be accompanied by a progressive reduction in noise ascribable to aircraft.
Stricter rules on aircraft noise must be established at international level, within the ICAO.
The United States' position on the regulation is ambiguous; in fact, although the United States government is in favour of ending the litigation, American manufacturers are totally against the standards set out in the regulation which would penalise them.
In conclusion, the European Union must do everything possible to encourage the development of that regional integration which, in the long term, will maintain privileged links, still to be defined, with the European Union.
In fact, the latter must take action to achieve a cultural, social and human partnership.
The European Union must provide compensation for the crucial difficulties in this sector, notably as regards fruit and vegetables, and wine-growing.
Hernández Mollar report (A5-0057/2000) Mr President, the action plans on asylum and migration, focusing on the problems encountered by the countries of origin and transit of asylum seekers and migrants, seem to us an excellent initiative in principle.
So the action plans aim to draw up a list of problems for each target country, whether they be related to the political institutions, human rights, the economy or the government, and propose an integrated approach to the countries of the Union and to third countries, combining development aid, legal measures or foreign policy actions.
Mr President, I voted against the Hernández Mollar report on asylum seekers and migrants, not because I am opposed to an action plan for receiving and supporting those who are less fortunate than ourselves and who are forced to emigrate and request asylum from countries near or far - for I am strongly in favour of such a measure - but because this report does not place sufficient emphasis on the procedures for distinguishing between genuine and false asylum seekers, for the latter are, sadly, nothing but disruptive elements who damage those who have a genuine, practical need for asylum and assistance, and who must therefore receive it.
I abstained on the final vote on this report on the basis of my speech on Wednesday evening.
I am not in any way against the intentions or sentiments of the report but solely in respect of the action plan on Sri Lanka.
I believe that it is inadequate and that there is far too little attention paid to the need to seek a political solution in Sri Lanka.
And what price the subtle distinctions in the report between 'immigration' and 'asylum proper' , when social reality means that a surreal economic organisation condemns millions of people to torture or death by hunger as surely as in dictators' dungeons?
Europe is drawing up plans and developing measures, 108 to be precise, with unspecified funding of course.
Italy, for example, will lose 17 million people from the workforce between now and 2050, and you are happy to conclude, along with the UN population division, that 159 million non-Europeans will have to be imported between now and 2050.
Klamt report (A5-0052/2000) Mr President, we have naturally supported Mrs Klamt' s report because of our desire and our duty to protect our children and everyone else in an extremely vulnerable position.
The report is also a good text in that respect.
The Klamt report is perhaps not sufficiently ambitious, but at least it has the merit of going in the right direction.
Mr President, I voted for the Klamt report, not only because I am in favour of any measure which contributes to eliminating child sex tourism, but also because I want to provide encouragement for more to be done.
The European Commission has drawn up a report of the measures which have been taken in this field.
In view of the results, it is clear that the European Union and its Member States must increase their efforts to combat sex tourism and the exploitation of children.
The fact is, when people are in a foreign country, in an unfamiliar region, they can act in complete anonymity and convince themselves that child abuse is less reprehensible in a different social and cultural context, and that the moral principles in force in their own country do not apply.
This is why Parliament calls on the Commission to assess the link between child pornography on the Internet and the growth in sex tourism, and to propose practical measures against the phenomenon!
In fact, this comes down to accepting the phenomenon of child sex tourism, on the pretext that the social and cultural context is different in countries where it is not unusual to work as a little slave from the age of five.
Mrs Klamt has presented a good report today.
The dignity of the individual, of the weakest in particular and of all in general, must be our guideline, in this area as in any other. - I wholeheartedly support Ewa Klamt' s report on the fight against child exploitation.
Mr President, I am not calling for a nanny-state approach, but simply that, in a civilised society, we recognise the right of children to their childhood.
Turmes report (A5-0078/2000) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, environmental protection is a prestigious field of politics, and rightly so.
Resolution on the cloning of human beings Mr President, we agreed with many points in the motion for a resolution, for example with the proposal that the European Parliament should submit a complaint to the Patent Office, but also with the criticism of the structures of the European Patent Office.
Our vote against human cloning is primarily intended to express our lack of confidence in the present economic and social organisation, certainly not our rejection of science and its possibilities.
We are not in principle opposed to intervention in the human germline for people who want to have children without risking malformation, any more than we are opposed to cloning with a view to developing human tissues intended for grafting.
This is what the Edinburgh research is about. - (SV) On 8 December 1999, the European Patent Office approved 'by mistake' Patent No EP 69 53 51 concerning the genetic manipulation of human cells and embryos.
The Patent office has acknowledged a 'linguistic' mistake which does not seem to be entirely corroborated by Article 11 of the description of the intervention.
A mistake like that becomes symbolic, a sort of Freudian slip, and it has impelled us today to hold this fundamental debate on cloning, certainly, but above all on whether the living organism should be patented.
Categories of 'forbidden knowledge' must certainly be created but without making the mistake of those who condemned Copernicus, Harvey (the heart is not the repository of the soul, but a large organ), or Jenner (the smallpox vaccine).
