Mr Kohout is here representing the Council.
The European Parliament and the Council have adopted Directive 2004/48/EC, which puts in place a Community framework for the enforcement of intellectual property rights and are currently working on a proposal for a directive on criminal measures, aimed at ensuring enforcement of such rights.
On 25 September 2008, the Council adopted a resolution setting down concrete actions to be taken by the Member States and the Commission in the context of a comprehensive European anti-counterfeiting and anti-piracy plan.
Lastly, on 16 March 2009, the Council adopted a resolution on the EU customs action plan to combat intellectual property rights infringements for the years 2009-2012, following on from the abovementioned Council resolution of 25 September 2008.
The Council appreciates all similar efforts by the European Parliament to the same end. (ES) Thank you very much for your answer, Mr President.
European Union law on the protection of creative works is that of an underdeveloped country and, as a result, our cultural production is falling to the levels seen in underdeveloped countries.
deputising for the author. - I would like to thank the Czech Presidency for the chairing of the committee and their views on this.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, in response to the question I would like to say firstly that we - in the sense of the Czech Government and the Czech Republic - have never been sceptical about climate change.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, in your introduction to my speech today you made an announcement in which you congratulated the Czech Republic over the fact that its Senate today approved the Lisbon Treaty with a clear majority of votes.
I am delighted with today's result in your Senate. (DE) Mr President, I congratulate the Czech Presidency on the decision in the Senate.
The large majority of votes - 54 senators out of the 80 present - cast in favour of the treaty included senators from the Civil Democratic Party (ODS) (the party President Klaus once founded), which shows that there is 'Eurorealism' in the Czech Republic, that there is a very strong feeling of co-responsibility for Europe and for the EU, as well as a will to continue the process of European integration and to take an active part in it.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, the negotiations with Croatia have entered an important and demanding phase.
Since the start of these negotiations, 22 chapters have been opened, of which seven have been provisionally closed.
Full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, including access to documents, remains essential in line with the negotiating framework.
In this context, it is worth recalling that the Council has repeatedly stated that, in accordance with the negotiating framework and the Accession Partnership, efforts towards good neighbourly relations must be continued - in particular work on finding solutions to bilateral issues with neighbouring countries, especially border issues.
Concerning the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, I would like to recall the decision of the European Council of December 2005 to grant it the status of candidate country, taking into account in particular the requirements of the stabilisation and association process and criteria for membership and implementation of the priorities in the Partnership, the substantial progress made in completing the legislative framework related to the Ohrid Framework Agreement, as well as its track record in implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, including its trade-related provisions since 2001.
According to the preliminary assessment of the OSCE/ODIHR election observation mission, elections held on 22 March and 5 April were organised thoroughly and met most international commitments and standards.
The Council is willing to support efforts to meet these challenges, in particular by implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreements and by granting considerable financial support.
On 23 April this year the Council asked the Commission to prepare its opinion on the application so that the Council can then take further decisions.
The Council recalls the European Union's willingness to assist the economic and political development of Kosovo through a clear European perspective, in line with the European perspective of the region.
Second, will you name a date for Macedonia this year?
The proposal for a Council directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation would extend the protection against discrimination based on religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation to areas beyond employment.
On 2 April 2009 the European Parliament voted in favour of the Commission's proposal under the consultation procedure, and discussions on the draft directive are ongoing in the Council.
The important role of public authorities in guaranteeing quality, access and sustainability of social services is mentioned and it is stated that investing in social services, in particular during the present financial and economic crisis, pays and can strengthen the growth potential and the cohesion of economies and societies.
deputising for the author. - (NL) Mr President, I would like to thank the Czech Presidency warmly for answering my question.
As regards the additional question, it must be said that I am not in a position to give a perfectly clear answer at this point in time.
As far as the situation in the European Union is concerned, no such topic is being discussed.
In this framework, the Presidency would like to recall that Member States remain, in the first instance, responsible for designing and implementing the employment policies.
The European Council also supported the idea of rapid action by the European Social Fund in support of employment, especially for the benefit of the most vulnerable groups in the population, such as supporting flexicurity policies and policies easing job transition periods, and giving Member States the opportunity, where necessary, for reprogramming European Social Fund expenditures in order to strengthen their employment strategies.
A revision of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is under way and the European Council of March 2009 called for a swift agreement to be reached.
Finally the Presidency would like to recall that the initiative of the current Presidency, an Employment Summit, will be organised on 7 May in Prague.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, I must say I am wholly sympathetic to what has been said here, and I am convinced that the forthcoming summit, the'employment summit' in Prague, will be another occasion for creating and putting forward initiatives which the June European Council will be able to return to and which will be focused precisely on the topics we have been discussing here, in other words issues relating to the impact of the economic crisis on employment.
Members of the European Parliament are seeking to ensure that patients from EU countries have every opportunity to receive treatment abroad (such as through the reimbursement in advance of expensive health-care services so that they are not only available to the wealthy), while the Council is proposing that such rights be limited and that the Member States themselves decide what health care received by their citizens abroad would qualify for reimbursement.
As the Presidency stated during the plenary debate of 23 April 2009, patients travelling to other Member States should receive full information and high-quality health care.
Discussions are still ongoing in the Council, so it is impossible to predict whether a political agreement can be reached under the current Czech Presidency.
According to the report voted in Parliament's plenary on 24 April 2009, the European Parliament has also recognised the prior authorisation system as a planning and management tool if it is transparent, predictable, non-discriminatory and subject to clear information for patients.
The Council will study all the amendments with care and will consider how to take account of them in its common position in order to reach an agreement in second reading. (LT) Once again thank you for your comprehensive and, I would say, hopeful reply.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, I would like to express my thanks for the additional comment by the honourable Member.
