&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 6 April 2006. &#160;&#160; I would like to inform you that at its meeting of 6 April the Conference of Presidents accepted the request of the Delegation for Relations with Iran to change its name to the Delegation for Relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran.
If we accept this proposal, we are effectively amending one of Parliament’s resolutions, the resolution giving names to the delegations for relations with third countries.
If nobody is opposed, the name of that delegation will be changed as I indicated. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to express my total opposition to this about-turn, which amounts to a pathetic surrender to the demands of the new President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
We cannot but respect the name of this country.
A corrigendum relating to the agenda for today and tomorrow has been distributed; this corrigendum has included the changes that were decided upon in Strasbourg on Thursday 6 April.
It also includes the following amendments which I shall propose to the House with the support of the political groups: Firstly, following the oral question on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, we shall have the Council and Commission statements on the suspension of aid to the Palestinian Authority.
Nevertheless, despite what the corrigendum that I have mentioned says, there will be no resolution at the end of this debate.
With regard to the report by Mr&#160;Mavrommatis on promoting multilingualism and language learning in the European Union, which was scheduled to be the penultimate item on this evening’s agenda, we shall postpone it until tomorrow morning, as the second and last debate to take place before the votes.
With regard to the votes for tomorrow Thursday, the vote on the report by Mr&#160;Gauzès on the service in the Member States of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters is being postponed, with a view to trying to reach an agreement at first reading.
With regard to the resolution on Palestine: who decided what, and when?
I would simply like to be told who decided what, and when. &#160;&#160; As you know, the decisions are taken by the Conference of Presidents or, failing that, the meeting of the secretaries-general of the political groups.
The Presidency’s services tell me that this decision was taken by the meeting of secretaries-general of the political groups yesterday at mid-day. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, please forgive me, but I must be a bit simple-minded.
The secretaries-general of the political groups, for their part, can voice their opinions but, given that they are not elected representatives and are not able to represent a group, they cannot make decisions.
It was my group that asked for an item concerning the suspension of European Union aid to Palestine to be included on the agenda.
We submitted this proposal a long time after the last Conference of Presidents and, as a result, it was technically impossible for the Conference of Presidents to debate it.
I therefore understood our President’s proposal in the following terms: it is now a matter of submitting to plenary the conclusions reached by the secretaries-general of the groups on the basis of our proposal and, if there is any opposition, we shall have to vote.
This House is of course entitled to take the final decision – that goes without saying – but the decision taken in this instance by the Conference of Presidents – whose members are mere mortals, and so not everything we do is right – was a right and proper one, and I would appreciate it if the House were to act in accordance with it. &#160;&#160; Clearly, Mr&#160;President, I do not understand a thing.
Secondly, I will be very clear: if the two main groups are against a resolution being submitted, then there will be no resolution.
I would, however, like a vote to be held in this Chamber in order to decide whether or not there will be a resolution.
You have your arguments, and they are genuine; I, for my part, have other arguments that are just as genuine.
However, I rise to ask you to put an end to this and allow us to get on with our business this afternoon, either by requesting a vote in the House to proceed with the agenda as proposed, or by simply going ahead. &#160;&#160; Having consulted the Presidency’s services, I am told that this item was incorporated, or its incorporation was proposed, after the last Conference of Presidents.
The agenda will therefore include an item relating to a statement by the Council and the Commission on the suspension of aid to the Palestinian Authority, which will not be followed by a vote on a resolution.
For the international community, the Chernobyl accident represented a turning point, raising awareness of the need for rules and common standards to reduce the risk of an accident to a minimum, as well as preparation for immediate reaction in case of a radiological emergency.
The European Atomic Energy Community and the Member States are contracting parties to all these conventions.
At European level, I would recall that the chapter in the Euratom Treaty on health and safety provides both for the protection of the health of workers and of the general public against the dangers arising from radiation.
The Treaty also obliges Member States and operators to supply the Commission with regular information on installations and nuclear material in their possession.
Member States must cooperate in emergency planning and in responding to an emergency.
Thirdly, there is secondary legislation on information in cases of radiological emergency: a Community system is in place for the early exchange of information in the event of a radiological emergency.
All Member States, Switzerland, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey participate in that mechanism.
The staged closure of the remaining reactors in Ignalina, Bohunice and Kozloduy was agreed in the negotiations for accession to the European Union.
It is also worth recalling that the Council in June 2004 set up a working party on nuclear safety, which is due to produce a final report at the end of this year.
Furthermore, the Commission will make every effort in the area of research and development to help to find a sustainable solution to the issue of the radioactive waste.
Once again, I wish to thank Parliament for its support and I thank you very much for your attention. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the accident that occurred exactly twenty years ago in the western part of what was then the Soviet Union was the first European environmental disaster to have an impact on the whole of the continent, and one of our responsibilities today is to ensure that it remains the only one.
I have just been reminded that the explosion in this nuclear power plant occurred, not when it was being used for civilian purposes, but while military experiments were being carried on there.
It still, alas, needs to be said today that the attitude of those who were in positions of responsibility at that time in the Soviet Union towards the people in the affected towns and villages around the stricken reactor was very largely one of contempt.
Over the past twenty years, a great deal has been done in every quarter of the world to help those affected by the disaster and to support people who have to deal with its after-effects.
The innumerable associations and institutions that have done such splendid work in this field deserve our gratitude.
The sufferings of the victims and the dedication shown by many people in the European Union make it quite improper that that anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster should be used for political ends and as the occasion of a debate on the evils of atomic energy as such.
The power station at Chernobyl was shut down in December 2000; the decision to do so was welcomed in this House and by the European Union as a major contribution to improved nuclear safety in Europe and I would remind Commissioner Piebalgs of our consistent record of very good cooperation with the Commission.
Both the collapse of the Iron Curtain and – in particular – the eastward enlargement of the European Union two years ago helped to make the use of atomic power in Europe safer.
Whereas, as recently as 2001, nine nuclear power stations with a total of 27 blocks of similar design to Chernobyl were connected up to the network, the new Member States, in the accession treaties, undertook to decommission them over the years to come.
It is very important that the compromise on the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective be used to help make funds for the decommissioning of these sites available as quickly as possible.
Rather than now leaving to their own devices those accession countries that have to cope with the problems arising from the Chernobyl disaster, we must act in a spirit of solidarity with them, and in so doing we will be doing something for ourselves.
Over the years, a high standard of safety for atomic power plant has been established within the European Union, and it is now time for our neighbours to share in it, while we, at the same time, must further promote research into reactor safety, to which the research framework programme currently being considered by this House can make an important contribution.
This is a policy that we want to pursue and we very much hope that we will be able to guarantee security of energy supply without interfering with sustainable development or the well-being of the environment.
As in all groups in this House – no, sorry, except perhaps for the Greens – there are differences of opinion within my own group.
I believe that there are three fundamental reasons for scepticism about atomic energy.
Firstly, it can be argued that accidents in atomic power stations are rare; indeed they are, but, when they occur, they are so devastating in their effects that one must, considering the minor risk that may be present against the disaster that it equally well may entail, decide that the slight risk is not worth it.
The risk of that is too great.
Ever since my earliest youth, I have campaigned in my own country against nuclear power.
The fact that the experience did not turn me into a Green is, I would say, a happy circumstance for the Greens, but there are many in my political family who think as I do; there are others who do not, and I want to speak out clearly on their behalf too; I have to appreciate their arguments and put them forward too.
Mr President, at 1.23 a.m.
The explosion at the Chernobyl power plant spewed radioactive waste over vast swathes of the former USSR and Western Europe, and rendered an area with a radius of 30 km uninhabitable to humankind.
Official UN figures predicted up to 9&#160;000 cancer-related deaths as a result of that accident.
However, a Greenpeace report released last week estimated 93&#160;000, which could rise to around 200&#160;000 if we include other related illnesses.
The Commissioner will shortly be visiting my constituency, where we are closing nuclear power plants and developing renewable fuels.
We should remember the thousands of people who have died and will die and the hundreds of thousands of people who suffer as a result of the accident at Chernobyl.
The nuclear lobby stated last week in that only 50 people died as a result of Chernobyl.
First of all, we need more dignity.
Secondly, we need absolute transparency – – on the real consequences of the accident.
We therefore have to end the 1959 agreement between the International Atomic Energy Agency and the World Health Organisation as provide in Article 12 of that agreement.
Thirdly, we need absolute transparency on the plans of the nuclear industry.
Today 450 nuclear reactors produce 2.5% of world energy and 6% of European energy demands.
If nuclear energy is the answer to security supply and to climate change, that percentage would need to rise from 2.5 to 30, 40, 50 or 60% of the mix.
Even today, 20 years after the event, we can see the appalling consequences.
This does not just mean that production costs are high but also that there are very high costs for dealing with retired reactors and the waste that is produced.
It is absolutely imperative that we phase out our dependence on oil and fossil fuels.
Caesium has an active cycle of 35 years.
Twenty years have gone by, meaning that cancer will be lodged in the human body for another 15 years.
The fatal radioactive materials will be there for 100&#160;000 years.
Yes, this is a promise, but he did not tell us that Bulgaria is already building another nuclear station a few kilometres away, just 50 kilometres from the second largest city in Greece and less than 1&#160;000 kilometres from Rome as the crow flies.
All of us here – in one of the biggest parliaments in the world – must find the courage and vote and talk and argue against nuclear power.
Because there were 3&#160;500 miscarriages immediately after Chernobyl and we lost a lot of children who could have been in the army today.
We must therefore pay very careful attention to our future, to the future of our children and to the future of the next generations.
I was particularly moved by what Commissioner Piebalgs said in his opening statement about the people who went in immediately after the accident to do the clean-up work, to try to put concrete into the sarcophagus, and to try to protect the rest of the population.
Today when we speak about Chernobyl and the nuclear industry, the two go hand in hand.
Since then, every summer, 14&#160;000 children have been brought from Chernobyl to Ireland for a three-week break in a clean environment, to get fresh air, to live with host families, to know what it is like to live in a proper family environment, and to get medical and dental treatment.
Over that period of time, that voluntary group has raised over EUR&#160;60&#160;million for humanitarian and medical aid for Chernobyl and Belarus.
There are many other small projects like that, which are run by individuals who saw the need.
It is our responsibility to ensure that it cannot happen again. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even 20 years on, our minds still conjure up the horrors of the Chernobyl disaster; once again we see the incandescent gullet of the nuclear plant; once again we see the thousands of human lives snuffed out; once again we see children contaminated with huge doses of radiation.
What is more, we read with alarm about the number of people who, as a result of Chernobyl, still die before their time.
It is also true, however, that Russia, China, India and the United States have given the green light to nuclear energy.
It also disturbs me greatly that in the last four years the price of gas has doubled, and that the EU has become a hostage to the Russian firm Gazprom, which, conscious of its power in the field of raw materials, recently clearly showed what it is capable of doing.
To conclude, I have a little nugget to offer opponents of nuclear energy, namely the latest report from Euronews.
A short time ago, Euronews experts asserted that atomic energy is the best way of reducing global warming. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Mr&#160;Brok, Mr&#160;Moscovici and Mr&#160;Van&#160;Orden, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union (O-0034/2006 B6-0019/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, it was in April last year that this House considered the treaties relating to the accession of Romania and Bulgaria and resolved that it would agree to these treaties being signed, the meaning of which decision is that it is the will of this House that Romania and Bulgaria should become Member States of the European Union, and that the date named in the treaty is 1 January 2007.
Those are the questions that arise.
From this perspective, the role of the European Parliament, that of the rapporteurs, and my own role as rapporteur for Romania could be supervisory roles that I would describe as rational and fair, in the context of which we will fully exercise our right to inspect.
That is why, three weeks prior to the presentation of the Commission report on the state of progress of reforms in Romania and Bulgaria, we have come to an agreement to submit this oral question, and to do so in the spirit that Mr&#160;Brok was outlining just now: far from wishing to give a premature verdict on the two countries’ membership, we simply want to put in practice to implement Parliament’s right to be informed by the Commission of the latest developments in the monitoring process.
It is in this spirit of openness that we are submitting this question, which is focused on points that are the subject of genuine concerns and of in-depth debates, as borne out by the previous progress reports, particularly in the crucial areas of justice and of the fight against corruption.
I believe that, in the context of the support that we are giving to Romania during these months of accelerated reforms, we are establishing two important notions the rate and consistency of the progress made while remaining aware, however, that there is no such thing as a perfect political system and that a significant amount of progress has already been made.
Our concern remains one of knowing whether or not the Commission – and this is indeed the crucial question – has discovered, throughout recent months, exceptional reasons for alarm that should be brought to our attention.
With regard to less radical concerns, the aim of our oral question was to highlight the other safeguard clauses, which are of an altogether different nature and are much less dramatic.
They offer the possibility of continuous and more flexible supervision during the first three years following Romania’s accession to the European Union.
It is important that we get this right, both for the sake of the people of Bulgaria and for our own citizens.
After all, these countries complete the previous round of enlargement, the EU’s fifth round, and are not part of the next.
The Accession Treaty signed by Bulgaria and Romania on 25&#160;April last year, and already ratified by 15 EU Member States, deliberately contains various sorts of what might be called ‘conditionality’.
In terms of justice and home affairs I do not think we should be looking for a harmonised system across the European Union.
The clear-up rate for general crime in Bulgaria bears comparison with that in many current EU Member States.
There is much still to be done and the process of reform will continue for many years.
The Commission should be prepared to give a clear signal to the Council: take the decision in June for accession on 1&#160;January 2007; take the decision in December, in the light of further progress by the Bulgarian authorities and in cooperation with them, on any monitoring and other safeguard measures that may be necessary.
I can assure you that the Commission is following the situation with the greatest attention and is ready to offer advice and support in tackling the impact of the floods once the damage has been assessed, as we did last year in the case of Bulgaria and Romania.
Concerning the first question as to whether the rhythm of reform in Bulgaria and Romania is such that they will be ready for accession by January 2007, the Commission is currently assessing the progress made in both countries and is not yet in a position to confirm the answer to this critical question.
The Commission will then provide an in-depth analysis on 16&#160;May, and we will then be ready to discuss our assessment further with the honourable Members of Parliament.
These are the critical yardsticks, since a fully functioning justice system underpins the functioning of the whole of society and the economy in its entirety.
I ask for the support of the Parliament and the Council for this rigorous and fair position.
Concerning the second question on the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime, both countries have shown determination to undertake necessary reforms in this field.
In Romania we note significant progress, as Romania has continued to pursue the implementation of its legal package of 2005.
I fully agree with Mr Moscovici that the rigorous monetary mechanism and the safeguard clause of postponement have provided very strong encouragement and an incentive, and these have produced very tangible results in the case of Romania.
As regards the fight against organised crime in Bulgaria, there are still very few investigations and prosecutions.
The competent authorities seem in general to have a reactive instead of a proactive attitude.
Finally, on Mr Brok’s question concerning the safeguard clauses and monitoring, safeguard clauses are meant to tackle the possible negative consequences that may persist due to shortcomings in Bulgaria and Romania after accession.
A number of safeguards are already provided in existing Community legislation, for instance in the area of food safety or transport.
In addition, the accession treaty contains three safeguard clauses: a general economic safeguard clause, a specific internal market safeguard clause and a third one which relates to justice and home affairs.
Without going into details of how they can be invoked, by way of example I will take the internal market safeguard, which is specifically designed to deal with cases where a new Member State fails to fulfil commitments made in the accession negotiations.
If such a failure causes or risks causing a serious breach in the functioning of the internal market, the Commission may take appropriate measures to deal with that situation, even before accession, with entry into force upon accession.
Firstly, I would like to say that Romania’s progress towards accession is clear, particularly in areas that are of fundamental importance to this House, such as the reform of the judicial system and the fight against corruption.
Passing on to other matters, my personal view is that, if possible, as has been planned for some time, Romania and Bulgaria should find out in June when they will enter the Union, that is, whether it is to happen on 1 January 2007, as we all want to see.
I therefore believe that the accession timetable should be set as soon as possible, preferably in June rather than in December, as Mr&#160;Van&#160;Orden said earlier.
Furthermore, if it is confirmed in June that accession can take place in 2007, that should not mean that the Romanian or Bulgarian authorities would then abandon their adaptation and reform efforts.
Furthermore, the accession treaty provides for specific monitoring, since there are safeguard clauses which can be activated during the first three years.
The coming reports will tell us what you have to say about this monitoring that may be necessary following accession.
And we will of course study your report in May with great interest, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I listened very carefully to the Commissioner as he answered our questions, and I have to say that those answers were extraordinarily illuminating.
Fair enough: we will wait and see what you will have to say in May, but what I would like to tell you is what the Socialist Group in this Parliament wants right now; we want Romania and Bulgaria to be able to become full Member States of the European Union on 1 January 2007.
I might add that another reason why we would like to see them do that is that we can see that this process of transformation, while it demands of them enormous efforts, is successful in that it makes them more secure, more stable and more democratic.
The text of this oral question has found its way into the Romanian and Bulgarian press and into , and has been the cause of great concern in Romania and Bulgaria.
That is why we have taken the liberty of giving a quite clear response to it even before this debate, but I notice that Mr&#160;Brok has no interest in my reaction as he has now left the Chamber.
The response I would like to give to this oral question is twofold, in that I would like to cover both the substance and the procedure.
We would have been able to make it clear that the designation of – and I quote – ‘a close monitoring system’ is something we emphatically reject, because for many Members of this House, it smacks too much of Romania and Bulgaria being under guardianship, and hence, of discrimination between the Member States, with which we want nothing to do.
Finally, there is something I would ask my fellow MEPs to consider.
There are those in my group who claim that it is precisely because we are so strongly in favour of this enlargement that we should be extra critical and check whether the countries actually meet the conditions at the start of the accession process, so that neither the EU nor its enlargement strategy lose credibility.
That is why some of my group think it justified that the pressure should be kept on until the very last minute, until 1&#160;January 2008, in order to guarantee that all countries meet those criteria.
Others in my group, among whom I would include myself, believe that there is a clear difference between Romania and Bulgaria.
Looking back on last year in Bulgaria, we have noticed that reforms are taking place at a superficial level, that implementation is limited, that reforms are being introduced more slowly, and that some vital ones were not carried out until the very last moment.
Looking at Romania, on the other hand, it is evident, not only to us in this House, but also – or so it appears from their reports – to many national and international NGOs and experts, that that rate has gone up and that there is definitely tangible progress, not only on paper but also in practice.
There are real guarantees of an independent campaign against corruption, and, fortunately, a number of initiatives have been taken in respect of cases of it in high places.
That is why it is also justified to reward this tangible progress in Romania by saying that we abide by the accession date of 2007 but – and I am saying this to Mrs&#160;Neyts-Uyttebroeck – only provided that there is a strong monitoring mechanism in place, not in the general sense as the Commissioner suggested, but specifically in the areas of justice, reform and the fight against corruption.
The message we want to send by this to the people of the EU, but also to candidate countries such as Croatia and Turkey, is that if you really try your best to carry out reforms, you will be rewarded for this as a candidate Member State.
In the last quarter, Forum 18 News Service has published a number of reports on this topic which give me cause for great concern about how Bucharest and Sofia are implementing something that is one of the fundamental political Copenhagen criteria.
I do not, in the context of this debate, expect a comprehensive response from you, and so I will give you the Forum 18 documents in a moment.
I would make the same request of you in respect of the long-drawn-out issue of the restitution of Hungarian church property illegally confiscated by Romania’s Communist government between 1945 and 1989.
According to the information available to me, this involves a total of 2&#160;140 church properties, of which the churches are as yet in full possession of only 54.
It would not look very promising, Commissioner, if Romania were to join the EU with this burden from the past distorting its relations with its Hungarian minority. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, once again we face the dilemma – which we have brought upon ourselves – of whether or not we might have to change a scheduled accession date without offending the country – or countries – concerned.
Past experience has taught us that welcoming, out of political – or what are claimed to be political – considerations, a country into a club for which it may well not yet be ready can have devastating consequences.
Any other course of action could well send the wrong message to other candidates for accession and would, in the final analysis, be detrimental to the people of Romania and Bulgaria. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we do not question the timeliness of this accession as we listen to this debate today.
But let me draw your attention, Commissioner, to some important factors when you prepare your report.
One is that, despite the huge steps taken, reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption are still of major concern as regards Romania and Bulgaria.
Dozens of emails and letters inform us that the mere adoption of laws is far from satisfactory in solving the problems or in changing existing practice in this area.
Although it is often questioned whether the situation of minorities is an important factor in this process, their inclusion among the Copenhagen political criteria, as well as the fact that they were monitored during the accession process of the ten previous new Member States, clearly indicates their significance.
That is the situation, despite the fact that the Hungarian party is part of the ruling coalition.
Neglecting these specific concerns, as well as the others regarding the judiciary and corruption, would bring the EU’s credibility into question, both within the acceding countries and within the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not going to repeat the comments made by our rapporteurs, which I fully support, but I would like to come back to Article&#160;39 of the Treaty of Accession.
My group’s opinion has already been stated by our leader Mr Schulz.
As you, Commissioner, have very correctly pointed out in numerous exchanges of views in this House and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Bulgaria has shown continuous progress in all relevant areas, including regional cooperation, modernisation of the Bulgarian police, development of social services, reintegration of persons and minorities, labour and social policy and childcare.
I could go on and on, but let me assure you that in Sofia they have got the message and all the progress that has been made so far or is currently being made has always been progress and always in the right direction.
I do not want to repeat what a previous speaker was saying, but I fully share Mrs Gál’s opinion on the minorities in Romania. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I see the questions today as pertinent and important, because they reflect the general view that there are still concerns about justice, the rule of law and corruption in the two candidate countries under discussion.
Successive governments in Romania and Bulgaria have made superhuman efforts to comply with the advice and recommendations of the European Union.
However, it would send a very damaging signal to these two countries, both of which have bent over backwards to accommodate the Union’s advice and requirements in a spirit of real partnership and openness.
Currently both countries are strongly pro-European Union.
It would be a real shame to risk the high level of trust that those nations have shown – among both the governments and the people – being lost. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to share with the Commissioner a concern I have on the current market situation in Romania by giving him an example.
Last year I visited Rafo, the third biggest oil refining company in the country, and by far the biggest firm in the poor Moldavia province.
The company is trying to overcome major financial problems that have been accumulating since its privatisation in 2001.
Although in July last year a new investor clearly expressed its willingness to clear Rafo’s nominal debt to the Romanian authorities, until now the Government has not shown any interest in this offer.
This discriminatory treatment, which is against free market rules and which questions the impartiality of the Romanian Government towards the companies competing in the market, is still maintained in spite of the solvency and serious intentions of the new investors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the public in Bulgaria and Romania are pinning great hopes on membership in the European Union.
Just like the Member States that joined the European Union in May 2004, they have a huge amount of ground to make up in all fields.
I would be even more glad, though, if it were even now clear that all conditions for their accession had been fulfilled and hence that conditions were ideal for these two countries to become Member States of the European Union.
In the last few days, I myself have had the opportunity to travel with a delegation to Romania, and I would like to say that what we were able to see and experience both in Bucharest and in other parts of the country was very impressive.
Let me conclude by saying one thing, namely that the reason why these reforms have to be carried out in Bulgaria and Romania is not in order that these countries might pass muster in the eyes of Commissioner Rehn or of the European Union; on the contrary, they are necessary in order that their peoples may live in countries in which they may be certain of the law’s protection, with their interests served by stable and democratic institutions.
If that is understood, then we will be on the right track. &#160;&#160; Mr President, even though the Commissioner may struggle to answer a number of questions because he is still working through some of the issues, I am convinced that he has grasped the importance of those questions and the fact that we expect the answers by 16 May.
There is also a little coda to this, on which the Commissioner will be reporting in a few weeks’ time.
As my colleague has already stated, we, as a group, did the same thing that Mr&#160;Ferber has apparently done and launched our own monitoring initiative.
We also insist that the Council, in June, should base its decision on Commission’s proposals and Parliament’s verdict.
In the final analysis, what matters most to us in the assessment after 16&#160;May is what the Commissioner said on 3&#160;April, namely that we can postpone the debate only if it turns out that one of the two countries is clearly unprepared in one or more areas.
Finally, if you will allow me to comment on the Commissioner’s opening remark, I should like to draw your attention once again to the floods, particularly in Romania, but also in Bulgaria, and appeal to the Commission to make every effort in order to help those two countries, along with Serbia, and also to examine what can be done to prevent such disasters from striking in future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I can tell Mr Schulz that, in the ‘other country’ the political hue of whose government he seems to be unable to recall, it is the Liberals who are in power.
It may be difficult for a German social democrat to imagine, but there are such things in Europe as Liberal Prime Ministers – there are, indeed, several of them.
Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been made clear by Mrs&#160;Neyts-Uyttebroeck and Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, we Liberals want Bulgaria and Romania to join the European Union, and they will do that on 1&#160;January&#160;2007, subject to all the national parliaments ratifying the accession treaty, which is what it currently appears likely that they will do.
When our counterparts in the national parliaments vote on the accession of the two candidate countries, many of them will be able to rely on the latest report from the Commission, but we voted at a time when it looked as if Bulgaria was outstripping Romania in the reform stakes.
There would be two countries sitting in the Council, a majority of which would previously have been against either of them being present at all.
Bulgaria was the first country to support the United States of America in the war in Iraq and now it is again the first country willing to take part in the new venture that leads to Iran.
Tell your voters in southern Italy, in France, in Ireland, in Portugal and in Spain that there will be no more money and that they will not be entitled to money from the Cohesion Fund; - secondly, if a Polish plumber travelled thousands of kilometres to get work in Paris, a Bulgarian plumber, farmer or worker will travel just 15 kilometres.
So protect Greek workers who have been living within the framework of Europe for 25 years and will lose their jobs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a member of the Delegation to the EU-Romania Joint Parliamentary Committee I congratulate the Commission and the Romanian Government on their continued cooperation in moving close to preparedness for full accession.
There is, however, one area in which the Commission should maintain its vigilance, and that concerns provision of care for orphans.
Having visited both countries, I do think that both governments and both parliaments have made significant changes in this respect, and it is this pressure that has induced them to make them.
I think it is simply human rather than something negative for us to give thought to in which areas we should, once the decision is taken – which, it is to be hoped, will favour 2007 – to some extent monitor and exert a certain amount of pressure.
It is the NGOs in both countries that are constantly recommending that we combine a decision in favour of 2007 with – where necessary – ongoing monitoring processes.
There is one other consideration I would like to add; you, Commissioner, have constantly taken a more critical line on Bulgaria, and have indeed done so just now.
I agree with you that we have to ensure that the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed in both countries, while at the same time pressing the justice system to speed up proceedings, and I am in complete agreement with what Mr&#160;Schulz said: ‘We want it to be possible for both countries to accede in 2007, for that would be, for all of us, the greatest possible success.’ &#160;&#160; Mr President, ‘wider still and wider shall thy bounds be set’.
I have to tell you, Commissioner, that, if all these problems can actually be sorted out, then I will be all in favour of both states acceding in 2007, but if the Commission’s report, presented to us as the fruit of close scrutiny, confirms the presence of deficiencies that cannot be remedied, then we should consider the possibility of allowing these countries still more time in order to enable them to actually meet the conditions for accession.
The fact is that, if there are serious deficits in justice and home affairs, and we still do not avail ourselves of the options contained in the accession treaty – by which I mean the application of the postponement clause – then I am persuaded that that gives the wrong impression of what the enlargement process is about, and both the enlargement policy and the European Union as a whole would have lost all credibility.
I take it, then, that you, Commissioner, are aware of what your responsibility is when you draft the report and present the conclusions to Parliament in May. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as one who was in Copenhagen when we formulated the Copenhagen criteria in 1993, I have one opening wish to express to the Commissioner: that we do not make any new claims to Bulgaria and Romania compared to the ones we always have based our enlargement politics upon.
No new claims, no extra demands, but exactly the same claims and demands as we have asked from all our Member countries, I take that for granted.
To tell you the truth, as you know Commissioner, I can still see corruption problems in some of the existing Member countries within the European Union.
That is very important.
Finally, as President of the European Socialist Party, I should like to point out that I totally agree with my group colleagues Mr Schulz and Mr Swoboda.
I know that there is a ban in place and I would ask the Commission to give us the decisive view on this, because we have received conflicting information from both sides of this debate.
I am glad to continue to respond to your letters concerning Bulgaria and Romania and the progress made in these two countries.
Let me just sum up the view and position of the Commission as regards the accession date and conditions regarding Bulgaria and Romania.
We will also outline this in May and, if necessary, specify in greater detail in our October progress report.
The essential yardstick will be the progress both countries can still make as regards the reform of the judiciary and their fight against corruption and crime.
For that we need to have clear proof that the structural conditions to fight corruption and organised crime are in place in both countries, because these issues underpin society and the economy in their entirety.
In conclusion I can assure you that the Commission shall present a fully objective and balanced assessment on 16th May and I can assure you that we make a proposal for a carefully calibrated decision that will maintain the momentum of essential reforms and their implementation on the ground up to and beyond the accession of the two countries.
That is our task as the guardian of the Treaties and for this I will ask for your support on 16th May and in the coming debate following that report. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Rehn’s speech on the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the EU is a source of hope to me.
I would like to stress that the Polish Parliament voted almost unanimously in favour of accepting these countries into the EU, with only one vote against.
This is because we believe that expanding the Union to include new countries will on one hand be an expression of solidarity among European countries, while on the other hand creating new opportunities and prospects for both the new countries and the whole of the Community.
I would be delighted if the remaining countries were able to offer this expression of European solidarity in the same way as Poland.
In the past, we were always agreed on the basis and the principles by which this solidarity with the Palestinian people – and the European Union’s Middle East policy itself – were determined.
What has become known as the Oslo process, and the Roadmap, have begun to give this right of self-determination practical shape in the form of a independent Palestinian state coexisting side by side with Israel.
These principles continue to apply, and the Council takes the view that the peace process can succeed only if it is conducted in harmony with them.
The Council has, in terms that admit of no misunderstanding, demanded of the Israeli Government that it should take action to improve the Palestinians’ humanitarian and economic situation, and in particular that it should remit to the Palestinian authority the customs and tax revenue that constitute that body’s principal source of income.
These principles are indeed the expression of a commitment to work, as we said, for peace by peaceful means.
They are not new: they have underpinned our cooperation with the Palestinians for many years.
The Commission’s action is a precautionary measure taken to ensure that no Community funds pass into the hands of Hamas.
My services have already held a meeting for instance with the office of President Mahmoud Abbas to discuss implementing some of those projects, for instance through the office of the President.
This means that we committed almost half of our normal year’s budget in only two months.
EUR&#160;100&#160;million of this has already been paid: five times more than we paid for the same period in 2005.
The Commission is all too aware that the economic, social and humanitarian crisis in the Palestinian territories is unfortunately getting worse.
I have heard some people say that Europe has been paying the salaries of the Palestinian Authority.
These are Palestinian taxes which people have already paid.
Addressing these problems will do more to help the Palestinian people than any measure the EU can take.
All of us in the international community have to intensify our diplomatic efforts with Israel on these two issues.
On the Palestinian side, President Abbas has indeed a key role to play, including in negotiating with Israel.
Rather, we are looking with other donors at the possibility of establishing an international supervision mechanism that could facilitate the control of funds for donors to meet needs, for instance in the health and education sectors.
The Quartet meeting on 9&#160;May is an opportunity for the international community to address this question, as well as measures Israel could take to ease the humanitarian situation.
In any event, as Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner pointed out, we are clearly dealing with a double contradiction: an internal contradiction from the European Union's point of view, because it is not possible for the European Union to include the party that has won the elections on its list of terrorist organisations and, on the other, to make a financial contribution from the Community budget to an organisation that does not renounce violence.
Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner has also said that nobody has helped the Palestinian people as much as the European Union.
And that is absolutely the case, because of every 100 dollars spent on this peace process, 60 have been provided by the European Union.
I am not disputing the fact that the requests directed by the Union to the new government in Palestine are fair; it is the means used for this purpose that puzzle me: the Palestinian people must be able to count on our full economic, political and moral support.
I will conclude by making three suggestions: - we should work towards consolidating Hamas’ decision to call a truce, a decision that has also been confirmed; - we should work towards developing, and devolving responsibility to, all of the actors involved in the Palestinian political framework, even with a change in the government in prospect, and propose to both of the negotiating parties that they acknowledge the agreements and the road map; - we should work towards achieving a new chapter of mutual legitimisation with the prospect of a definitive solution in mind.
In this context, we can only confirm our opposition to any unilateral initiative that might jeopardise the possibility of finding a solution to unresolved issues such as that relating to borders, up to and including the status of Jerusalem. &#160;&#160; .
We supported the Palestinian Authority with USD&#160;600&#160;million a year because we wanted to influence the peace process.
Let us, the European Union take the initiative, not leave it to countries like Iran. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the situation in Palestine is very tense.
Hamas has now, for 18 months, refrained from using serious violence against Israel, while Israel has systematically bombarded Gaza and frequently killed civilians, including children.
If the EU really wished to do so, it would not, in short, be difficult for it to find means of cooperating with the Palestinian authorities so that peaceful development might be strengthened and Hamas made more democratic.
Moreover, we accept a situation in which Israel sets aside all of the EU’s conditions.
In return, an old police station located in Ras Al-Amud, in the centre of the Arab quarter of East Jerusalem, will be handed over.
We are continuing to demand, and rightly so in my view, that Hamas, for example, denounces violence, but we must also set store by the fact that Hamas has not carried out any violence for 18 months now and says that it wants to continue like that.
It is with this in mind that we must continue to explore the ways in which another legitimate authority in the Palestinian sphere, namely President Abbas, can be helpful and what room for manoeuvre he possesses, for he – in exactly the same way as the Palestinian parliament – was directly elected by the people and possesses a democratic legitimacy of his own.
These two possibilities are alternatives to paying the money to the Hamas-run Palestinian Authority, which has responded to the suicide bombing by making appalling statements, while the Israeli Prime Minister Mr&#160;Olmert has been measured in his words.
If, in short, elections were to take place tomorrow, I fear that it would no longer be 44% of the votes that Hamas would gain, but perhaps 70%.
That is very serious.
What is the reason, then, for a brutal decision that has had incalculable political consequences?
People had better not say to us that their patience was exhausted, that Hamas had been warned and that humanitarian aid will continue to be granted.
The enormity of this decision warrants more plausible explanations.
The list could well become an endless one, but there is one thing that must never again be demanded of Israel, and that is that it should bargain for its very existence with a government whose manifesto included the annihilation of the Jews and the destruction of Israel, a government that declared, immediately on being elected, that it would not lose sight of that goal, that it was – of course – not daft, that it would pursue its objective pragmatically and step by step, and that it would not, of course, not make it too obvious to the West that that was what they were about, and yet that is what they want to do – and today we have got to the point where this has to be said loud and clear; thank you for having done just that. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we have been monitoring with horror an exceptionally dangerous escalation of the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories since 30 March.
According to the official report by the UN special coordinator for the Middle East to the Security Council, 40 people lost their lives last month, including at least three Palestinian children.
I personally find it abominable that the Hamas government openly supported the suicide Passover attack in Tel Aviv recently and continue to allow rocket attacks which fall indiscriminately and deliberately on civilian targets in Israel: a war crime under international law.
We fully support the Quartet and the roadmap – the Quartet because of Russia.
We have to try to find another tool.
However, we need to strengthen Palestinian liberals, we need a European initiative for democracy and human rights, and an international financial human rights tool to help the Palestinians strengthen moderate, liberal political parties. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with regard to the Middle East, we Europeans have a clear choice: we can either join the great international coalition which is seeking the isolation and eventual collapse of the Palestinian authority led by Hamas, or we can opt for an autonomous European policy aimed at allowing Hamas to govern subject to a series of staggered and realistic political and security conditions to which the European Union could respond with more dialogue, more aid and, possibly, political recognition measures.
If we are to make political demands of the Palestinians, we cannot ignore the possible entry into the Israeli Government of Liberman's party, with a political programme that is openly racist against the Arab minority in Israel.
Therefore we must spare no effort in encouraging Hamas to change its position and come round to a position that we hope will promote the peace process.
I think – and I thank all those who have supported this position – that the European Union is a community of values which stands by principles and cannot deviate from those principles.
The Council urged Israel to take steps to improve the humanitarian and economic situation of the Palestinians including by resuming transfers of the withheld Palestinian tax and customs revenues’.
This is very clear language and we are using the same kind of urgent tone with Israel when it comes to compliance with international law.
The Middle East Quartet will meet at Foreign Minister level on 9&#160;May, and of course President Abbas’s recent appeal to hold an international peace conference will be a subject at that meeting.
I would like to repeat that we have not stopped aid to the Palestinian people, as some have said.
On the contrary, we have accelerated our aid by already giving more than EUR&#160;100&#160;million at the very beginning of this year.
They have to know we have not let them down, but at the same time it is very clear that we cannot give direct aid to a government that is not responding to this very clear demand on the principles.
As our Council Presidency said, we are applying the same criteria that we have applied.
Now more than ever the European Union has an opportunity to demonstrate its relevance in the international negotiations for a solution to the crisis, by aiming to establish its role as a main negotiating partner through the promotion of values that have so far prevailed within our borders: peace, tolerance and democracy. &#160;&#160; I would like to recall the situation of the Palestinian people, who are at this time faced with hardships on a scale that we cannot begin to comprehend.
The EU decision to end direct funding for the democratically-elected Palestinian Authority is likely to have disastrous consequences for the delivery of basic services in cash-strapped Palestine.
For its part, Hamas should recognise that its ability to fulfil its duties and serve the people will be linked to its willingness to renounce violence and recognise the rights of the people of Israel.
I hope Hamas will commit to peaceful means.
Thirdly, the members of the Committees on Foreign Affairs and on Development, because they have approved this report unanimously by means of a very unusual vote ― 51 votes in favour, 0 votes against and 0 abstentions, and with no amendment to plenary on behalf of the political groups ― which demonstrates clearly the will of the whole of Parliament to back the report that will be put to the vote tomorrow.
We are also calling for a renewal and updating of the ministerial political dialogue and we recommend the adoption of a renewed bi-regional political agenda, to include new issues: the threats to governability, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the preservation of the environment and natural resources, bringing together the positions of the Member States of the European Union with those of Latin America in the United Nations, and many other issues which must be enshrined in initiatives such as the signature of a Euro-Latin American charter for peace and security.
One area in which we can clearly move on from words to actions is that of the commercial element of the association agreements.
Commissioner, I would like to speak most frankly: in the European Parliament’s view, the time for cooperation and political dialogue agreements with the Andean and Central American Communities has long since passed, and we recommend that the decision be taken in Vienna to move on to the association agreement stage.
I am aware that there may be a degree of uncertainty at the moment given Venezuela’s decision to leave the Andean Community, but now more than ever the European Union must send a clear and well-defined message in this direction, in order not to strengthen the position of those people who are against the integration processes.
We also hope that the Commissioner and the Presidency-in-Office of the Council will demonstrate their commitment to ensuring that, through everybody’s efforts, this Vienna Summit is a success. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by thanking Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra most warmly for the excellent report, and also for the kind words he addressed to the Council.
My participation in the recent meeting at Dornbirn in Austria was in fact, among other things, an indication of the Council Presidency’s great interest in enhanced cooperation at parliamentary level, and it goes without saying that the European Parliament will be represented at the fourth Summit in Vienna on 12 May, as will the regional and sub-regional parliaments of Latin America.
That is a very important dimension of cooperation between the regions, and it is something that we in the Council do of course welcome.
We must not lose sight of the fact that this Summit offers a unique opportunity to enhance cooperation, and I can say with a degree of pride that the holding of it was a matter of voluntary choice by the Austrian Federal Government, not least since it would serve as a sign of how important it is to us that this Summit meeting between the EU, Latin America and the Caribbean should, for the first time, be held outside an Iberian or American context.
I also particularly want to thank your House and, of course, the Commission too, for the ways in which you and they have helped make this journey a successful one.
The Council is entirely of one mind with the European Parliament and the Commission as regards the EU/Latin American partnership’s most important goals and degrees of action, something that is made quite clear in the conclusions adopted by the Council at the end of February, in which the Council reiterated its determination to further strengthen this alliance in the interests of both regions.
It is in our interest to enhance this cooperation if we are to promote our common values and interests and to make a joint contribution to peace and security, to the protection of human right and to greater public participation and democracy.
Social cohesion, sustainable development, the protection and enhancement of the global environment within the framework of the United Nations are topics on which we have established a tradition of good cooperation with our Latin American partners.
I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the good cooperation between most of the Latin American countries and the European Union where the reform of the United Nations is concerned, particularly over recent months.
We are also very grateful to those Latin American states that have given remarkable support in reaching the decision on the establishment of a Human Rights Council.
The third EU/Latin America Summit in 2004 was held in Guadalajara and saw us making some very ambitious commitments, which, in particular, involve both partners in striving to adopt fiscal and economic measures that will facilitate the improved distribution of wealth and appropriate social policies.
The European Union will continue to support these efforts at reinforcing democratic institutions, responsible governance and the rule of law and combating drugs and organised crime, including the trafficking in human beings.
Only a few weeks ago, I met with the foreign minister of Peru, and we had the opportunity to discuss this issue.
I can assure all Members of your House, and you, Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra, that we are very much interested in carrying this process forward, although the conditions for that must, of course, be right.
I would like in particular to welcome this excellent initiative and to congratulate Mr&#160;Salafranca especially on the great work he has done on this report.
As you know, this report represents Parliament’s response to the proposals made by the Commission in its Communication of 8&#160;December.
I would like to express my most sincere gratitude for the political support that you have given us and for the way that cooperation between our two institutions has been strengthened.
On the one hand, the Council has been most receptive to our Communication and adopted conclusions in this regard at the end of February.
Thanks to the three institutions, therefore, the Commission has the necessary political support to continue moving forward.
Thirdly, I hope that today’s debate on Latin America sends a positive signal to our partners, assuring them that Europe maintains a strong interest in its region.
We need strong, solid and reliable partners in Latin America.
This Summit is taking place within a context of significant challenges and exchanges, and also changes, in Latin America and the Caribbean.
I believe that the Vienna Summit offers an excellent opportunity to achieve this visibility and to hold that dialogue on social cohesion, but also on regional integration and multilateralism.
The Bregenz meeting took place within that context and I am very pleased that it has been a real success.
This decision still depends upon the Central American countries clearly demonstrating that they are moving forward with their own integration strategy, but I am very optimistic, and I believe that these decisions will be formalised at the meeting of the Central American Heads of State or Government that will take place from 5 to 7 May.
With regard to the Andean Community, the situation has unfortunately become more complicated since Venezuela left the Community a few days ago, as we know.
I have spoken personally to President&#160;Morales and we still hope that the internal meetings within the Andean Community can open up a way forward.
With regard to Mercosur, I know that the situation is much more difficult, unfortunately, but I still hope that Vienna will at least provide strong political impetus in order to make progress with the negotiations that are running in parallel with the Doha negotiations.
We wished to stress that, although these relations certainly have an important political dimension – well expressed by Mr&#160;Salafranca – they must also be seen and developed from the point of view of development cooperation and the strategic objectives and commitments that Parliament, the Council and the Commission set a few months ago in the tripartite declaration which we know as the European Strategy for Development.
For the first time in years, Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, the Commission and Parliament are using the same language when talking about Latin America.
Commissioner, you should know that, when you defend your proposal in Vienna at the 4th EU-Latin America/Caribbean Summit, you will have the majority, if not the unanimous, support of the whole of the European Parliament.
These are not good times for a proposal such as this, but many of us are convinced that we have a special opportunity to move in the right direction.
The rapporteur has said that for many years we have been stating our good intentions towards Latin America, which is experiencing complex times both internally and in its relations with the rest of the world.
If the Union does not take certain clear and unequivocal steps to strengthen our relations with Latin America and with its sub-regional integration institutions, we may not have another opportunity like this for many years. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner and to Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra, whom our group supported and whose work today at the centre of our debate it welcomes.
Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra reminds us that we must eventually adopt a strategic approach to Latin America, a broad outlook that aims to place side by side all the points that matter to us: the social aspect, the economic aspect and the cultural aspect.
Major new players have emerged strongly in the social and political spheres; we must take account of these new players, including, of course, the indigenous and mestizo part of society, which until recently was sidelined from the political process.
We must realistically consider the fact, too, that regional integration processes often mark time and, from that point of view, our experience can support and help the work being done by Latin American countries.
Finally, we must bear in mind, as Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra points out, that poverty remains endemic in that continent: 45% of the population live below the poverty line.
That tells us that Latin America remains a continent with significant economic and income-related disparities, in other words a continent of inequality.
However, it is important not to forget the rest of the world.
My group is very critical of the fact that the Council has adopted a softer line on the Castro regime and that not enough support is being given to the democratic opposition, the representatives of which have twice been awarded Parliament’s Sakharov prize.
A summit is to take place in Vienna in May between the EU and Latin America.
We also need to reform our trade policy in order to increase mutual exchange in this area.
Cooperation must take place on a long-term and regular basis.
I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra on his report.
The unanimity with which the report was adopted shows how important it is for the whole of Parliament, irrespective of political groups and despite the slightly differing views on individual development processes, to recognise that we really must deepen this cooperation.
The fact that we are so united on this issue is a strength.
The rapporteur is aware that we are not in full agreement on the strategy and objectives proposed in the report: there are certain disagreements, which I believe is to be expected in a situation such as this, but certain elements allow us to be optimistic and positive.
I therefore believe that we must take a generally positive view of this report.
Secondly, since two Austrians are here – an Austrian Commissioner and naturally an Austrian representing the Presidency—in-Office of the Council – I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the issue of feminicides, which has been discussed in this House on several occasions, must be given a prominent place at the Vienna Summit.
I would ask Mr&#160;Salafranca to make one more effort, because, since this report, we have held the meeting in Bregenz – the third very important parliamentary meeting involving more than 90 parliamentarians from Latin America, the Caribbean and Europe.
On this basis, therefore, I would ask – and I know that we have very little time left – for a final effort from Mr&#160;Salafranca so that paragraphs 6, 21 and 66, which mention a Euro-Latin American free-trade area, can be worded in accordance with the Bregenz declaration. &#160;&#160; () Ladies and gentlemen, I&#160;would like to start by thanking Mr&#160;Salafranca not just for his report, but also for his constructive approach in the discussions between the European Union and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean earlier this week.
I&#160;also appreciate the way the President of the European Parliament Mr&#160;Borrell conducted these discussions in Bregenz, which concluded with the adoption of a&#160;final joint declaration.
The European Union is a key partner for the countries of Latin America, not only in commerce, industry, science and technology, but also from the viewpoint of assistance with the democratisation of society.
I would like to thank you for including my remarks on the situation for women and their position in these countries.
The white slave trade, with the abuse of women and children as prostitutes and the inadequate representation of women in society, is an issue that needs to be resolved not just in Europe, but also in the countries of Latin America.
Commissioner, I support the establishment of a bi-regional solidarity fund earmarked primarily for education, eradicating illiteracy and supporting social cohesion.
Not only do we share a common cultural heritage and fundamental Western values on democracy, human rights and the rule of law – as well as having a small piece of EU territory there in the form of French Guiana.
We face in the region a degree of potential instability now, with the rise of demi-gods such as Presidents Morales and Chavez in Bolivia and Venezuela respectively, who cosy up to the Castro Communist dictatorship of Cuba and reject Western concepts of freedom and democracy.
Finally, Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, let us not abandon the Andean countries just because one of them has cast the Andean Community aside: we cannot reward the country that has boycotted the Community, but rather we must reward those countries such as Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and – who knows? – Bolivia, that want to maintain an agreement with the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the report and the Commission's strategic communication on enhanced cooperation between the European Union and Latin America serve the objectives of European capital to acquire an even bigger share of Latin American by creating conditions for its unaccountable action.
The rest is just pretty words.
In reality they are calling on the countries of Latin America to adopt and apply the policy of the European Union in the economic and political sector and even to accept its foreign policy.
We are with them and the Council is right to worry about the departure of Venezuela from the Andean Community; it is an alternative and progressive method of cooperation for these countries. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Latin America has recently recorded higher growth than expected, and Mercosur, the fourth largest economic area in the world, has certainly played a fundamental part in achieving that outcome.
Strengthening cooperation between the European Union and Latin America, by prioritising a two-way strategic partnership in political and institutional terms, with the aim of steering economic cooperation and socio-cultural integration between the two continents more effectively, are objectives that the party that I represent and also the common sense of the citizens and governments generally can only share.
Italy, for example, has more than half of the businesses in Latin America with offices in Mercosur countries.
We therefore support the Commission’s intention to broaden the dialogue and the subjects of mutual interest to incorporate the excellent recommendations in Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra’s report, while taking care to ensure, however, that the alleged need for greater promotion of trade does not lead to excessive liberalisation, resulting in unfair competition for European industry.
I would therefore be grateful to Mr&#160;Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra if he were to expand his report along those lines. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Latin America has fired people’s imagination and emotions ever since it was discovered.
The aim of the report is to provide Latin America with European experience in the area of integration, by which I mean common structures, common practices, organs and institutions that function efficiently, programmes that open the way to cooperation with Europe and a willingness to take on the challenges of the modern world together with the EU.
In solving all these problems, Latin America should be able to count on the European Union’s help.
Finally, I would like to mention one more thing: cooperation should include a clause for the protection of civil liberties and human rights.
I hope the Commissioner will tonight confirm her agreement with the UN Commissioner for Human Rights that her office in Colombia retain the double mandate, including monitoring, not restricting its duties to simply technical assistance.
There will also, in Vienna, be an alternative summit with basic-level associations from Latin America and the EU, and it is this alternative summit that enjoys our group’s firm support.
What the people of Latin America need from us is support, not least of a practical and political kind. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to thank Mr&#160;Salafranca for his report.
The Latin American countries achieved GDP growth of 3-4% last year, and are an increasingly large export market not for the European Union, but for Asia.
In addition to resolutions, we should take advantage of our cultural legacy and existing economic links with Latin America to draw up an efficient economic programme, based on common actions and benefits, in order to avoid losing out on the economic benefits of cooperation.
As well as reports setting out a vision of future measures, it would appear that a review of the working procedures of EU bodies is necessary, in order to react quickly to changes resulting from the functioning of the global market that work to the disadvantage of our citizens. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament who was not born in the Iberian Peninsula, one minute is sufficient for me to express my conviction that the current level of cooperation between the European Union and Latin America does not reflect the interests of the countries and the citizens of both parties.
I am very pleased with the excellent report by Mr&#160;Salafranca, by means of which the European Parliament is demonstrating its contribution to the political will required for the strong and genuine development of strategic relations.
Finally, I believe that not only are bilateral relations with individual countries or with Mercosur or the Andean Community important, but also relations with the whole of Latin America. &#160;&#160; .
Mr&#160;Romeva i Rueda and Mrs&#160;Belohorská raised a topic that is in fact also of particular importance to the Austrian President-in-Office of the Council Mrs&#160;Ursula&#160;Plassnik, that being the issue of violence against women and of trafficking in human beings, particularly of women and girls.
We have all worked very hard to achieve this, with some excellent preparatory meetings, such as the ministerial meeting on social cohesion in Brussels, meetings on immigration issues and drugs in Cartagena, a civil society meeting in Vienna, a meeting for business that has yet to take place, and, of course, the parliamentary meeting in Dornbirn.
In terms of substance, I should also like to say that, in addition to the topics we have dealt with today, the issue of human rights and the strengthening of the institutions will, of course, also be discussed, including the violence against women in Ciudad Juárez.
The official responsible for these women's issues has recently visited both your House and the Commission, and we held very intensive talks on the matter.
I wished to make a very brief comment and make two procedural points which I believe may facilitate the vote on this report during tomorrow’s plenary sitting.
With regard to Mr&#160;Meyer’s comment, I would like to say to Mr&#160;Meyer that the Bregenz Declaration is inspired by this Parliament’s report, rather than this Parliament's report being inspired by the Bregenz Declaration.
You are perfectly aware that, if I was prepared to make a concession in the negotiation of the final document, it was out of a spirit of consensus and not because I did not have a large majority in support of the positions we have adopted.
What I would like to say to you, however, Mr&#160;Meyer, most affectionately and frankly, is that when I vote or speak on my own behalf or on behalf of my political group, I do so in full acceptance of any significance it may have, and, although I have never asked you for this, I would nevertheless be willing to change the reference to the Euro-Latin American free-trade area for the reference requested by Mr&#160;Romeva, who is not currently in the Chamber, and replace it with an area of global inter-regional partnership, in the three paragraphs in question, which are paragraphs 6, 21 and 66.
Twenty years ago, one of our fellow Members, named Mr&#160;Donnez, gained approval for a report on European parliamentary immunity with the aim of overcoming a situation that, 20 years back, was already limited and unsuited to the scope of the European Parliament as a whole.
The Council, however, objected to the subject’s being reincorporated into the primary legislation, so we amended the part of the statute that related to Parliament’s organisational aspects; an albeit difficult management exercise followed, which subsequently yielded a result: the Council – and here is the crux of the issue Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen – endeavoured to convene an intergovernmental meeting of the Member States, including all of the various countries, in order to be able to ratify what we had decided in Parliament.
I believe that we have now struck a very important balance: we have debated and we have very astutely bestowed on the Members of the European Parliament as a whole prerogatives that enhance the role of Parliament and increase its independence.
We have taken a great leap forward; when this is recognised we will undoubtedly be able to bestow on Members of the European Parliament a much more important and much more precious role.
In a statement on the Statute, the Council did indeed state that it was, in principle, prepared to examine the possibility of amending the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities for Members of the European Parliament when the Statute was adopted.
It goes without saying that the Council will stand by this statement, and I would stress that we are still prepared to look into this matter even though, as you know, the Statute will not enter into force until 2009 when the next European Parliament is formed.
With regard to the question on convening an Intergovernmental Conference, I would first of all point out that the procedure is laid down in Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union and that, under that article, the government of any Member State or the Commission may submit to the Council proposals for the amendment of the Treaties on which the Union is founded.
Under paragraph 2 of that article, a conference of representatives of the governments of the Member States shall be convened by the President of the Council if the Council, after consulting the European Parliament and, where appropriate, the Commission, delivers an opinion in favour of calling such a conference.
Those are the rules in the Treaty on European Union.
I will leave open the question of whether it would be appropriate to convene an Intergovernmental Conference solely for the purpose of amending the privileges and immunities of the Members of the European Parliament.
In any case, as you know, it is the privilege of the representatives of the governments of the Member States at an Intergovernmental Conference to decide the basis on which their debates will be held.
The question, though, is whether now is the right time to take such a step solely for the purpose of amending the Treaties with regard to privileges and immunities. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the political Europe that we want to build requires a new institutional and legal order, covering the statutory rules for Members of the European Parliament.
It helps us to understand Parliament's significance in the development of the political European Union.
The System of Members’ privileges and immunities is an integral part of the fabric of the Statute.
The question that Parliament is asking the Council today is not merely formal in nature.
Its purpose is to highlight the difference between a concept of Europe as an integrated democratic structure with Parliament at its centre and a concept of Europe as a fragmented structure.
Furthermore, the review of the system of privileges and immunities forms part of a commitment made by the Council.
The possibility of holding an intergovernmental conference, now or at some point in the future, could be discussed.
Therefore, I propose that we include the adoption of the MEP Statute in our agenda as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today we are debating changes to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of Members of the European Parliament.
In my opinion, we should focus first and foremost on amending the law on immunity for Members as quickly as possible.
We should put in place a uniform system which is the same for Members from all the countries within the European Union.
Regulations of this kind would also make it impossible to employ the sorts of practices that we have had to deal with on more than one occasion, whereby governments in individual countries have levelled groundless accusations at Members as part of their campaign against an inconvenient opposition. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that the representative of the Council, Mr&#160;Winkler, has responded quite correctly to the situation we are faced with today: we have not yet been able to approve the Constitution and, furthermore, if we were to hold a debate at this point on the privileges and immunities of the Members of the European Parliament, we would probably find that the majority of European public opinion would not be prepared to guarantee the Members of the Parliament the immunities and privileges that we have today.
As the Presidency of the Council, we will of course submit the wish expressed here to the Member States, referring to all elements including the statement that has already been cited here several times.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; – After the incident with Chernobyl reactor number four just twenty years ago, a radioactive cloud enveloped not just this former Soviet republic, but the whole of Europe.
Breaches of safety regulations, human error and a subsequent lack of information has resulted in unnecessary loss of life among the people of my region.
This proposal to extract oil from the continental shelf off the Russian island of Sakhalin threatens not only the economy and way of life of the island’s inhabitants, but also poses a potential environmental disaster of alarming proportions.
Both the European Community and the European Investment Bank are shareholders in a bank that proposes to finance a project which will have exactly the opposite effect to protecting the environment.
In the Czech Republic, the deputy leader of a political party standing at almost 20% in the opinion polls was attacked and brutally beaten by three assailants five weeks before the elections.
International aid does not serve to support this or that party in power but, in accordance with the Oslo agreements, it does ensure the very existence of the Palestinian Authority and of its basic public services.
This decision is counter-productive and will help to strengthen Hamas.
The project is based on outdated land development plans, which do not take into account the growth of the city and the building of new residential estates.
I hope that there are people in the European Parliament who care about the good of the environment in Poland, and also about the health of thousands of citizens in Poland. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, during a parade in Milan yesterday marking the anniversary of the liberation of Italy and Europe from Nazi occupation, a very serious anti-Semitic incident – a really violent case of racism – occurred.
Mr&#160;President, I make a formal request that in your official capacity you intervene and once again condemn these anti-Semitic, racist incidents, by means of a formal position statement from the President. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to come back to the attacks suffered in my country, France, by some young German pupils while they took part in an educational exchange programme with some schools in the Paris suburbs.
These are extremely serious events, and I should like to express my indignation to you.
When it is clear that the European idea was constructed, of course, in order to put a stop to xenophobia and to wars between nations, actions such as these are inadmissible.
It seems to me that it is our duty to react most indignantly.
We also need to express our solidarity with the Italian minister, who was accompanying her own father, a former Dachau deportee now confined to a wheelchair, in the parade.
It is absolutely essential that the Maoists now become part of the democratic process and renounce violence.
I urge them, as the Chairwoman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South Asia and the South Asia Association for Regional Cooperation, to listen and act on this message.
Over the last three weeks, the world has witnessed intense protests and suffering in Nepal and we are very relieved to see that peace is finally being restored to the streets of Kathmandu.
However, the EU and all the external partners involved in this process must be vigilant that this positive turn of events is a real watershed; this must not be another missed opportunity for democracy in Nepal.
I strongly urge the Commission, the Council and all external partners to take the necessary measures to prevent any possibility of this country relapsing into confusion and violence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in November 2005 the European Commission presented the new regional policy initiatives Jaspers, Jeremie and Jessica for the first time.
They are new aid instruments which are of particular importance for the new members of the European Union, and which are designed to facilitate funding absorption in the field of cohesion policy between 2007 and 2013.
Despite the fact that six months have already passed since the first presentation, it is impossible to find a brochure or even any kind of publication on the subject, let alone in the national languages.
In remembering those innocent victims of Ottoman barbarism we must renew our demand to the Turkish government of today to overcome its criminal obstinacy of total denial of the Armenian genocides and at least, even with so much delay, have the decency to say sorry to the Armenian people for the abominable holocaust inflicted on them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the last part-session I revealed the allegation that Romano Prodi had been an agent of some kind of the KGB.
It is not possible to resign from the KGB any more than it is from La Cosa Nostra.
It is not acceptable that this situation is unresolved, given the importance of Russia’s relations with the European Union.
I make this unequivocal statement in light of the ban on imports of Georgian and Moldovan wine imposed by the Russian Federation on 27 March.
Therefore I propose that the European Food Safety Authority should perform an independent analysis of the quality of Moldovan wine.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Parliament recently voted in favour of resolutions condemning, for example, the manner in which the elections have been conducted in certain countries, such as Belarus, where it would appear that the outgoing candidate had far greater resources at his disposal than the opposition candidate.
Should we not, however, put our own house in order first?
This may come as a surprise to you, because as everyone knows and as probably many people will say, the Court of Auditors has not issued a Statement of Assurance about the Commission’s conduct of policy for 11 years in a row.
Although it is unfortunate that Mr&#160;Wynn is absent, I should like to start with last year’s resolution which he compiled and in which he introduced a number of fresh elements, the key one being that we felt that the highest political authority in every Member State should make a declaration at the beginning and end of each financial year to the effect that everything is in order in terms of political control.
It is unfortunate that this demand by Parliament has met with much resistance in the Member States.
The President of the Court of Auditors once again published his annual report in November and made an interesting suggestion.
There is yet more work to be done by the European Court of Auditors.
Finally, the next few years will prove crucial to the Commission.
Secondly, I would have been happy if I could have reported today, like the rapporteur on the Commission's budget, that Parliament's authorities had done everything properly, and that we just had a few problems because many of the positions created in connection with the enlargement had not been filled, because we had the highest non-implementation rate, in other words transfers, ever seen in the history of Parliament's budget, and a few other issues.
In the last few days, however, a story has come to light that clearly needs to be brought up here because of its peculiarities.
I think that what this Parliament's Legal Service delivered this afternoon in the Committee on Budgetary Control, against the interests of the Members – and, I might add, Mr Vice-President, against the interests of the Bureau – was unacceptable.
We need to look into whether the city of Strasbourg, in providing a property on which a Dutch pension fund has constructed a building, has concluded a rental agreement with us for a sum significantly different from the sum that it pays to the pension fund – and not to the detriment of Strasbourg, but to its benefit.
To be absolutely clear, this is not about the issue of having the seat of Parliament in Strasbourg – that is laid down in the Treaties – but about whether it is really the purpose of such a sub-letting situation that, in the rent we are paying to the city of Strasbourg, we are giving a direct subsidy – for that is exactly what it would be – to the city's budget.
Given that this agreement was not just signed yesterday but, if the information I currently have is correct, has been in place since 1980, we also need to look into the issue of who in this House already knew about the situation in the past and who failed to protect the interests of European tax-payers in this connection by concluding the rental agreement directly with the pension fund.
The city of Strasbourg is already profiting from the European Parliament without needing such payments.
This lack of confidence in the EU is, unfortunately, well deserved.
Four of the remaining five institutions are open to criticism, but not of so serious a character that there is reason for questioning whether discharge should be granted.
The Council, the European Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors and the European Economic and Social Committee are in this position.
In the course of 2004, the European Economic and Social Committee had problems involving irregularities in relation to the reimbursement of members’ travelling expenses.
Where the Council is concerned, many of the risks are to be found, as usual, in administrative activities relating to the building projects in which the Council is involved.
Moreover, the internal auditor has not completed any of his investigations since he was appointed in 2003.
Parliament expects to see energetic measures and strong improvements in this area.
It is therefore essential that a complete and detailed progress report on this project be made to the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I turn now to our black sheep, namely the Committee of the Regions which, of the ‘Other Institutions’ examined, has attracted the most criticism from the Court of Auditors.
It seems obvious that this should have been discovered by the Committee of the Regions no later than in the course of 2004 and that these payments should then have been stopped.
In recent years, the Committee of the Regions has been partly characterised by irregularities of various kinds, showing that the promised culture change within the organisation has not taken place.
It would be irresponsible to grant discharge before we know the results of this investigation.
What is more, the Committee of the Regions’ internal auditor was refused access to the documents he had requested in this connection.
A majority of members of the Committee on Budgetary Control refused, then, to study information that I, as rapporteur, considered to be of vital importance in adopting a position on the discharge issue.
The majority of the Committee refused to study the information and then voted in favour of our proposing to Parliament that discharge be granted right now, in spite of the fact that I as rapporteur maintain that we should await the outcome of ongoing investigations by OLAF and the Court of Auditors.
I understand that the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control have now had the opportunity to study documents indicating various irregularities.
If there is a vote on the report, I would call on you to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by Mr&#160;Staes and myself with a view to obtaining the facts of the case.
That is what we must do if we take seriously the demand for accountability, which is at the heart of the democratic process. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, as rapporteur on the discharge for the European Development Funds, I wish to start by saying that these funds are an important and valuable tool for promoting solidarity, prosperity in the world, peace, the principles of justice and respect for human rights.
The Committee on Budgetary Control examines the implementation of these budgets of these funds and formulates its opinion on optimum administration with efficiency and transparency.
We express our concern at the fact that only EUR 12&#160;million (0.4% of the budget) is earmarked for basic education and EUR 74 million (just 2.7%) for basic health, despite the recommendations made by the European Parliament in last year's resolution.
These objectives concern both the European institutions and decentralised services in ACP countries which benefit from the funds and the national administration authorities and the parliaments of these countries.
It is time for our political objectives and effective methods to be combined with better communication and visibility both as regards our actions as independent actions and within the framework of international organisations, at the UN, the World Bank and other bodies. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the discharges for the implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2004. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has the important task of granting discharge for the financial year 2004 to 14 European agencies that are fully, partially or indirectly subsidised by the European Union.
I take this opportunity to highlight what I have just said, which is that discharge is given to just 14 out of the 27 agencies that exist.
In reality, it is important to note that not all of these bodies are fully or even partially funded via grants charged to the budget.
The conclusion may therefore be drawn that the discharge decision covers both the budget and the non-budget funding of these bodies.
They revealed a few irregularities of very little significance, and I therefore endorse the decision of the Court of Auditors, which proposes granting discharge to the directors of all 14 agencies analysed.
One such issue concerns the Financial Regulation, which was devised for the agencies, while the subsequent financial regulations specific to each agency were designed to adhere as closely as possible to the general Financial Regulation created by the Commission.
I therefore believe the Commission should table a report on the current situation, describing both each agency’s current capacity for performing an internal audit and the internal audit services that the Commission can make available to the smallest agencies.
Since the programme has come to an end, the Commission has decided to close the Agency by the end of 2008.
This would be in addition to the immediate humanitarian assistance provided by ECHO, the Commission’s department set up to help in the event of natural disasters or armed conflict in regions outside the EU.
I am pleased that this progress is also reflected in Parliament’s reports, and that it has been proposed that Parliament should approve the Commission’s implementation of the budget.
Last week, the Commission sent each of these national audit institutions detailed lists of all of the payments made to their respective Member States in 2005, also inviting them to share the results of their audits with the Commission and the Court of Auditors.
Thus the first steps have been taken in this direction, and I intend to raise this matter at the meeting of the coordinating committee of the European and national audit courts, to be held in Poland at the end of this year.
I have enjoyed that support in the past year, and I wish to confirm that we, for our part, will do our utmost.
I support the PSE Group line in this regard.
Nevertheless, the Committee calls for a more transparent but flexible approach to the way grants are given and EU funds administered. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the draftsman for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I should like to stress that the European Court of Auditors already has a tradition of criticism of the trans-European networks.
The Court of Auditors also criticised the coordination, stating that 'the coordination of the various sources of Community funding for transport infrastructure projects by the various Directorates-General does not allow the Commission to detect all cases of over- or double funding'.
I should like to conclude by expressing my deep gratitude to the Court of Auditors.
As EMSA states in the annexes, the maritime and aviation safety agencies should in future make better use of their available resources, although the agencies were still new and had certain teething problems in 2004. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I should first like to express my appreciation for the work done by the different rapporteurs and, in particular, by Mr&#160;Mulder for the general budget and Mr&#160;Guidoni for the agencies.
The first of these remarks concerns the implementation rate of the budget in the ‘freedom, security and justice’ area, with particular regard to payments.
Although there was an improvement on 2003, when the rate was as low as 68%, the implementation rate of payments for 2004 remained inadequate at 83% and is clearly below the average rate of budget implementation.
If one leaves out Europol – and I should like to take this opportunity, as I do every opportunity, to remind the Chamber of our call to transform this from a merely intergovernmental body, as it is at present, into a Community agency, at the earliest opportunity – if one leaves out Europol, there are no less than four agencies operating in the ‘freedom, security and justice’ area, and that does not include the European Police College (CEPOL).
These four agencies are the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the European Agency for the Management of the External Borders and Eurojust.
Our rapporteur for the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the agencies, Mr&#160;Guidoni, is certainly aware that the agencies – and he said this a moment ago – are not always well received by some Members and the general public.
The recent echoes we have heard relating to the purchase of the two different office buildings in Strasbourg show that more information on the sub-letting of these buildings by the City of Strasbourg is definitely needed.
Moreover, I have been surprised to hear that the Mayor of Strasbourg has refused to answer the questions of the Vice-President of this House on this matter.
I wonder how the communication policy of the City of Strasbourg – usually so prompt, cautious and even pampering towards MEPs – changed so suddenly.
My second point is that I am the shadow rapporteur on the Mulder report on discharge for the Commission.
I should like to congratulate my colleague and friend, Mr&#160;Mulder, on an excellent report and I would like to point out that 80% of money misuse is still happening in the Member States.
Secondly, there are two issues at stake here: we need to look at what the administration of the European Parliament has done in the past 25 years, and we need to look at what the city of Strasbourg has done.
Thirdly, we need more information.
It is scandalous that we should be debating such an important matter as the discharge procedure at such a late hour after having had one-minute speeches on subjects such as whether Mr&#160;Prodi was a KGB agent.
The discharge procedure is an extremely important one.
There are a number of areas in which progress is being made.
Take, for example, the Integrated Administrative Control System within the agricultural sphere, in which a procedure has been set in motion that has in actual fact proved to be effective and that, into the bargain, has for the first time caused the Court of Auditors to write directly in its report that there has been significant progress in this area.
Finally, I want to say a few words about what has been closest to my own heart in this process, namely compliance with our demand for more transparency and openness.
Today, I am the shadow rapporteur and I would like to remind you, that last year Members of the European Parliament decided to retain three work places and to continue sessions in Strasbourg.
Each year, such work or its organisation costs the Community's citizens EUR 200 million.
The retention of the European Parliament Headquarters in Strasbourg is condemned to continue losing money until we give it up.
It is nothing new that there are economic subjects or persons, who commit fraud or even become corrupt.
But often they are encouraged to behave in this way by a monopoly situation, illogical laws or political decisions.
It is very important to ascertain whether there has been corruption or violations of laws and agreements, but it is far more important, honourable Members of Parliament, to finally make the decision to give up this unjustifiable, shameful waste of European people's money.
First of all, I should like to draw your attention to the amendments I have tabled in connection with the Mulder and Guidoni reports on the agency for reconstruction in the former Yugoslavia.
When we visited Kosovo with an delegation in February, we saw for ourselves the outstanding work that the reconstruction agency had carried out, and we should not simply disregard its expertise.
His draft report was even better than the report that was ultimately voted on by COCOBU, but it has to be said that there are new revelations which need investigating.
This means that ultimately, we will need to vote against his report and against the granting of discharge.
Holding Parliament’s plenary part-sessions in Strasbourg costs more than EUR 200 million.
Of that, some EUR 10&#160;million is spent on rent for the Salvador de Madariaga and Winston Churchill buildings.
Parliament receives 20% of all EU administrative expenditure for its own use.
The city of Strasbourg was therefore cashing in on the fact that Parliament had its premises in the city.
This situation is intolerable.
With that purpose in mind, we are prepared to reject Mr&#160;Ferber’s report and refer it back to the Committee for further deliberation.
Because of the new areas of confusion that have emerged, we ought to do the same with regard to the report on discharge for the Committee of the Regions drafted by Mr&#160;Lundgren. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I want to begin by thanking the officials who have helped me with the work on granting discharge.
If the EU institutions had had a clear willingness to investigate and to demand accountability and if the Committee on Budgetary Control had carried out its task properly and acted as the scrutinising body it is supposed to be, these things need not have happened.
It is, of course, also the case that responsibility for the administration cannot lie with the Commission alone but that the Council and the Member States also bear some responsibility.
There are a number of situations or cases in which I am unable to recommend granting discharge, simply because we would then be granting this in the dark.
Yesterday we were certain that everything was in order and we were ready to grant discharge, but in the course of the night we knew better.
It is of course by pure chance that we are now in a situation in which we must ask for the discharge to be postponed because we simply do not know enough.
It is of course quite odd that, for 25 years, both Parliament’s administration and our audit department have overlooked – at least they say they have done so – an extremely dubious payment to the city of Strasbourg.
This is, of course, in reality a payment to a quite superfluous middleman, and if anyone in our administration would have us believe they did not know this, I have to say that I do not believe that the administration is so incompetent.
What is more, it has to be asked whether it really is possible to enter into such financial agreements without carefully evaluating the various options and offers.
In that way you can always say that you did not know anything and so be free from liability.
As I say, we could have got away with granting discharge, but we are not going to grant it.
One wonders what is political about this debate: this is a matter of substance.
Sixty-one years after the end of the war, we are drifting towards the end of democracy and prosperity for large sections of the population in Europe, because we just let things slide, because the Anti-Fraud Commissioner Mr&#160;Kallas cannot implement the European transparency initiative about which he has been speaking because his hands are always tied, precisely because there is no more leadership in politics.
We need to make a new start – it is the only thing that can help Europe in this situation! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as shadow rapporteur for the agencies, I should like to thank the thoroughly competent rapporteurs for their expertise and their openness and, in particular, Mr&#160;Guidoni for his great ability to listen.
The first point I should like to make is that out of the 30 existing agencies only 14 are subject to our control.
Examples of this include the Environment Agency and the EUR&#160;906&#160;000 in taxes wrongly collected by the city of Copenhagen between 2000 and 2004, and the Translation Centre for the bodies of the EU and the disputed EUR&#160;7.5&#160;million – that is to say, a quarter of its annual budget – in respect of the payment of employers’ taxes.
All of the parties involved – Parliament’s services, the city of Strasbourg, the French and European monitoring bodies – must provide us with as much additional information as possible. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the risk of debates like this is always that Members start repeating what others have said.
It is a scandal that we are not having this debate at a time that would do justice to the importance of the reports that we are discussing.
The PSE Group has absolutely no problems with the report as it is presented right now.
I also agree with Mr&#160;Stubb that it is not a discussion about Strasbourg as our seat, but we all know that it will at some point become a discussion about our seat.
We should all keep cool heads, but my opinion about that latter issue is clear to everybody in this room that wants to know. &#160;&#160; – I would like to discuss the report on the agencies' budget implementation.
Therefore, I would like to propose that the European Court of Auditors debate the possibility of broadening its special annual reports on the agencies and of including in these a ‘cost-benefit’ analysis of the agencies' activities.
However, the heads of the agencies are not accountable to anyone, and in its answers to the European Court of Auditors' comments on faults found, the Commission points out that it can only help agencies to solve these problems, but the agencies themselves have to decide whether or not they will implement the auditors' recommendations.
I believe that they ought to be accountable to the appropriate committees in the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too wish to say a few words about the report on discharge for our own Parliament, the European Parliament.
The fact is that the report on discharge has had an airbrush applied to it, and a lot of the serious criticism of the pensions system has been removed.
This issue too must be investigated further in the course of the work that lies ahead. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the debate on the implementation of the 2004 budget, I would like to draw your attention to several issues regarding the auditing of budget implementation that in my opinion are key.
We have received a very extensive report from the European Court of Auditors.
This is due firstly to the fact that the information in the report from the Court of Auditors has a rather general character, because the Court investigates mainly the compliance of accounting entries, or what is known as ‘accounting reality’, and that, as life shows, is often at odds with objective reality.
Secondly, the post-audit findings of the Court often do not answer the most important questions in terms of evaluating the rational implementation of the budget.
Such questions include what funds are spent on, whether the goals set have really been met by means of these funds, whether there have been any misappropriations of funds, and, finally, whether any funds have been wasted.
Finding answers to these questions is essential in order to evaluate the implementation of the budget in a matter-of-fact manner.
The programme was supposed to provide financial support to European Union partner countries from Eastern Europe and Central Asia undergoing transformations.
It would appear, therefore, that the European Union needs a comprehensive system of expenditure auditing, with extensive involvement of the national auditing institutions in the Member States.
I have in my hand a letter from the Finance Minister in my region which admits that EU funds acquired for Northern Ireland are diverted instead directly into the UK central Exchequer and are thereby used to reduce the level of UK-wide taxation and borrowing that is then necessary.
I would therefore call for the regulation governing the new financial perspective from 2007 to expressly require Member States to demonstrate that true additionality is delivered to the regions in whose name funding is claimed from Europe.
This cheating of the regions has gone on for years.
On the subject of the 'Strasbourg lease scandal', I will just say a brief word: I greatly welcome the fact that the majority of Members, at least, have been able to separate this case from the more general discussion regarding the seat of Parliament. &#160;&#160; As regards the Committee of the Regions, I think that the adoption of the 2004 budget discharge is justified.
I appreciate the essentially positive and cooperative approach of the Committee of the Regions, manifested in the fact that it did not make any attempts to avoid or minimise its responsibility for the deficiencies uncovered in previous years and in the course of this year.
It is reassuring that due to work of the expert committee of our Parliament and to the partially excellent work of the rapporteur, the irregularities that have been found are already examined by the competent financial authorities.
I believe that a constructive approach would be more expedient: let us value the positive steps taken by the Committee of the Regions in answer to our earlier proposals, appreciate their cooperative attitude and give them a vote of confidence, trusting them to continue their work in a similar spirit, as we are preparing to do just that in respect of all the other institutions.
I would just like to add, in one final sentence, that my position regarding all the previously debated Strasbourg issues, too, is that our conclusions cannot not be based on feelings, but exclusively on facts. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I must begin by protesting at the nocturnal hour at which we are holding this debate and by thanking our Secretary-General, Julian Priestley, for being here.
I am sure that the City of Strasbourg will do what it must do to return the money, if its only arguments are really those expressed in this feeble press release that it has sent us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I congratulate Mr Mulder on his report, primarily because within this 2004 discharge he continues the momentum that we created in the 2003 discharge about national declarations.
The wording within those paragraphs is very significant, especially in paragraph 26, which mentions encouraging national parliaments to be involved in monitoring European Union funds.
I would hope that the Committee on Budgetary Control will pursue that and encourage our colleagues in national parliaments to have a real dialogue with us on this.
It would help if we could have some clarification from the Commissioner on that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the light of the serious allegations concerning the rent and purchase by the European Parliament of two buildings in Strasbourg, this House must emphasise that it is taking immediate steps to investigate these allegations in a prompt, rigorous and transparent manner.
This could have been avoided had the Budgetary Control Committee been informed about these allegations before adopting its report on the discharge of Parliament’s budget a month ago.
In the event, the Budgetary Control Committee adopted its report in blissful ignorance of what was going on.
So our immediate task is to investigate these matters urgently, thoroughly and transparently so as to ensure that the financial interests of the European Union, but also of European taxpayers, are adequately protected.
I can tell you that things sometimes appear in the press in Spain that are not really 100% true or which have been manipulated; therefore, since the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Legal Service — and quite rightly at this point, I believe — has advised us not to vote, since it was not our report, but rather plenary’s – since once we have voted for Mr&#160;Ferber’s report it becomes plenary’s report – I would ask the Members and Mr&#160;Ferber in particular — though I cannot see him in the Chamber at the moment — not to make us vote to discharge, when it does not really mean a discharge.
I would prefer it, therefore, Mr President, if possible, if Parliament’s services and my fellow Members could guarantee that possibility; that before voting no in a manner that could be interpreted as a badly prepared ‘no’, since we only received this information yesterday, we could prevent that by returning this report to the Committee on Budgetary Control, which would do its work again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 2006 must be the Commissioner’s lucky year!
Eleven years running with no positive statement of assurance, no signing off of the accounts by the Court of Auditors and barely a mention of this in this debate, which is much too short and exactly at the wrong time of the day for any interest from other Members of the European Parliament.
Then again, who can blame the City of Strasbourg for trying it on with the European Parliament?
We have hardly shown more than a passing interest in the way that we or other EU institutions spend EU taxpayers’ money.
Just look at the blasé attitude we take on how money is spent in the Committee of the Regions, where we have had two internal auditors report problems to us and our action was, and is, to do nothing.
For the last 27 years it seems we have failed to check whether we have been spending European taxpayers’ money properly.
I did this because my party at home simply did not believe that taxpayers’ money was being spent properly or accounted for properly.
I agree so far with the measures taken and I fully agree to the postponement of the report.
However, each of us, especially those who have served for more than one term here, should think about our actions or inaction in the past to properly check where money has been spent.
Commissioner Siim Kallas also deserves our thanks for his excellent cooperation with us in all areas, the best proof of which is the fact that he is still available to us at this very late hour for this important debate.
As a result of the current discharge procedure, we wish to take a further big step in the direction of the positive DAS formulated as our joint goal.
The fact that we are finally achieving this goal after eleven years is not only important to us, MEPs, the Commission and the Court of Auditors, but also to public opinion, and therefore to the reputation of the entire European institutional system.
While I value the results achieved in this area, in view of the most recent developments I must mention that in the case of Parliament, contrary to the original committee proposal, I must ask my fellow MEPs to postpone the discharge until we receive detailed, comprehensive answers to all questions that have been asked.
Tomorrow, Mr&#160;Mulder will, at my request, submit two oral amendments in which Parliament calls for a report on these accounts and for them to be audited and included in the balance sheet and the budget.
The fact that access to these accounts is unclear is a cause for concern, and I therefore call for a rapid explanation – more rapid than the Commission has managed in the past.
It would also be nice to know how many of these accounts there actually are.
We know – allegedly – how many of them were known about, but we do not know how many were completely unknown.
It would be interesting to find out why these accounts were not identified in the budget.
We have finished most of our work, but we are also saying very clearly that where there is a question that raises serious doubts, we will not simply say ‘Amen’, no matter how painful that may be to some.
We shall certainly find the truth in this dossier. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to add to Mr&#160;Wynn’s words of appreciation to Mr&#160;Mulder about his report on 2004.
Another point is Parliament’s discharge and the discussion that has come about surrounding Strasbourg.
It is common knowledge that the whole discussion surrounding the European budget in the Netherlands has been greatly influenced by the fact that we still have three locations where Parliament sits or has offices.
We are shocked by what has happened in Strasbourg.
Once again, this must be cleared up and I am convinced that our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Ferber, will succeed in this.
Neither should we blame some, and not others, but this is the time to make that choice, and that is also the reason why we, with regard to Mr&#160;Ferber’s part report, the Mulder report with regard to the purchase of real estate, take the view that even if the cost can be recovered in ten years’ time, this is not the right time, because we first want to force the Council into taking a decision. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, for a start, it is a disgrace that we are dealing with the discharge for 2004 at this time.
That is the official position of the Member States’ representatives and the Presidency.
I have promoted this idea and discussed the discharge and the integrated control framework several times in the Council.
In the last Council meeting, the ideas were clearly supported by three Member States and some of them have also declared their readiness to carry out some kind of pilot project or to start to share the responsibility immediately.
In answer to Mr Mulder’s question as to what we will do next: next will be the adoption of this interinstitutional agreement, then certain amendments to legislation, and then practical work to use this cooperation between Member States.
I clearly assure you that there are two separate issues.
Nobody wants to have any derogation as regards the evaluation of efficiency in accordance with the rules of fulfilling our programme.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; For years the European Union in general, and the European Commission in particular, have been strongly criticised for shortcomings in financial procedures by Member States.
That is why it is so important to oblige Member States to take their responsibilities more seriously, and I welcome the progress made on this point, notably thanks to the Parliament using its muscle during the negotiations with the Council on the new Financial Perspectives. &#160;&#160; I have serious concerns about the European budgetary procedures and no confidence in this system, but equally no evidence of wrongdoing or mishandling in the majority of cases.
There is much in the EU that needs reformed, but it is not all bad. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0106/2006) by Wolf Klinz, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on asset management (2006/2037(INI)). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after years of examining the asset management sector, the Commission, in August 2005, presented a Green Paper and asked for comments on it.
In the European Union alone, the total value of the sector’s investment assets last year amounted to over EUR&#160;4&#160;600 billion, which is something like EUR&#160;900&#160;billion more than in 2004.
This House’s Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has decided to respond to the Commission's Green Paper by producing an own-initiative report.
I also think it is worth considering the possibility of including funds of hedge funds.
The Commission appears to concur with this view.
What will also have a positive effect will be the industry’s own initiative and improved interaction on the part of the interested parties, particularly of the supervisory authorities.
The Commission has, for some considerable time, been considering whether the directive is capable of being adapted to market changes by means of individual measures or whether it is necessary to adopt a fundamentally new directive.
These people are citizens, and we in this House have an obligation to them.
The report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is a very incisive and balanced assessment of the main challenges before us.
This has served us well to date.
We need to try to make it more relevant to context of modern financial markets.
Beyond better implementation of existing rules, there will be a need to give those involved in the fund industry greater freedom of movement to enable them better to exploit commercial opportunities of the integrated fund market.
The report provides a very clear steer on the areas where change can be most beneficial: simplification of the notification procedure; measures to facilitate cross-border fund mergers and pooling.
I take note of the strong message from the European Parliament on the simplified prospectus for UCITS.
There is an even greater need for effective and comparable risk and costs disclosures.
We take to heart the strong message of the European Parliament on this issue.
These are increasingly powerful players in European financial markets.
However, we need a sophisticated regulatory engagement with these important players.
We will immediately set about translating these ideas into concrete initiatives.
The Commission believes that the UCITS Green Paper and the responses to it – including Parliament’s report – have underlined the importance of measured but effective action in this area.
We are now well poised to begin the task of translating these ideas into effective solutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, when addressing the issue of investment funds in the Union, one must include two vital elements.
The first consists of assessing the proactive role played by the undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) in the construction of a single market for financial services, a goal which has yet to be accomplished.
The second involves taking account of the now crucial role of collective management for all customers of financial services, which means virtually every EU citizen.
European legislation on investment funds has been in place for over 20 years and has proved its worth.
I would also call on the regulators meeting in the Committee of European Securities Regulators to take immediate action in line with the 2001 directives and not to wait for changes to the law.
The rapporteur has explained that several amendments of a legislative nature need to be made.
I should like, if I may, to finish by expressing my support for the rapporteur’s remarks about the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
We shall not be voting in favour of those amendments, and I regret that all of our efforts to reach a workable compromise were not accorded the value they merited. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today’s meeting was always on the cards because, when we debated the previous directive, we admitted that, as regards the definition of eligible assets for the investment of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS), we needed to adapt to the modern world and that the last text we adopted was, in that regard, not exactly ideal.
What we have, in other words, is a market with importing countries and exporting countries, and this is an important factor in how both sides might approach this work.
Let us not overlook the fact that this work has a purpose, albeit an increasingly complex one, and that is without doubt the most important factor in our meeting.
I should like, finally, to say a few words about supervision, as we are in a field in which the absence of a European regulator constitutes a major source of difficulty.
As a representative of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I believe competition policy is very important and would like to discuss matters which are extremely important from a competition point of view – financial asset management.
First of all, I would like to say that financial asset companies are broadening their activities in the new countries and we are getting to the stage where the products being sold are very similar.
Pension funds or an ordinary retail customer can evaluate the expenses and choose a better asset manager when these expenses are fully revealed.
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that financial asset companies should not be burdened with unnecessary restrictions.
It is often difficult for financial intermediaries working in small countries to avoid conflicts of interest.
Let us say, insurance companies and financial asset management companies are now selling very similar products.
However, financial asset management companies have to reveal a lot of information, whereas insurance companies reveal far less.
At times, the consumer is given the incorrect impression that insurance company products are cheaper or better.
I believe that this area also needs our attention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what we have here in front of us is a dual challenge.
First, we need to work towards a genuine single market for investment products.
Second, we have to make the European investment fund industry more globally competitive.
To this end, there are highly useful recommendations in Mr Klinz’s report.
Asset management is a key tool for Europe to be able to fund its soon-to-be-explosive pensions situation.
I strongly support the line taken in Mr Klinz’s report in favour of greater industry initiatives for creating an operational and consistent European model of fund management, to be backed up by regulatory convergence when necessary.
I find hedge funds, too, objectionable as a standard format for use by investment funds until such time as all the European supervisory authorities have agreed on rules to limit the risks involved in them.
The planned introduction of an EU-wide passport for asset management companies and of the EU passport for securities firms will make for more competition in cross-border business activities, and so, of course, the protection of asset management’s consumers and investors will become ever more important.
The demand for sound national consumer protection rules to prevent the distance marketing of financial services from degenerating into unfair competition and misleading advertising has also been rejected, and that, too, is a shame.
Not least, my demand for the mandatory provision of information prior to contracts being signed, and the amendments relating to the protection of investors, have been reduced to lowest-common-denominator compromises: what a pity, for a bit more would have been an improvement.
This leads me on to another issue to bring to the attention of Mr&#160;Klinz, whom I have experienced as much more amenable to dialogue in other contexts, but who has rejected outright the one amendment from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament that had to do with comitology.
If we were thinking in the longer term, that would be one issue on which we ought, even now, to be much closer to one another; perhaps we should talk a bit more about it, for we do, after all, still have until tomorrow to do so, but it is a pity, for the EU, being the world’s greatest single source of legislation on financial instruments, could play a leading role or at least ensure a level playing field in the EEA (European Economic Area) – here, too, a bit more would have been an improvement.
After all, it is deplorable, in my view, that the Commission, one week before we in this House vote on our position and our recommendations, is already presenting proposals, albeit at draft stage.
In my opinion, if we consider each other to be allies in the fight for a stronger economy, we must also cooperate and respect each other accordingly.
I therefore take it as read that even if we table proposals at this stage, they will simply be taken into consideration.
The central message of the report, which it is to be hoped we will adopt tomorrow, is that state aid should remain an exception.
It is far more important to create favourable conditions for innovation, experimenting, taking risks and, above all, investing.
That means that we need to work on a sound patent regime, fair competition and free trade in the internal market, and in this connection it is regrettable – I should like to say this once again – that we failed to actually open up the market for services.
We must work on immigration policy in a bid to help Europe hold onto the best forces and attract talent from outside.
Moreover, an interesting example in this context is the fact that today, the government of one of the big Member States announced a new injection of EUR 600 million for innovation – which is very welcome in itself – but that on this very same day, the OECD issued a rather critical report of the results of the previous aid programme of that selfsame big Member State.
I am delighted that in the Commission’s proposals, as in Parliament’s forthcoming recommendations, reference is also made to non-technological innovation, because that is without a doubt a crucial development in our services economy.
When we met yesterday, I expressed my concern about what is known as the matching clause.
Large enterprises are another potential subject for discussion, and, although I see that there are all kinds of precautionary measures to prevent us from subsidising individual large enterprises, I can still see one small cause for concern.
As you know, it is essential to have the right rules in order to help Member States use state aid tools in a targeted and prudent way in support of our shared goals of growth and jobs.
We emphasise – as Mrs in 't Veld rightly mentioned – that state aid is just one instrument among the many policy tools available to promote innovation in our economy.
I could not agree more with Mrs in 't Veld on the key importance of structural reforms.
In line with what Mrs in 't Veld said, we propose measures to support risk-taking and experimentation, as well as the business environment for innovation.
Mrs in 't Veld, your report is of high quality and strikes a good balance.
My services have just sent the Member States a first working document on the new rules.
It will be revised and refined in the light of the comments we receive, including your comments and thoughts.
I hope to finalise the new framework for research, development and innovation this autumn.
The report clearly formulates the basic principles underpinning the grant of aid for innovation and specifies the groups to which such grants can be made.
Fortunately, two of those have already been debated today, so we should be able to agree on the substance.
I should also like to make a point of mentioning non-technological innovation again, and my third and final point is that there is a need for more clarity about the way in which state aid applies to universities and research institutes. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s initiative to review State aid for innovation is, broadly speaking, a positive and timely one.
Innovation is one of the key instruments in revitalising the EU’s international competitiveness and in implementing the objectives of growth and employment set out in Lisbon.
This requires conciliation with competition policy and with the functioning of the internal market, which is not always easy.
The huge imbalances that still exist between European countries and regions can, moreover, lead to major differences in the quality and amount of aid.
Companies and institutions from the outermost regions should not be barred access to the Europe of knowledge and innovation.
We therefore hope that the concerns of Europe’s citizens expressed by their representatives in this Chamber are accorded due attention by the Commission, in spite of the reports that have emerged and that have been mentioned by previous speakers.
The report before us is the result of conciliation and constructive negotiation at Parliament level.
The perception of risk and unbalanced information often alienates private investment in some of the bigger projects and the role of public investment cannot be replaced in this case.
Lastly, Parliament should pay particular attention to the competitiveness of European producers on the world stage in relation to State aid awarded by third countries to new competitors in various industrial sectors.
The second of these two closing themes concerns the need to combine State aid for innovation with cohesion policy more consistently, in order to ensure that we are not in fact building a two-tier Europe as regards the Lisbon Strategy.
In particular, I support the rapporteur where she asks that the Commission take into account state aid granted by the EU’s international competitors.
The state aid action plan says that we need to maintain a level playing field for all companies active in the single market.
We would also see greater employment and economic growth: all the things this place says it wants to achieve but will never learn how to achieve. &#160;&#160; Mr President, after listening to the rapporteur, the Commissioner and our shadow rapporteur, I must admit that tonight I feel a little bit ‘Netherlandish’.
The most important thing for the Commission to do is to uphold competition and to be strong in defending small companies and small entrepreneurs.
I would like to underline that the policy of state aid must aim for less, but better, targeted aid.
Promoting innovation is necessary in order to achieve the convergence of the least-favoured regions and cross-border cooperation.
Regional aid and innovation must be complementary; its incentives must be organised in such a way as to prevent distorting effects.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for her report, which has allowed us to move forward on these issues, and I hope that we can still achieve new consensus in plenary. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to our discussions even at this late hour, as SMEs are the mainstay of the entire European economy, and deserve our attention.
I&#160;have pointed out earlier, at the time of Edit Herzog’s report into the effects of globalisation on the internal market, the need to create a&#160;sound environment for SMEs by giving them access to finance and to risk capital, particularly in the early stages of their development.
I&#160;would like to thank the rapporteur in 't Veld for drawing attention to the additional use of risk capital as an external long-term source of funding for companies.
In this way we can improve the competitiveness of our national economies and of the European single market as a&#160;whole.
This report is an important signal to the business community that the European Parliament wants to create a&#160;stimulating entrepreneurial environment for small and medium-sized start-ups with innovative ideas but without the financial resources to carry out their plans.
In this way we will provide them with a&#160;promising future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like firstly to thank the rapporteur for her work, which has been really excellent, and congratulate her, as well as the coordinators who have acted as shadow rapporteurs for the main groups.
Nevertheless — and this is what I would like to add — State aid is also effective; it is effective in many cases, in order to create employment, in order to create well-being for great numbers of European citizens.
The points raised in the report by my colleague justify the very strong link between this lack of innovation and our inability to maintain the targets set in the Lisbon Strategy.
The Commission will do its utmost to improve framework conditions.
Mrs in 't Veld asked why we are suggesting a focus on cooperation between companies and between Member States.
The second reason is that we must also encourage improvement of the internal market.
A couple of speakers mentioned the question of large companies’ eligibility for state aid for innovation, particularly in part of the clusters.
However, I would like to be clear that if we go down this route there will need to be proper checks and balances to prevent distortion of competition and to ensure that the overall effect, for example the benefits generated by collaboration, is positive.
Therefore it is an instrument to foster and to bring into a situation where everyone has an opportunity to make his living in a way in which innovation is involved.
I have heard all too often the argument that our state aid rules could reduce investment into Europe as third countries may offer subsidies more liberally than Member States.
As Mrs in 't Veld and Mr Casa said, there are other factors influencing inward investment positions.
However, I am ready to look further at whether the new framework could include criteria for assessing the effects of aid granted elsewhere.
As you are aware, personally I am not a fan of a matching clause.
I have to consider it as an option in response to comments I have heard from several stakeholders and I will look at it, but I am personally not in favour of this instrument.
There could be a reaction and in this context we introduce the possibility of a new category of aid which can be granted to support start-ups in addition to regional investment aid.
At the end of the day it is only through a positive partnership and a complete range of pro-innovation policies that we will be able to deliver growth in jobs in the European Union.
Thank you for your support, thank you for your valuable contribution to this process, and thank you to Mrs in ‘t Veld and her shadow rapporteur for their work. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; This report is an important step towards the development of an appropriate framework to foster innovation and competitiveness in the EU.
The challenge is to establish an appropriate reform of the state aid policy in order to better contribute to innovation, sustainable growth, socio-economic cohesion and environmental protection while avoiding excessive competition distortions.
State aid may be an effective instrument to address market failures but only if allocations are made according to open, transparent and non-discriminatory criteria.
