In the meantime, more than 12 months have elapsed since first reading in Parliament and so far we still do not have single united standpoint.
In my view maritime policy has to achieve at least four things regarding climate protection: inclusion of maritime transport in emissions trading - now, not whenever; a radical reduction in pollutant emissions - CO2, SO2 and NOX; and use of regenerative energies such as wind and solar energy.
When we declare 20 May European Maritime Day after the vote this afternoon, I hope that we will be able to say on 20 May next year: we have achieved a great deal in the meantime.
It is also thanks to Parliament, and, in particular, President Pöttering, who will be hosting the signing of a joint tripartite declaration, establishing European Maritime Day, later today.
Let me also thank the different committee rapporteurs and the many other distinguished Members of Parliament who have been particularly involved, throughout the last two years, in building the Parliament's contribution to this emerging European policy.
The Commission also welcomes the recognition by the European Parliament of the importance of maritime transport to the European economy and Parliament's support for a common maritime transport area, for the development of the motorways of the sea and short sea shipping: all projects which the Commission is pushing forward.
We have taken a number of steps in this direction since the adoption of the 'Blue Paper' such as the adoption of a communication on the ecosystem approach in April 2008, and two proposals on discards, which will be ready by the end of this year.
We look forward to continuing our close dialogue with you in the months ahead in the interest of implementing the integrated maritime policy for the Union, and also count on your support to engage, in particular, the European maritime regions during Maritime Day 2009.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we congratulate the European Commission on its communication on an integrated maritime policy for the European Union and on the proposal for an action plan establishing the first steps aimed at implementing that policy.
Above all, the Committee on Regional Development hopes that the integrated maritime policy will have a very positive impact on the development and protection of the EU's coastal regions, islands and outermost regions.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Piecyk.
I am in all honesty a little disappointed.
The second point concerns the issue of marine monitoring.
We not only need to strengthen FRONTEX - which address illegal immigration - but we also need a European coastguard.
Mr Commissioner, will the Commission be putting forward a proposal on the coast guard in this parliamentary term or not?
The expansion of the TEN-T network refers to maritime corridors.
I also request the Commission to draft a plan of concrete actions for the protection of delta and estuary areas and here I particularly refer to the Danube Delta.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to congratulate Mr Piecyk on an excellent report.
It has a very strong social dimension, which we must bear in mind when we talk of restructuring this industry, and when we talk of what to do with those people who make their living at sea and from the sea.
I would also like to stress a point that has arisen in this discussion, which is that we always treat our work and our discussion as a sort of contents list and prompt for the Commission.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would first like to congratulate Willi Piecyk on his report.
I would point out that Article 5 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic lays down that the State may not alienate any part of the Portuguese territory or of the sovereign rights it exercises over it - and that includes rights to adjacent sea beds.
In particular, I am referring to the problems associated with illegal immigration, terrorism and smuggling, which occur along the full 320 000 kilometres of European coastline.
Cooperation between them and the countries from which these illegal activities originate absolutely must be implemented as quickly as possible.
The sector is in crisis structurally as much as economically.
Fewer and fewer people are going into a career in fishing because of the constraints on the profession.
The energy of our belief in the potential of this initiative must not be expended on halfway measures or the mere mouthing of generous-sounding ideas which are basically much less ambitious than we would like.
Our road to success will entail: decisive investment in blue technologies; promoting a network of maritime clusters to develop best practices and the most advanced technologies; making the most of the sea in the fight against climate change and in using it as a source of renewable energy; promoting maritime transport and coastal tourism; acknowledging the maritime regions, in particular the outermost regions and their importance in security and protection against illegal immigration, trafficking, smuggling and terrorist threats.
I just wonder whether the European Commission and this Parliament will be able to rise to their own challenge. (FR) Madam President, one of the aims of the first European Maritime Day we are celebrating today is to buff up the image of the maritime occupations by restoring their future prospects.
The European Union can and must act in this area by supporting restructuring and encouraging the introduction of cleaner-burning, more fuel-efficient vessels.
Any EU policy should assist maritime nations in achieving their objectives such as by funding research, by facilitating development of new routes for transporting goods and passengers, supporting energy interconnectors, improving safety on vessels and energy efficiency.
Can I quote from Article 34 of the Piecyk report, which says 'the integrated maritime policy for the European Union should be developed in such a way as to avoid failings in the CFP such as over-centralisation'?
We have certainly come a long way and I think we owe the congratulations of this House to the Commissioner, but also to Willi Piecyk, for the hard work and efforts that they have all contributed towards achieving this objective.
If you take into account all of our coastal and outermost regions, we have got over 320 000 km of coastline, home to a third of our EU total population.
Critics always try to blame the fishermen for over-exploitation of our marine resources, but global warming, environmental pollution and many other factors have also played a part.
Secondly, as a result of this report, the shipyard workers of Szczecin and Gdynia, and also of Malta and other countries, will be pinning great hopes on the new maritime policy.
Over the last 10 years 3 200 sailors have been kidnapped, 500 have been injured and 160 killed in this type of attack.
For that very reason this report stresses the need for research and innovation to play a central role in boosting regional development potential to support all those activities concerned and affected, either directly or indirectly, by maritime policy.
There are no problems with a fully integrated approach there and I would challenge the Commission to do that as soon as possible. (PL) Maritime transport and ports and shipyards are rather forgotten sectors, although they have considerable growth potential.
Let us therefore give shipyards a chance to develop, including those in Gdynia, Gdańsk and Szczecin.
It had to be that way, since our coastline is 70 000 kilometres long, or three times the length of Africa's coastline.
The maritime approaches to the Union are shared with countries which are not Member States.
Many speakers raised the point that we have not gone far enough in our proposals and that we could and should have been even more ambitious.
With regard to the fuel price increases, let me reiterate that this is certainly not due to any measures taken by Brussels, but it is an international problem and it is a new reality.
We have just reached agreement in fact with France in this regard and I am sure that details of this agreement will be made public in the coming days.
However, I can assure you that the Commission's commitment to push forward this new policy hand in hand with Parliament in particular and with the Member States and stakeholders is guaranteed.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, this is unfortunately the problem in the end.
I would first like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate.
Commissioner, you have heard: the Commission has Parliament's full support to proceed a little more boldly, a little more energetically.
A great deal of research and funds are therefore required from Europeans in order to learn more about the seas, and if we now bring these into being in connection with the European Maritime Day, we have done something good.
in writing. - We in Europe must do our best to ensure that an effective maritime policy is in place which protects and pays sufficient attention to maritime issues.
This means that increased cooperation with seafaring third countries is necessary.
This is a trend that is characteristic of all EU policies.
