These decisions will pave the way for a further enlarged European Union, as well as a further strengthening of policy areas that are of crucial importance for effective action by the European Union on the challenges facing the world of today and tomorrow.
In its regular reports in October, the Commission concluded that both countries should be ready to assume all membership obligations by 1&#160;January&#160;2007 and could sign the Accession Treaty early in 2005.
The accession negotiations with both countries were formally concluded at the accession conferences yesterday.
At the same time, Bulgaria and Romania will be encouraged to maintain the pace of their reforms until the time of accession.
Close monitoring by the Commission will assist them in their preparations for accession.
On Croatia, the European Council is expected to welcome its progress in preparing for the opening of accession negotiations, but also to urge Croatia to take the necessary steps for full cooperation with ICTY.
On the basis of this assessment, the European Council is expected to take a decision as to whether to start accession negotiations with Turkey, while also providing for a framework for these negotiations.
Member States will exchange information from criminal records, Europol and Eurojust will be better informed by Member States concerning terrorist offences and there will be closer cooperation with selected third countries.
I also mention the Hague Programme on freedom, security and justice, adopted by the European Council on 5&#160;November, which in the coming years will contribute substantially to the fight against terrorism.
The EU remains vulnerable and there is still much work to be done in implementing the EU Action Plan.
In the next six months the EU will therefore continue its efforts.
The Multiannual Strategic Programme 2004-2006 issued a clear mandate to the Netherlands presidency to take a decision on principles and guidelines in order to enable the EU to achieve political agreement on the financial perspectives by June 2005.
An important part of this report is the 'building blocks', which have provided a useful structure for the discussions and have contributed to the process of moving towards a consensus according to the established time frame.
The result of this approach is an analysis and a clear picture of the positions of Member States in relation to policy content and financial implications.
The strategy will be a key instrument to confront drug use and trafficking effectively with a view to ensuring a high level of health protection, wellbeing and social cohesion, as well as a high level of security for the general public.
The European Council will welcome the progress made under the Netherlands presidency in the field of immigration and integration.
Moreover, the need for common basic principles on integration, clear goals and means of evaluation mechanisms, and greater coordination of national integration policies and EU initiatives in this field is also underlined in the Hague Programme.
In the field of external relations the European Council will discuss four issues.
I am glad that the parties concerned have reached an agreement on reform of the election laws and on a modification of the Constitution.
We have seen that these changes have brought the Ukrainians a little closer to each other.
We should now focus all our attention on the election process; because our goal remains free and fair elections, without external interference, where the Ukrainian people can be certain that the election results reflect their will.
The second subject to be discussed is the Middle East peace process.
Of course, in the short term attention will have to go primarily to the preparations for the Palestinian presidential elections.
Thirdly, the European security strategy was adopted a year ago and the European Council will mark that.
In the area of key threats and increasing the security in our common neighbourhood, the EU has achieved quite a lot.
For the implementation of the security strategy, relations with the US remain of vital importance and therefore ministers will discuss how we can further strengthen our transatlantic relationship.
Fourthly, the European Council will also have a discussion with Kofi Annan, who will elaborate on a number of elements of the high-level panel's report.
The European Council will also underline that the focus on the poorest should be increased, in particular in Africa.
The European Council will also discuss the UN high-level event in September 2005, when the world community will take stock of progress made towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
Apart from the main themes on the agenda of the European Council, other issues to be addressed are commonly shared values, consular cooperation, the EU Human Rights Agency and the European External Action Service.
On commonly shared values, the European Council will note with approval the series of public debates hosted by the Netherlands presidency, engaging participants with wide-ranging backgrounds and experience on the European identity and the concept of commonly shared values as the foundation of European integration and cooperation.
With a view to enhancing the coherence and consistency of EU human rights policy, the European Council is expected to call for effective follow-up to the December 2003 decision to establish an EU Human Rights Agency.
On the European External Action Service, the European Council will invite the Secretary-General/High Representative, together with the Commission, to prepare a progress report on this preparatory work and to take appropriate steps to keep the European Parliament informed.
It will be an important meeting, marking the next steps in the process of building a larger, more prosperous and safer European Union.
Let me comment briefly on three issues: enlargement, the fight against terrorism and the financial perspectives.
Firstly, our policy of enlargement of the Union has been the key in freeing us from our cold war past.
Your House has been instrumental in supporting this process, but our enlargement is still incomplete.
Indeed, this negotiating process was closed yesterday, thanks to the increased efforts by the European Union and by these two countries.
I congratulate the Netherlands presidency for its excellent work and close cooperation with the Commission on that particular subject.
The main message in the Commission’s assessment is that Turkey has sufficiently fulfilled the Copenhagen political criteria and that accession negotiations should now be opened.
Turkey has made further progress in the last weeks.
It is now time for the European Council to honour its commitment to Turkey and announce the opening of accession negotiations.
The objective of starting negotiations cannot be other than accession but we accept that the accession process is open-ended and its outcome cannot be guaranteed beforehand.
But let me state what our ultimate challenge will be: in the end, we need not only to overcome diplomatic obstacles, but also to conquer the hearts and minds of European citizens on this issue.
Croatia represents the first of the Western Balkan nations preparing to start the process for accession to the Union.
The Commission is ready to support the launch of such negotiations, but believes that any progress should be conditional on increased cooperation between the Croatian Government and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
I hope that at the end of the week we will reach further agreements on how terrorism can be fought.
We must show our unwavering determination, but we must never lose sight of the democratic and legal principles which are at the very basis of our society and our prosperity.
The discussions at the summit will also take stock of the situation regarding the Financial Perspectives for 2007-2013.
The current ceiling for own resources remains in place despite new requests to the EU due to the enlargement and to the development of new policies.
Of course, we must ensure discipline in the budgetary process, but this cannot be achieved by setting arbitrary limits, without reference to what the budget aims to achieve.
I am aware that some Member States remain convinced that the EU budget should be limited to 1% of gross national revenue.
Let me state this to you clearly: we cannot have more Europe with less money and a union ceases to be a union if the objective of cohesion is forgotten.
The Commission’s position is therefore clear: our starting point is the package submitted in February of last year.
I sincerely hope that the Luxembourg Presidency will be able to drive this process forward and ensure that effective negotiations go ahead, because it is important that we respect the timetable established in the Council’s multiannual strategic programme.
This means that we must reach a political agreement in June of next year.
In the short time between the confirmation of the new Commission and the forthcoming European Council, we will have seen important developments both internationally – in particular in Ukraine – and for the Union.
With the decisions on enlargement and security that the European Council will take this week, we are showing in practical ways our confidence in the future of our continent.
We are showing how we can succeed in projecting the values that we hold dear into the international arena and extending the ring of prosperity, solidarity and security further across our continent and the world. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, as with all European Councils, the next one has some very interesting topics to discuss.
The Council services tell us that the Council is to discuss the Middle East, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, the Mediterranean Partnership and, I should add, probably the situation in Ukraine, Darfur, relations with China and Russia and even Transatlantic relations.
It is crucial that we speak about the Lisbon Strategy, about combating drugs or AIDS, about the new neighbourhood policy and about sustainable development.
The President of the Commission, Mr&#160;Barroso, has frequently told us of his ‘blind dates’, which have attracted the particular interest of this House.
Zagreb may well look European, and so does Istanbul, but this is not the issue at stake; what is at stake, and this is a point I should like to repeat, is whether we are in a position to define what Mr&#160;Eurlings gave a precise description of in his report, namely that the European Union is a community of values – a political community of values – and that it is based on the Constitution with which we have endowed ourselves and on the Charter of Fundamental Rights we have enshrined in the Constitution.
This community of values is open to everyone who shares these values, without any kind of cultural relativity, and this is a point I should like to reiterate once again.
I believe that there is a direct connection between this issue and the question of whether we will manage to disprove the theory that the Islam of the most dangerous terrorists currently active, the Islamic fundamentalists, which they describe as the only Islam, and the order of values I referred to a moment ago are mutually exclusive.
I believe that the mere opening of negotiations with Turkey, a step which also means that Turkey is prepared to submit to the Constitution and its rules, is evidence that the implementation of a secular social reality is not linked in any way to religion, but instead to the political will of a people.
This is the crucial point, and this is an important contribution to the fight against terrorism.
I therefore believe that the debate on Turkey and the debate on the fight against terrorism are two sides of the same coin.
During yesterday’s preparations for today’s debate, we too discussed Romania and Bulgaria, and developments in both these countries.
We only hope that Mr&#160;Basescu has a sufficient sense of responsibility, something which he did not demonstrate during the election campaign, not to enter into coalitions with parties in his country which are opposed to the European Union and which ride roughshod over our fundamental values.
You may be sure, Mr&#160;Watson, that we will continue to observe Romania as closely as you have done to date, particularly with regard to the issue of whether the future Romanian President forms a coalition with the extreme right.
On behalf of our group, I should like to say – and I also address these words to the Dutch Presidency – that the European Union has provided an enormous amount of support throughout what has been going on in Ukraine over recent weeks, which represents a fundamental shift in the internal political situation towards democracy, freedom and human rights.
It was the EU that acted as mediator in the country, and I believe that the staunch support of all those concerned, including the Dutch Presidency, has made it possible to achieve progress which will result in a greater degree of democracy, and which has proven that a united European Union, combining its forces and deploying them jointly, can make a genuine contribution to international politics.
A majority of the members of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe believe that Turkey fulfils the political criteria and that you should open negotiations.
I pay tribute to the work of Mr Eurlings in drawing up the report on Turkey for this House; a report which I think commands widespread support.
I also recommend to the Council that we have a discussion in our Union about the European Union's capacity to absorb new Member States, particularly countries beyond those which currently have candidate status.
I recommend that we have a discussion on the nature of the European Union, because it is our vision of the European Union that will determine its borders, rather than our vision of countries wishing to join.
My Group has long believed that these two countries – and indeed others – should have separate accession treaties.
For me, the election results this week give cause for hope.
I say to my friend Mr Schulz: for heaven's sake stop defending corrupt socialist regimes, whether in the Maldives, the Seychelles or in Romania.
You need promptly to put into practice measures that have been identified in the Hague Programme relevant to combating terrorism, in particular, measures relating to exchange of information between Member States.
Efforts to combat terrorism must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and the Council must stress the importance of promoting respect based on universal values, tolerance, dialogue and democratic participation.
We need to move the European Union from being simply an economic community into seeing itself as a community of values.
It seems to my Group that we need to give the European Union the resources it needs.
While, as a Scot, I welcome the approach of my soulmates in the Netherlands to the financing of the Union, I believe that the Council must give the Union the resources it needs.
Operation 'Althea' is working successfully and three other ongoing missions are examples of solid progress.
Let the Union's voice be heard in our neighbourhood policy and in our relations with China, the United States and Russia.
Although the headline of the forthcoming European Council may be Turkey – and we should expect no less for a pillar of European civilisation – beyond the headlines there is much important work to do in foreign and security policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have never made use of this Rule before, but I would ask to be allowed the following clarification.
I am also astonished at the emotional fervour, or in some cases even political blindness, with which debates relating to Turkey are conducted.
It is entirely normal for worthy arguments to exist both for and against such an accession, and yet I am perplexed by the level of aggressiveness of those who are opposed to Turkey joining the EU.
The basis for racism is always irrationality, and I cannot help but think that certain arguments against Turkey’s accession are not political, but purely cultural, or, in other words, racist.
Mr Poettering has told this House that this is the most important decision to be taken by the European Parliament and by Europe in recent years, and that, as it is so important, we should take the decision in utmost secrecy, so that everyone is left in the dark with regard to how we have reached our position on this important issue.
I shall say what I wish to say, and you may say what you wish to say.
I should like to make one more remark on Romania.
We therefore call on the Romanian Parliament to take us seriously.
Romania should be accepted into the EU, but only after it has met the Copenhagen criteria.
Accession to the EU represents a major opportunity for Turkey, as there is still a need for the values it represents, such as the rule of law, democracy and human rights, to gain acceptance there.
There is therefore an urgent need for the negotiations to be conducted transparently, and for the democratic changes necessary in Turkey to be spelled out.
This is particularly true in the case of the violent clashes in the Kurdish regions, and I would call on the Kurds and the Turkish armed forces to reach a ceasefire and to seek a political solution.
I am extremely concerned at the increase in human rights violations and homicides, for example the case of the 12-year-old Urud and his father, as well as the new proceedings which have been initiated with the aim of banning the Union of Education and Science Workers.
If there are to be accession negotiations, it would be up to Turkey to demonstrate, by means of a genuine implementation of its reform plans, that all Turkish citizens, regardless of their origin, are accorded the same rights, that there is equality of the sexes and that certain religions are no longer discriminated against in favour of others.
Last weekend thousands of people demonstrated in Diyarbakir for the opening of accession negotiations.
As a German MEP of Kurdish origin, I should like to join my group in calling for accession negotiations with Turkey to be opened, and we call on all Heads of Government to make known, on 17&#160;December, their support for the opening of accession negotiations.
Turkey can act as a bridge between the EU and Islamic countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to make my point of order just as Mr Schulz made his.
It is bound to create the kind of tensions and inflame the passions that we have seen not only here this morning, but also in our debate yesterday.
The Commission has laid out a very clear blueprint of how much has been achieved and what has yet to be done before we reach the final hurdle.
But we have also demanded that Turkey should fulfil its responsibilities and duties.
I would remind you of the valiant positions taken up in France on the Turkey issue by Robert Badinter, Hubert Védrine and the former Socialist Education Minister, Claude Allègre, all of whom have cautioned us about the disastrous consequences of Turkey’s possible accession.
That is what is reported by the former European Commissioner for the Internal Market, Mr Bolkestein, who was the only person with the courage to tell Mr&#160;Prodi that he refused to approve the positive Commission recommendation of 6 October.
Three minutes to decide whether we move the hotbeds of conflict in the Caucasus and the Middle East to Europe’s boundaries.
Three minutes to decide whether we allow a country, where human rights in general and women’s rights in particular are violated on a large scale, entry into our Union as a so-called model secular state and straight away give them the largest number of votes in the Council.
Three minutes to give the go-ahead to a country that refuses to recognise another Member State and occupies part of that Member State with 30&#160;000 troops after having committed untold crimes against humanity.
Three minutes to give the go-ahead to a country where the state’s denial of the Armenian genocide is organised by the Ministry of Education, while nobody in Europe utters a word about this.
I ask you, Europe, where are your grand principles? &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are at an important crossroads here in this House and the key issue these days – not only in politics, but also among the public – is, of course, the possible start of negotiations with Turkey.
On the one hand, there is a great deal of progress, and impressive progress too; on the other, Turkey is still trailing behind quite a bit if we were to compare that country with a country that really wants to become a Member of the European Union.
That is why reforms have to continue in the areas of human rights, women’s rights and religious freedom.
Indeed, the Turkish media and Turkish journalists urge us to use the stick and carrot approach and keep up the pressure.
I shall read out a few sentences in English, because I have the English text in front of me. 'Considers that the opening of accession negotiations is to be recommended so long as it is agreed that, in the first phase of the negotiations, priority is given to the full implementation of the political criteria; that therefore the agenda of negotiations at ministerial level will start with the assessment of the fulfilment of the political criteria, especially in the area of human rights and full fundamental freedoms in both theory and practice, in the meantime opening up the opportunity to put other chapters on the agenda of the negotiations;' I think that this emphasis on the political criteria is necessary, because not everyone in Turkey realises that the reforms will need to be carried out consistently if the country really wants to qualify for membership of the European Union.
I think that these further reforms will determine whether or not Turkey will be able to do this.
My final remark concerns terrorism.
As regards the remainder of the foreign reports, I agree with much of what Mr&#160;Nicolaï said and I should like to express our agreement on all the measures that bring forward constitutional reforms.
The initiative should, however, be supported by more substantial instruments, which are foreseen in the Constitution but which might perhaps be brought forward.
As regards human rights and democracy, I recommend that we negotiate a proper convention with our neighbouring countries.
To that end, this issue will have to be placed at the heart of the relationship between the European Union and the United States.
Finally, I call on the Council and the Commission to devote attention also to the situation in Cambodia, where there is a humanitarian emergency concerning children. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Dutch Presidency is nearly at an end.
A second topic addressed during the Dutch Presidency was the so-called Hague decisions about terrorism and combating crime.
The agreements reached in The Hague illustrate that the European Union and the Council too – at long last – consider the fight against terrorism and crime as one of their priorities.
At the same time, a balance has been struck between an effective approach and extra legal scope on the one hand and the protection of personal data and fundamental freedoms on the other.
I congratulate Mr Nicolaï on the inclusion in the agenda of the need for good communication about European integration.
It is only by frequent communication and a constant dialogue with the citizen, not only by the Members of this House, but also by the members of the Commission and the Council, that this gap can be bridged.
I should like to finish off with a remark about the debate about standards and values with which this presidency started.
In short, it is a debate about where our foundations lie.
I think that Mr Balkenende’s article in of 7 December was excellent; one of his conclusions was that the Union is about dynamic values.
On a final note, the presidency has definitely brought the European Union closer to the Dutch people and even to members of the Dutch parliament.
At the summit, I hope that you will really take the time to discuss at length the kind of Europe that you have in mind, before you pass this subject back to the specialist ministers.
With regard to terrorism, the draft conclusions of the forthcoming summit state that we, in our efforts to fight terrorism, must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It seems almost inappropriate to ask critical questions about the effectiveness or the legitimacy of measures against terrorism.
At least in defence purchases, politicians always independently weigh up costs and benefits.
Where measures to fight terrorism are concerned, though, almost nobody dares make this critical assessment.
The Dutch Presidency has pledged to try to emphasise the implementation of the clause in the Constitution on the basis of which the Member States will have public meetings henceforth – after all, they were all agreed on this when the Constitution was signed – or at least hold more of them in public.
We will then be able to see in all openness what is going on, and it will be possible for ministers to be held responsible for the decisions taken, as we today are keen to be held responsible for the decision we are taking on Turkey. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions of the summit of the European Union to be held on 16 and 17 December are so important that they determine to a significant degree the physiognomy of the European Union.
We expect such prospects to bind any country pursuing such prospects within a minimum framework of obligations pertaining to basic issues which apply to the other Member States, such as fundamental freedoms, civil rights and workers' rights, without of course harbouring any illusions.
To close, I wish to condemn the arrogant conduct of the Turkish leadership and its government when, in the statements it makes, the impression is given that it is the European Union which is asking for Turkey to join and not Turkey which is asking to join the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, nothing could show Mr Barroso's contempt for this Parliament more than the fact that he could only attend this debate for a few minutes before disappearing.
This means that Turkey is costing us as much as the ten countries that acceded to this Union this year.
Seventy per cent inflation during the passage of the Maastricht Treaty would have caused some raising of eyebrows, but it is just a political project here, is it not?
The fight against terrorism is closely linked to the development of the Middle East peace process and the situation in certain countries where conflicts are not yet over.
I am not the only one who feels that the Council is working without any kind of serious vision and without any long-term strategy, that it lurches from one event to another, and that it merely reacts to problems without any long-term plan of how it should act to avoid them.
Much is now being said by the Council on the subject of Ukraine, and many of its comments are entirely relevant.
An increase of EUR&#160;114&#160;billion over seven years will promote the development of both the EU and the new Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the meeting of the European Council later this week is of historic significance, primarily because of the fundamental issue of the opening of negotiations with Turkey on future membership of the EU.
There are very strongly held views on this issue across this Parliament and beyond.
However, the policy of my party is clear: we believe that in the right circumstances Turkish membership of the Union could be good for Europe, good for Turkey and good for relations with the Islamic world and security in our societies.
Earlier this week the Socialist Group expressed concern at the neo-liberal nature of the new Commission.
The outdated social model so beloved of the left is to be replaced with a vigorous, dynamic and radical reform programme.
If the Commission acts in this way, it will get the full support of British Conservatives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the next European Council is not just going to give its opinion on Turkey and other issues, but also – as Mr&#160;Nicolaï has mentioned – on the broad guidelines for the next financial perspectives.
This instrument is so important that it appears as a law in the future Constitution.
Mr Barroso said a moment ago that the Commission’s proposal is a starting point for negotiations of the financial perspectives.
In that way, that starting point could also become a finishing point and the Commission would thereby respond to that expression that we mention so often: we cannot create more Europe with fewer resources.
Fourthly, we are in the middle of the process of ratifying the European Constitution and the citizens sometimes show even more enthusiasm than their representatives.
Faced with these challenges, we cannot be miserly towards our citizens.
That would undoubtedly be the best guarantee we can offer future generations of a future of peace, freedom and prosperity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, you have had a tough Presidency involving many controversial issues, dramatic events in the surrounding world, the procedure surrounding the Commission and, in particular, the internal political unrest caused by the appalling murder of Theo&#160;van&#160;Gogh.
These factors must have affected your ambitions and efforts when it came to security and combating terrorism.
If the European Council can make progress at the Summit, all well and good.
It must not be forgotten that security and the fight against terrorism must never push aside protection of individual privacy.
Nonetheless, we expect you to have the courage to take this historic decision and, notwithstanding all the difficulties, to give Turkey a starting date with a view to its obtaining full membership.
This will also give a clear signal to the tens of thousands of Kurds in Diyarbakir who, at the weekend, demonstrated in favour of EU membership for Turkey.
You mentioned the European security policy, together with disarmament.
I assume that you will be discussing the agreement concluded by Iran with three of the Member States.
The mullahs in Teheran govern with an iron hand a country in which human rights are completely neglected.
The Social Democratic Government in my country maintains – although it may be mistaken, as it often is – that the issue of the embargo on arms sales to China will come up on Friday.
If that is the case, I would remind you of the solid opposition in this House to lifting the embargo.
This would send out completely the wrong signals to the Chinese regime. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, certain speeches on Ukraine – Mr Schulz’s in particular – have left me with a curious impression.
After listening to certain Members of this House over the past weeks, one could be forgiven for thinking that the European Union took consistent steps to establish, support and guide the democracy movement in Ukraine.
Europe’s security is also dependent on the situation in its neighbouring countries.
This is something I have heard very frequently in recent weeks, yet it is not only our security and our well-being that is always at stake.
If we are serious about the European values that we often invoke, the authoritarian and dictatorial systems around us must not be tolerated or accepted, regardless of our own interests.
This sector has already shed more than 1&#160;million jobs in the last ten years.
I ask you, Commissioner, to ensure that this question reaches the President of the Commission, who did not deign to hear our question. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the EU Constitution and Turkey constitute a mismatch.
I want to see a Europe in which large and populous nations are able to operate better in conjunction with small countries.
I do not understand how the Dutch Presidency can put its name to a communications strategy that will take money from opponents of the Constitution and make it available for propaganda on the part of adherents of the Constitution.
That is in conflict with the principle of equality and is thus illegal.
Any change to one of the numerous policies locked into the Constitution must first be proposed by unelectable Commissioners in Brussels and then be based upon a qualified majority in the Council of Ministers or, if appropriate, a unanimous amendment to the Constitution.
The undemocratic Constitution is, then, to be sold through an undemocratic distribution of funds for the purpose of providing information, so that people do not manage to discover that, crucially, they are losing what is at the very heart of democracy: the right to go to the polls and obtain a new majority and, subsequently, a new policy.
Mr&#160;Barroso, you in particular have spoken a great deal about it before this House.
It has to be said, however, that a European identity must be built first and foremost on common security and on the common economic area.
I would remind you that you referred to Parliament’s key role in the drawing up of financial perspectives.
Yet that is precisely what is being done in this ongoing work on the new external relations service.
Either we acknowledge and accept the right of the nation-states to determine the fate of the Constitution, its new institutions and its working apparatuses such as the foreign service, or we do not.
We should not forget that Europe cannot be built without the contribution of every individual and every European citizen.
Europe should export its values to the rest of the world, but it should also respect the men and women who enable it to exist.
Unfortunately, I fear that the decisions taken on 17&#160;December will be incomprehensible to many of our fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Council is discussing the accessions of Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey.
This is not about Islam or Christianity, but about the communality of rule of law and democracy, and in this great diversity, it is about the values we have enshrined in our new Constitution.
I will for a moment forget this meeting place, Strasbourg, but I would refer to the inefficient Treaty of Nice and the agreements surrounding agricultural spending which were too expensive and produced too little change.
The question remains: is Gijs de Vries to keep coasting along, or will you allow him to do his job properly?
Finally, I wish you much success with your position on Turkey.
In the particular case of Spain – a state that in theory acknowledges its own domestic plurality, but not always equality among all the different nations that make up that state – still more steps have to be taken.
When your Member States' governments sincerely acknowledge their plurality, that will be the most powerful tool in working towards a more democratic Turkey, and in asking for a fundamental change to the way in which it is applying to join the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, my party and my political group hope that the European Council will decide to embark upon negotiations with Turkey concerning membership.
It is just as important to point out that Turkey has a very long way to go, especially when it comes to human rights, the situation regarding minorities, the Cyprus issue and union rights.
A great many legislative changes have occurred in Turkey, but it has to be realised that these are not matched by the reality on the ground and by changes in practice.
Current Turkish legislation too is very deficient.
I can point to the new criminal law that still in practice makes it a criminal offence to mention the Armenian genocide in Turkey.
If Turkey were to join the EU, Europe would fall into chaos.
This can be prevented if we are open and transparent in casting our ‘no’ votes today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Nicolaï, the Dutch Presidency has nearly come to an end.
I think that we need to let the Council, the summit, know that the matter, particularly in relation to Romania, is certainly not done and dusted, because in that country, human rights, women’s rights and children’s rights are still being violated and corruption is still rampant.
With the same thing in mind, I should also like to make a remark about Croatia.
Ambitions and funding should tally with each other. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the Council summit at the end of this week, the Dutch Presidency will present its conclusions on the European Union’s anti-terrorist policy and anti-drugs strategy.
It is imperative for the European Union’s anti-terrorist policy to allow cooperation to be stepped up effectively between Member States and with third countries.
In particular, we believe that Member States should enter into the necessary commitments with a view to implementing the action plan on the fight against terrorism, while sticking to the timetable for that action plan, and also enter into commitments with a view to eliminating the obstacles which certain national administrations are placing in the way of exchanges of information.
We must also allow Europol and Eurojust to provide European added value in the fight against terrorism by placing them at the centre of cooperation and exchanges of information between Member States.
We would however note that the fight against terrorism should maintain a balance between necessary security measures, on the one hand, and respect for fundamental rights, on the other.
I believe it to be unacceptable that the Council has once again failed to wait for the European Parliament’s opinion, and that it refused to inform the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs of progress made in its own negotiations when the parliamentary committee was discussing the very same issue.
I have here the final draft of the conclusions and I must say that you have done a very good job.
I, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will insist on keeping paragraph 20 of the draft conclusions which I have before me, because it deals with the question of the peaceful resolution of differences with neighbouring countries.
I would also like to make a couple of positive remarks on what you have to say about the financial perspectives.
To close, I think that a great deal has been said about terrorism, but I wish to draw the Presidency's attention to the fact that the question of terrorism does not end with a few paragraphs.
All this reinforces the fact that the security of our citizens has to be an absolute priority for the EU but, as a number of colleagues have already pointed out, that needs real action.
Sound finances are the basis of a good economy and therefore we are right to review the budget.
At the same time, we always have to remember that solidarity is the cornerstone of the European Union.
That is why this debate on finances is vital to the future of the European Union. &#160;&#160; I would like to comment on the accession process of two neighbouring countries.
As Croatians lived under the same form of government as Hungarians for over 800 years, 400 years of which as part of the Habsburg Monarchy, their commitment to the legal system, and their social and economic organisation is very similar to those of Hungary.
Croatia’s economic and social preparedness also makes it possible for the negotiations for accession not only to be opened in the spring of 2005, but also to be concluded, regardless of other factors and other countries, such as Turkey.
This may also serve as a positive message to other nations and governments of the West Balkans who are headed towards Europe.
Romania’s accession will be a major step in the evolution of Europe, as a European nation composed of various European peoples, including two million Hungarians, will join.
It will be a win-win situation for both foreign policy and the internal market.
The preservation of European solidarity also includes paying attention to the impact that the expansion has on those Member States that comprise the borders of the European Union, such as Austria was this year.
In the case of Romania, the functioning of the community system is of key importance, and in order to prove this, it is enough to consider environmental protection, the policy of competition or areas made vulnerable by internal considerations such as animal health, customs, or excise tax.
If screening, that involves the European Parliament, reveals deficits in these fields a few years before and after accession, then EU resources must be mobilised for the necessary institutional development even at the cost of other goals.
As Bulgaria (which has shown promising progress) and Romania should be subject to individual consideration, I believe it is necessary to separate their accession processes and if necessary, to stipulate a flexible accession date to Romania, whose membership I very much look forward to. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, as rapporteur for Croatia I should like to say a few words today on a country to which little reference has been made, even though it is to be hoped that the European Council summit will see a positive and important decision taken on it.
Although it is a fact that every rapporteur treats the country for which he is responsible a little like his or her own child, I do believe that this is not merely a matter of taking a decision on Croatia, but of taking a decision on a whole region.
Particularly given the stability and security concerns that have already been touched upon, it is vital that the Council’s decision on it should be favourable.
There is however an obstacle that is undoubtedly of great significance, namely cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague.
I also hope that the Government will not merely issue declarations, but will genuinely take every possible measure to bring the indicted general Ante Gotovina before the Tribunal in The Hague.
Finally, Mr&#160;President, I believe that Ante Gotovina, if he is the patriot he claims to be, should not take his country hostage.
He must give himself up to the Tribunal in The Hague, as it would be a real shame if the fate of a country as important as Croatia were to depend on the decision of a single man not to surrender to justice.
I therefore hope that, in view of all these circumstances, a positive sign will be given to The Hague. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that everyone – citizens and politicians alike – is living through an historic era, because the decision which the European Council is expected to take on accession negotiations with Turkey will be a landmark for Turkey itself, the European Union and our region as a whole.
The European Parliament is having trouble finding its political direction on this issue, not because of any weakness on its part, but because of the complexity and seriousness of the issue.
We have one common denominator: we are calling on the European Council to defend the dignity of the European Union; to respect Turkey, but also to respect the values which unite the peoples of Europe.
No can be used as an alibi for setting aside our values or for adjusting them to Turkish demands, be it in connection with the spirit or the letter of the Copenhagen criteria or with the recognition of all 25 Member States of the European Union, by which you will understand that I mean the recognition of the Republic of Cyprus.
The other issue I wanted to mention is that the Council should, at long last, draw up a long-term plan for our foreign relations with decisiveness, cohesion, properly coordinated objectives and reliable financing.
In particular, I want to refer to our relations with the countries of the Balkans and our partner Mediterranean countries which make up our living space.
They did so in the belief that after many lost decades Hungarian society could become a part of the common European social model, including strong social policies for everybody, real improvements in environmental matters, free movement of labour and solidarity for common standards among the 25 nations.
If we are deeply concerned about the ageing population and the lack of labour forces, why do some Member States close their labour market even to the skilled workers of other EU Member States?
If we are so proud of our cultural values, as has been mentioned in this debate, why do we spend only one per cent of our budget on culture, education, etc.?
If 1.24&#160;per cent of GNI is such a low amount to build up a common European social, environmental and cultural model, why are some Member States even considering reducing this amount?
Finally, does the Council believe in a strong social and cultural union and is it ready to provide the basic financial sources to create it? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the debate on the Financial Perspective involves many different issues.
We must give greater priority to the expenditure supporting the development of the new knowledge-based society and dare to provide smaller subsidies to those parts of our economy that are too large and that belong to the economy of a different era.
There is one issue that makes the summit we are now facing especially historic, and that is the issue of Turkey.
This means that we must ask ourselves the question: will we enjoy greater safety and security with Turkey rooted firmly in the fundamental values of the EU and of Europe, just as we are that much safer and more secure as a result of the enlargement that has taken place this year and just as we shall also be safer and more secure if the EU can be extended to the Balkans?
The reason why other countries want to join the EU is the EU’s success in increasing safety and security.
This is an important reason why the Council must take the historic decision to agree to commencing negotiations. &#160;&#160; In my brief contribution, I shall deal with just one topic and that is the topic of enlargement.
We have been witnesses to an unprecedented historical enlargement with ten new countries.
I myself come from one of the new countries and I think we can all agree that, after just the first seven months, we can say that enlargement has been a success.
It has been a success for Europe, for the ‘old Member States’ and for the new countries.
The process of the historic enlargement of Europe is not complete, however.
We have talked in this House and we shall talk again this afternoon about Romania and about Bulgaria.
I am convinced that both Bulgaria and Romania are well on the way to joining the European Union and I believe that, with the European Union’s help, they will be able to make a successful accession into our Community in 2007.
We are also going to talk about Croatia.
I should like the Council to give a clear signal to Croatia that accession talks should begin with that country, provided, of course, that the appropriate Copenhagen criteria and the requirements of the International Criminal Court in The Hague have been met.
This will also support the process of reform there, which has been pursued successfully for the last two years. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is something of which I would like to remind, our assembled Heads of State or Government, and that is that they are elected by the people.
One would normally assume that these very Heads of State or Government represent the will of the people, but, right now, that clearly seems not to be the case where existential questions are concerned.
Let us take my own country, the Federal Republic of Germany, as an example.
Only 15% of Germans are in favour of Turkey gaining full membership of the European Union , 60% of Germans support that special form of cooperation that we call a privileged partnership, 22% are generally against cooperation between Turkey and the European Union and only 3% expressed no opinion.
It is an existential question for the European Union, for the political Union which is of the utmost importance for us and for the preservation of peace in the future.
If our own Heads of State or Government now give Turkey a starting date for negotiations, even though the criteria have not been met, and even though we know that we cannot manage to integrate this enormous country, they will be gambling away our future.
We have expanded much in the past year and three more countries are yet to join us.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too actually wanted to talk about an enlarged Europe.
We have to ask ourselves what it is that holds 450 million Europeans together, what it is that unites us all, from Estonia to Portugal, from Scotland to Greece, and, as we all know, the answer is: European values.
It is also the positive objectives the European Union has set itself: the commitment to peace, to freedom and to justice.
Over the next two years in particular, during the process of ratifying the Constitution, it is especially important to convey these things and not to lose ourselves in points of detail.
I am therefore especially glad that, at the summit on Friday, under Points 66 and 67 of the Conclusions, you asked the Commission to put these matters at the forefront of its communication strategy.
I think that we can win the people over in this way – Commissioner Wallström is also doing good work in this regard – and so I would like to encourage you to decide in favour of this, as it is indeed necessary.
In this context, I also think that Points 69 and 52, in which we affirm human rights, are very positive.
Europe needs this instrument, and our values are important not only for our identity within the Union, but also for our authority in the world at large.
I therefore wish not only to congratulate you, but also to encourage you to push forward with these issues. &#160;&#160; – &#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Turkey’s accession to the European Union, which has lasted for several months, will shortly come to an end.
I should like to congratulate all the Members of this House, myself included, on the wide-ranging nature of the debate, and to express the hope that every other important decision will be preceded by a debate of such calibre.
During this debate, no fewer than four model positions on Turkey’s accession to the European Union emerged.
The third position consists of waiting until Turkey meets the Copenhagen criteria in full, which amounts to imposing additional conditions given that the Copenhagen criteria have not been fully met.
I understand that Parliament’s decision is to adopt the first model, or in other words to start negotiations next year without any other additional conditions, and I also understand that this is likely to be the Council’s decision too.
It will be a decision of ground-breaking importance, and a decision imposing a great responsibility on the Member States, the EU and the Council.
Conditions are set not only for the Turkish side, but also for the Member States, the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
In a certain sense, Turkey is an adopted child, and we should not forget that the responsibilities of the family and of the parents are particularly challenging when adopting a child.
I hope we are all fully aware of this, and that we will begin to put our European house in order. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, of the various topics for debate at the forthcoming European Council – in addition to Turkey, which we have spoken about on a number of occasions – the topic of the fight against terrorism remains extremely important.
The events of 11&#160;September 2001 have ushered in a radical change in the area of security.
Security has become a global, indivisible concept, which today encompasses internal and external security and the support of third countries in the fight against terrorism.
The EU and its Member States must streamline their defence capacities and strengthen their channels of diplomatic cooperation, their information services and their legal and law enforcement coordination, in a genuine synergy of national and transnational policy.
All the same, it is important to treat each candidate country separately according to progress made, not as a package.
The opening of negotiations may be sanctioned provided all the Copenhagen criteria are clearly met, just as in the case of accession countries in the final round of negotiations.
This, however, will undermine the sense of security of other, smaller countries in the future.
Her message was this: ‘Show me the room in this building where we could hand in Ukraine’s accession application’.
That is what the public expects of this Parliament.
What has been said here today about Turkey’s accession has little to do with the reality in that country.
The Dutch Presidency has expressly stated in the introduction that Turkey has fulfilled the political accession criteria, and thus is a democratic state under the rule of law, where basic rights, and especially the rights of minorities, are respected.
It seems that a lot of my fellow-Members in this House are basing their opinions on this principle of hope – particularly all those who are to the left of centre and who, I suspect, will be in the majority.
Mr Schulz, Mr Cohn-Bendit, and others, have told us that a Turkey that is secular and respects the rule of law would strengthen Europe’s community of values.
The Turkey of today, though, is still a long way from these values.
Let me start with the fundamental debate raised by a number of Members of this House, that being the debate about what the European Union is, what Europe is.
As Mr Schulz and others stated, Europe, the European Union, is a community of values.
In that connection, Mrs Uca made the helpful remark that, with Turkey in mind, that conclusion can also be a bridge to Islam and indeed, we can use it to illustrate that Europe is a political and not a religious project.
Some of you, including Mr Maaten and Mr Lehne, have spoken in explicit terms and with appreciation about the series of conferences on the nature of Europe and the essence of the values we share.
We also realise that in terms of shared European values, many of those are, in fact, universal values, and we want them to be exactly that.
Despite this, there are discernable European traits with regard to the way in which we apply those values, how we can invoke them and how we organise them.
We held that debate yesterday and concluded that, because of the concerns about it, we will, in time, need to clearly demonstrate the huge advantages of the possibility of Turkey joining.
Mr Watson noted that Turkey sufficiently meets the criteria, and that is also, in agreement with the Commission’s conclusion, the presidency’s position following the entry into force of the six laws.
Mr Eurlings and others pointed out once again that it is important to maintain pressure on Turkey in relation to the developments needed in that country in respect of human rights, religious freedom and other political criteria.
That is precisely why the presidency has decided, based on the Commission proposals, to come up with a new framework for future negotiations about accession.
That framework allows for more pressure to be brought to bear and offers more guarantees for smooth progress.
This so-called ‘emergency stop option’, in other words an option of suspension, offers guarantees in relation to the sensitive political criteria.
Mr Barroso included it in his introduction, and Mr Adamou and Mr Dimitrakopoulos alluded to it too.
I should like to reiterate the Dutch Presidency’s key position on this score in the preparations of the Council that will be held at the end of this week.
We do indeed want Turkey to recognise the fact that Cyprus is a Member of the European Union and is one of the Twenty-Five countries.
Mr van den Berg has asked specifically whether the presidency can confirm that the intention is that no accession date be set.
Finally in connection with Turkey, I should like to raise the sensitive issue which will be discussed presently in Parliament, namely the so-called open-endedness of the negotiations.
Once again, Mr van den Berg asked specifically what the presidency’s intention is.
Let me make it clear once more: the presidency’s intention is that these should be accession negotiations with accession in mind.
The third element is that European cohesion must in any event remain sufficiently guaranteed, but the Dutch Presidency’s understanding for Thursday’s and Friday’s conclusions is that there is indeed no Plan B.
Since we will be discussing Romania and Bulgaria later on, I will now confine myself to a few fundamental remarks in response to questions in this respect.
That is also the response to the questions by Mr Eurlings, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and Mr&#160;Kirkhope, who are still deeply concerned about the situation in Romania and emphasise the importance of continuing to bring maximum pressure to bear on the developments there.
A number of Members have made reference to Croatia, and, as it is not a separate item on the agenda, I think that, despite the uproar in the Chamber, it would be useful to give you a precise response to this.
Much progress has been made and the country is located in the centre of Europe.
In addition, Mr Watson, Mr van den Berg and Mr Swoboda were right to point out that full cooperation with the ICTY (International Criminal Tribune for the Former Yugoslavia) is of vital importance.
I would say to Mr Swoboda and to Mr Becsey that it would, of course, be good if we could make that positive step, also bearing in mind the fulfilment of Croatia’s role as a model in the Balkans.
In addition, Mr Watson, Mrs&#160;Malmström and Mrs Buitenweg were right, in my view, to point out the importance of striking a balance between fighting terrorism and fundamental rights.
I agree with them, and I think that Mr Maarten was right to point out that we, in the Hague Programme, have demonstrated the Council’s desire to preserve that balance.
Mr Eurlings, and others, see the exchange of information as crucial to the fight against terrorism.
That is the cornerstone of this presidency, and is also included in the Council’s agenda for Thursday and Friday.
It is therefore useful to indicate the Council’s position on this score.
I can reassure a number of Members who are worried about what is going to happen on Thursday and Friday.
During our presidency, we have taken steps to improve that situation by means of single audits, and we will discuss this in more detail in the spring.
Mr Schulz was the first one to speak about it, and was very frank, as was Mrs&#160;Napoletano.
It is also a very important step toward speaking with one voice in external policy.
I can be brief about the next subject, namely the Lisbon strategy, which was raised by a number of Members, including Mr Maaten, Mr Kirkhope and Mr Titley.
As Mr Maaten and Mr Kirkhope stated, it is also true that deregulation and the reduction of the administrative burden is crucial for our competitiveness in the world.
In addition, a unique meeting took place in Amsterdam involving all European Affairs ministers.
Mr Maaten congratulated the presidency on promoting the public’s involvement by means of good communication.
That is not enough, but is nevertheless a big step forward and I should like to end on this happy note.
In any case, I would like to thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on behalf of President Barroso and the whole of the Commission, I wish to thank you for this debate, which has provided us with many valuable and constructive proposals and viewpoints.
The debate has also reflected the EU’s ambitious and demanding agenda over the next few years.
I have only one single thing to add to what has already been said by President Barroso and the Presidency of the Council.
Parallel to the negotiations on which the Commission wishes to embark with Turkey, a cultural dialogue is also proposed.
That is something I believe is very important if we are also to investigate and resolve a number of the arguments put forward in this House.
The concerns in question are of course of ten years’ duration when it comes to the issue of Turkey.
I hope, indeed am convinced, that the debate that has been conducted in this House today will be a sound basis for the discussions that are to be conducted by the Council and that will continue to be conducted in the Commission too. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Which Rule of Procedure are you invoking, Mr Watson? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise because in ten years of service in this House I cannot recall an instance similar to that regarding today's vote on the Eurlings report … &#160;&#160; I would ask you to obey the Rules of Procedure and indicate which Rule you are invoking. &#160;&#160; I apologise, Mr President, I should like to make a point of order under Rule 162.
As Mr&#160;Watson has just pointed out, and to pick up on the remarks made by Mr&#160;Poettering, it is the European Union’s duty to take the historic decision on whether or not to open negotiations with Turkey.
Yet I know of no one whom I respect who lacks the courage to say what they think about Turkey.
So please restrict yourself to that. &#160;&#160; I would ask that those Members who have signed this resolution with the far right to withdraw their signatures, as the resolution is beneath their logic and their intelligence.
I call on all those with any self-respect to withdraw their signatures and to vote… &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are familiar with Rule 162, and we also see from the voting list that 147 Members are apparently invoking Rule 162 to justify holding a secret ballot on various tabled amendments and in the final vote.
I would therefore like to make my group's position on Rule 162 clear: the Socialist Group in the European Parliament would prefer a vote by roll call, for we believe that Europe's citizens have a right to know how Members of the European Parliament are voting on this key issue.
In our view, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this House is incapable of adhering to a coherent and unified line.
Most of the 147 signatures come from this group, and I would like to thank the former Belgian Prime Minister, Mr Dehaene, for informing the Members of this group in unequivocal terms that while this solution may be acceptable from a legal perspective, politically it is completely unacceptable. &#160;&#160; It is becoming clear that the point of order relates to the application of Rule 162 on secret ballots, in accordance with the request made. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly, this is one Rule that I did not draft.
I take good note of your opinion and I will take it into account.
Parliament would then be able to decide whether or not it is in favour of holding a secret ballot. &#160;&#160; You have made a proposal to organise our work.
The Presidency takes good note of that, but our work is regulated by the Rules of Procedure and they provide us with sufficient guidance on how to proceed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just wanted to say that according to my reason – if not to the Rules of Procedure – I am against the secret ballot and ask colleagues from my Group – or some of them at least – to withdraw their signatures. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a debate on whether those who have signed have been right to do so or whether they should not sign.
However, even if a request for a vote by roll call has been made, under Rule 162(3) of the Rules of Procedure the request for a secret ballot shall take priority over the request for a vote by roll call. &#160;&#160; Mr President, all that I am asking is for you to implement the provisions of Rule 162(3), under which one fifth of Members of Parliament may call for a secret ballot.
The debate, Mr&#160;President … &#160;&#160; Mr President, I invoke the same article as Mr Wurtz.
The Presidency has received three requests for secret ballots presented in accordance with Rule 162(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which says, and I quote – I will do so in Spanish and naturally it will have to be translated: ‘Voting may also be by secret ballot if requested by at least one-fifth of the component Members of Parliament.
Aware that this issue would be subject to debate, before this sitting, the Presidency studied the relevant precedents and judgments of the Court of Justice and, regardless of my own personal views on how things should be done, my obligation is to try to interpret the Rules of Procedure in a manner which is as close as possible to the Law and, to this end, I must point out to the House that there is the precedent of President Cox considering, in the meeting of 12 June 2002, that the term ‘may be secret’ implied that the proposal should automatically be accepted and that, if a sufficient number of Members requested it, their request should be granted.
Furthermore, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities issued a judgment in October 2001 in which it also interpreted the term ‘may’ or ‘can’ as an obligatory condition in relation to a Rule of Procedure similar to the one we are dealing with now.
We shall probably have to clarify in the future whether or not the Presidency's interpretation is correct, but at this point in the procedure, the Presidency must take responsibility for the decision without having the opportunity to take the advice of the competent committees, and it is my feeling, having heard all the Members and the legal services, that according to a correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure we must proceed to the secret ballot requested, and that is what we are going to do.
It shall be secret, but electronic.
None of our Armenian friends were aware of this place or of its opening to pilgrims.
The rest is to remain unchanged, as these were merely clarifications. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, vehicle theft is on the rise in Europe, as is a feeling of insecurity among our citizens.
In Parliament we have adopted and recommended various measures.
The proposal submitted to us by the Netherlands is well intentioned but in the wrong form.
The text submitted to us should have fallen under the scope of the first pillar and not the third.
The Commission upheld our arguments in this regard.
We should like to give one message to the Council: it would be good if, in the future, the Council and the Member States showed greater respect for Parliament’s prerogatives.
One last word to thank all those Members of this House who contributed with proposals and advice, in particular the Members of the Transport Committee and Mr Jardim Fernandes and Mrs Wortmann-Kool. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our oral Amendment No 28 is intended to provide better and more effective protection for the rights we intend to protect and to do so in a realistic manner, not through utopian proposals.
I asked a class of about 120 girls aged between 16 and 19 to vote for or against Turkey’s accession to the European Union.
I have therefore willingly gone along with those young people’s vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey.
May God protect the West's Christian civilisation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on Turkey and I believe we did good work today.
We have given encouragement to those inside Turkey and indeed to those outside Turkey who have campaigned and worked hard for a secular Turkish state, a Turkish state based on democracy and a Turkish state that respects human rights.
So all in all I am very pleased with the work we have carried out this morning. &#160;&#160; – &#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind all Members of this House, both those who voted for and those who voted against, that the vote was not on whether Turkey should be accepted into the European Union or not.
We have betrayed the spirit of Lepanto, a thousand-year tradition of a Europe that is and wants to remain attached to its Christian roots.
We call for a referendum to be held in all the countries of the European Union so that the people can have their say, because the peoples of Europe are against Turkey’s accession. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in of 8&#160;December, Mr Erdogan, the Turkish Prime Minister, stated that if the EU is not a Christian club, then it should be possible for an Islamic country such as Turkey to join.
What this means is that Europe should abandon its individuality, or a large proportion of it anyway, while Turkey is allowed to stay an Islamic club.
Moreover, how will we in future reject applications from Morocco, for example, if we include a non-European country such as Turkey?
I can only conclude that we in this House have become too pusillanimous to carry on protecting our own interests as Europeans. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let me focus on the positive aspects first.
We were in the minority at first, but our course is now endorsed by the largest group in this House, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and we just need another 40 Members to adopt a clear position over the coming years.
This is something I find disturbing, not for reasons of religion, history or community, but because this is a political issue which has direct bearing on democracy and human rights.
It appears to me to be questionable, if not irresponsible, to pursue a policy of never-ending enlargement at a time when the political dimension of the European Union and its social and tax harmonisation are far from a reality.
At present, the European Union is not in a position to make political proposals of genuine integration to a country the size of Turkey.
I would note that our position is not based on arguments relating to geographical, historical, religious or cultural aspects.
It is not Turkey’s ability to meet a certain number of conditions which has caused me to hold such a view, but the European Union’s inability to provide the necessary framework to create a common future. &#160;&#160; . – On behalf of the CSU Members of the European Parliament, I would like to clarify our position in relation to the possible opening of accession negotiations with Turkey once more.
Today's vote has shown that the 'privileged partnership' model is endorsed by many of our fellow Members from all EU Member States and all political groups.
This refutes the arguments, in particular, of those who claim that the CDU and the CSU are isolated on this issue in Europe.
It appears to me to be questionable, if not irresponsible, to follow a policy of never-ending enlargement at a time when the political dimension of the European Union and its social and tax harmonisation are far from a reality.
At present, the European Union is not in a position to make political proposals of genuine integration to a country the size of Turkey.
A 'yes' vote today will support the campaigns of all progressive forces in Turkey to shed the last remnants of Turkey's authoritarian past.
Stopping the process of opening negotiations at this time would have terrible consequences for the human rights situation in Turkey.
I voted in favour of acknowledging the genocide of the Armenian people by Turkey, as I believe that this is essential for reconciliation with its neighbours and with its history. &#160;&#160; The June List does not view Turkey’s geographical position or its Muslim religion as obstacles to its membership of the EU.
Turkey must acknowledge the Armenian genocide.
It must give its minorities full human rights.
It must achieve a level of economic development such that its membership does not release tensions that may threaten the internal market.
The EU must also change.
Turkey does not recognise the Republic of Cyprus, a Member State of the European Union which it has occupied for 30&#160;years, and it punishes anyone who refers to the Armenian genocide.
The report does not in any way imply that resolution of these issues is a precondition to opening talks.
Turkey should receive equal, fair and proper treatment during the negotiations. &#160;&#160; – As Chairman of the European Parliament’s Delegation on the countries of the South Caucasus, I welcome the adoption by a large majority of the Eurlings report on opening accession negotiations with Turkey, and would reiterate how crucial it is for the peoples of Europe and for the stability of an entire continent to open the doors of the European Union to this country.
I regret the fact that the European Union did not make the issue of lifting the blockade and opening the border with Turkey’s neighbour, Armenia, part of the discussions on Turkey’s possible accession from the outset, and I regret that Turkey has not taken this historic opportunity to show goodwill by opening its border with Armenia.
Yet using the border issue and the Armenian genocide as reasons to refuse to open up to Turkey, as right-wing French political parties in particular have done, is unacceptable.
This assertion, repeated in Mr&#160;Eurlings’ report, is an untruth: since the first enlargement of 1972, every negotiation process has been followed by the accession of the candidate country.
If on 17&#160;December, against the will of the people, the European Council decides to open accession negotiations with the Turkish Government, the referendum on the European Constitution will be France’s last opportunity to avoid being swallowed up in a union that is European in name alone, and in which Turkey, the most populous country, will play a prominent part. &#160;&#160; – I am against any further enlargement until the Union has achieved deeper political integration and created a powerful Europe and a social Europe.
The issue that will arise for everyone has nothing to do with either religion or geography: the European Union has to be a political project.
We need to overhaul the architecture of Europe and have a federal core, then a Union of 27 countries and then a zone of enhanced cooperation with neighbouring countries such as Turkey, and also other countries like the Maghreb countries, with which we enjoy close links.
No one, therefore, can accuse me of not being well-disposed towards Turkey.
From this perspective too, and because there is no question that Turkey must remain fully anchored in European structures, the option of a tailor-made special status instead of the discriminatory membership deal proposed by the Commission would appear to be a more accessible and honourable path for Turkey, aside from the fact that there are justified doubts … &#160;&#160; . – I voted in favour of the report by Mr Εurlings on Turkey's progress towards accession to the European Union, because it is the product of compromise between the various political groups in the European Parliament.
However, I am in no way bound by the phrase in paragraph 38 concerning use of the Annan plan as a basis for efforts to settle the Cyprus question, in that this plan was rejected by 76% of Greek Cypriots and 67% of all Cypriots.
I also have reservations about the exact content of paragraph 39, which I consider to be incompatible with the report by Mrs Mechtild Rothe, which the European Parliament voted in favour of about a month ago (see: Rothe report, Amendment No 2, Recital 4a (new) (4a) page 6/15). &#160;&#160; .
The army’s power is immense; there are political prisoners; parties and newspapers are often banned and an electoral threshold of 10% keeps even most legal parties outside of parliament.
Turkey must change a great deal before we can welcome it, not only in its legislation but also in daily life.
After more than 40 years, it is now proposed to open negotiations shortly with a view to full membership of the EU.
There is the risk that the Turkish Government may consider that after three or five years’ negotiations, Turkey deserves EU membership, without the problems of democracy, human rights and ethnic minorities having been resolved by then, with the potential for conflicts and an eventual rift.
I would like to emphasise that my reason for voting Turkey's progress towards accession is because it is a Muslim country and will serve as an important bridge between Europe and the Middle East in particular.
The believes that the Council decision of 17&#160;December should make it unequivocally clear that the opening of negotiations with Turkey requires the Turkish Government’s recognition of the State of Cyprus, a full Member State of the European Union, and consequently the resolution of the Cypriot question, which means the withdrawal of the 35&#160;000 Turkish troops which, in occupying Cyprus, are occupying a territory of the European Union.
The benefits are more political than economic since, as well as being a member of NATO, Turkey has signed a customs union treaty with the European Union that already permits free trade.
Secondly, it would have a negative effect on the allocation of European funds to regions currently considered to be ‘lagging behind in their development’, such as Sicily, at least in the short term.
Secondly, experience shows that once negotiations have been opened, accession inevitably follows once the candidate country meets the conditions laid down, and in particular the Copenhagen criteria.
But although we might legitimately hope that Turkey will continue to build on the progress it has made, particularly on democracy and human rights, there is as yet no guarantee that Europe is prepared to provide the resources, not least the budgetary resources, to go ahead with such an enlargement in a mutually satisfactory way.
My abstention is then a warning to the European Summit of 17&#160;December: no more enlargement without deeper integration!
In the same way, I believe that the Commission recently repeated the mistake when it deemed that the Copenhagen criteria have already been satisfied, while there are still situations such as those detailed in the motion for a resolution that are blatantly at variance with this position.
In so doing it will confirm its credentials as a fully democratic and responsible country and one that respects human rights. &#160;&#160; – I supported opening accession negotiations with Turkey, and I did so for one reason above all: I want a better world for tomorrow, characterised by stability and security.
Yes, we should stand firm in the name of historical truth, which is why I continue, as I have done in the past, to demand that the Turkish authorities acknowledge their part in the Armenian genocide.
One truth and one history: we owe it to that same history also to remember that for 50 years Turkey has played an essential role as a loyal ally at the gates of Europe.
I am pleased that the European Parliament supported my amendment to Paragraph&#160;26 on zero tolerance with regard to crimes of honour.
Yet both these goals can be achieved without Turkey joining the European Union.
The European Economic Area is an excellent example of a platform for good economic cooperation with the EU.
It could also be useful to propose a reform of security policy to Turkey, as the country is one of Europe’s major strategic partners in the field of security.
A privileged partnership of this kind with Turkey would provide us with the chance of avoiding a crisis of agricultural policy and cohesion policy.
If we wish to avoid migration-related conflicts, we should not be instrumental in a Muslim country becoming the European Union’s largest Member State in the near future.
It is estimated that Turkey will have a population of around 90&#160;million in 2020.
The development of closer relations with Turkey should also be kept more in proportion to Europe’s policy of openness towards Ukraine.
My vote in favour of opening negotiations certainly does not mean that I cannot wait for them to start.
At the same time, though, we would like to remain realistic, because after all, the train was put in motion in 1999 and in 2002.
What matters to us in the ballot is that the Union should retain its credibility and that we send a clear message about the conditions under which these open-ended negotiations are to proceed.
The rapporteur was right to observe that the new feature of the Dutch proposal is that of national contact points.
The proposal also seeks to safeguard certain key objectives, such as establishing a homogenous level of consumer protection throughout the Community, by defining the role of the European Food Safety Authority, and by increasing the trade in foodstuffs within the EU.
I believe that significant progress has been made between the first and second readings, namely the Council’s adoption of both the amendments tabled by Parliament and the introduction of amendments to its initiative, which have certainly improved the Commission’s original proposal.
I feel, however, that there remain aspects that could be clarified, such as the distinction between residues – in the context of maximum residue limits (MRLs) – and pesticides.
However, precisely because it is an important partner, we must steadfastly oppose the systematic dismantling of democracy and the rule of law in Russia and the continuing genocide against the Chechen people in a colonial war.
Indeed, common borders and interests combine to create an enlarged area of understanding, given the mutual interest in maintaining permanent dialogue on the fields proposed for the four common spaces, the common economic space; the common space of freedom, security and justice; the common space of cooperation in the field of external security; the common space of research, education and culture.
They are intended to raise the standard of application of the current directives in the EU, providing for the possibility of a review and to improve conditions for the vast majority of refugees within the region they are fleeing.
I welcome these Commission proposals intended to improve the assessment process by adopting a single procedure, thereby simplifying the process for both the applicant and the administration.
I also welcome the additional measures proposed, which offer the means for managed, legal entry into the EU, not least if they help to reduce trafficking in human beings, along with the intention to develop high-quality protection regimes in receiving countries.
The overwhelming majority of the report was positive and in line with my own party policy.
The most appropriate vehicle for dealing with such issues is through member state cooperation and under the auspices of the United Nations.
We feel that, as part of the current policies pursued at EU level, this resolution criticises very mildly, and does not condemn clearly, the impact of the current EU asylum policy.
The resolution contains a number of points that we welcome, such as its call for strict compliance with international standards, encompassing the principle that refugees may not be expelled (allowing the asylum seeker to enter the country in which the request was made); the rejection of any funding for detention camps or any other centre restricting asylum seekers’ personal freedom; and an end to the policy of repatriation and readmission aimed at sending immigrants back to their countries of origin, as our group had proposed.
Hence our vote in favour. &#160;&#160; The report on asylum procedure and protection in regions of origin is part of establishing the first stage of a common European asylum system, and the aim is to apply one and the same procedure to international protection in all the Member States.
We cannot therefore support the report. &#160;&#160; – This report is a further step towards the adoption of a single asylum procedure.
The future European asylum application procedure will therefore cover all those who wish to migrate.
It is true that in the borderless Europe of Brussels there is a political tradition of systematically fostering immigration.
I endorse the report, in particular where it proposes, in addition to the current European common asylum policy, the creation of measures both to develop orderly and better organised entry into the EU of persons in need of international protection and to step up protection capacity in the regions of origin.
The aim is therefore to protect, at an early stage, political asylum seekers and refugees who, given the lengthy processing of asylum claims, especially in crisis situations, may resort to illegal means of travel, which may undermine their personal security.
I am in agreement with this report whereby the speed and administrative efficiency are important in assessing any system but they cannot be the only criteria when people’s futures are at risk.
The overwhelming majority of the report was positive and in line with my own party policy.
The most appropriate vehicle for dealing with such issues is through member state cooperation and under the auspices of the United Nations.
On the other hand, I disagree on a key point: the application of asylum procedures to other situations of subsidiary protection.
The truth is that neither the concept of Fortress Europe nor that of Sanctuary Europe has much to do with reality.
Anti-asylum legislation, the inhumane record numbers of asylum requests refused and mediaeval living conditions in immigration centres were not enough.
The proposed 'Community-wide system of resettlement' is a mantle for public opinion to accept the creation of camps to round up immigrants outside the ΕU.
Finally, the 'protected entry procedures' promote non-entry, in that asylum requests will be completed in a country outside the ΕU.
The text is teeming with references to human rights, accompanied by proposals and policies which violate them.
A common foreign and security policy is advocated which will pay greater attention to 'conflict prevention'; in other words, which will fan the flames of the fire ignited by imperialism. &#160;&#160; This report contains proposals and wordings that reflect a liberal attitude towards drugs.
The ‘alternative policy’ recommended in the report involves a more liberal policy towards drugs, emphasising harm reduction measures against drug use, rather than preventive work.
We are opposed to a common EU drugs policy.
Such a policy would involve countries with a restrictive drugs policy, such as Sweden, being forced to conduct a more lenient and liberal drugs policy.
It is up to each national Parliament in the EU to make decisions concerning their national drugs policies. &#160;&#160; – Drug consumption is on the increase throughout Europe.
Around 7&#160;000 people die of overdoses every year in the European Union, and three times as many die as an indirect result of drug abuse (suicide, violence, AIDS, road accidents, and so on).
Great, except that what it is proposing in the fight against drugs is not to prevent young people from taking drugs or to give drug addicts the means to come clean, but to make drug addiction more hygienic.
Prevention is of course essential in the fight against drugs, but so is repression.
Moreover, this over-simplistic classification has led to a considerable increase in cannabis consumption.
Turkey has made impressive progress in these areas, but it is apparent from the reports by non-governmental organisations that it has not yet achieved these objectives.
For example, according to the Europol report on organised crime, drugs production and trafficking continue to be the main activity pursued by criminal groups in the EU.
It is ironic that the rapporteur cites fundamental rights and claims to fight against an ‘ideological approach’ to this subject, in order to justify a highly ideological position that, strictly speaking, runs counter to basic fundamental rights. &#160;&#160; – On 16 and 17&#160;December, the Council will decide on the new European Union Anti-Drugs Strategy for 2005-2012.
We must therefore step up prevention, provide better care and enhance health policy so as to avoid human tragedies and reduce exclusion. &#160;&#160; . – The European Parliament recommendation has not taken account of the recent annual report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addition, which demolishes the so-called Dutch experiment and the argument that cannabis is allegedly harmless.
The rapporteur endeavours to achieve the general application of the Dutch experiment through the back door, adopting the dangerous approach of dividing drugs into soft and hard.
As a consequence of this dangerous approach, all the proposals which detract from the primary concern – prevention – focus on damage limitation (substitution programmes) and look for solutions in the mechanisms and resources of the ΕU.
Preventive and therapeutic measures and measures to reintegrate users are needed, together with a movement which will fight to overturn the social causes and the barbaric policy of capitalism which leads to drugs. &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote. &#160;&#160; The sitting is suspended. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to make a personal statement pursuant to the provisions of Rule 145.
In view of the fact that a Member of the European Parliament has been grossly insulted, I have submitted a request to the President of the European Parliament to conduct an enquiry into information, which has been deliberately circulated in my country, Latvia, concerning my activities here at the European Parliament.
He has voiced the opinion in mass media publications that my activities aroused such indignation amongst Members of the European Parliament that, in protest against me and my personal views, they left the Chamber.
I therefore request the leadership of the European Parliament to investigate this incident and to reinstate the truth about my European Parliament activities.
Spreading lies or allowing them to be spread not only fails to promote the principle of legality, human rights and justice, but also discredits the European Parliament and its Members.
Since then the country has undergone tremendous political and economic changes: it became a member of NATO earlier this year and is now well on course to join the European Union on 1 January 2007.
Let us look at some of the changes that have taken place in Bulgaria.
However, on the other hand, internal dynamics have greatly altered the political and social landscape in Bulgaria as it cast off its old mantle following the collapse of communism in 1990.
Bulgaria is now a fully functioning market economy and has been recognised as such since 2002.
I strongly support the ongoing reform of Bulgaria's public administration, with the adoption of amendments to the Civil Service law.
There are still areas of concern that I have been highlighting since 1999.
Organised crime and corruption are an obstacle to reform in Bulgaria, having knock-on effects in all sectors of the economy and society.
The same strategic approach must be adopted for the integration of the Roma community into Bulgarian society.
This point may be unpopular in some circles but it is the only way that real change will be brought about on the ground for the Roma.
The European Union's enlargement to the east and south-east marks a momentous change in Europe.
History is being written as we speak – in Ukraine, for instance – and this morning Parliament gave its green light to the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey.
Within Europe this means refocusing the nature and objectives of the European Union.
This means the EU doing less but doing it better.
I wish to thank colleagues across Parliament for their support and assistance in my work as rapporteur.
There will be an opportunity for a more comprehensive report on Bulgaria's accession early in the new year.
On 17&#160;December I trust the European Council will formally conclude Bulgaria's negotiations and set the date for signature of the Accession Treaty in spring 2005.
It is a new step towards a truly reunited Europe, based on mutually accepted principles of democracy and the rule of law.
The new penal code still has to be approved.
Both in Bulgaria and in Romania, improvements in the standard of living should be a priority.
The economic growth that Bulgaria and Romania have seen in recent years has had a positive effect on purchasing power, but the effects at grass-roots level, especially for the elderly, have remained limited.
Monitoring of the last part of the fifth enlargement will continue until 2007, in order to welcome the two new, long-awaited members then ready to join the European Union.
Important and necessary decisions have been taken in this respect.
Continuation on its current reform path should enable the country to cope with competitive pressures and market forces within the European Union.
As from November 2005 the Commission will issue yearly comprehensive monitoring reports for the Council and Parliament following the same methodology as was applied to the new Member States that joined the Union in May 2004.
These reports will focus particularly on public administration, the judiciary and the fight against corruption, as well as the track record in economic reforms.
Let me conclude by saying that I share the conclusions of the report of your rapporteur, Mr Van Orden, which are, by and large, in line with the 2004 regular report.
The Commission will continue to keep the European Parliament informed of Bulgaria’s progress towards accession.
It is also pleased that in Spring 2004 a new funding framework was established for Bulgaria and that the Commission has adopted a consistent approach by restricting the aid package to a period of three years from the accession of Bulgaria in 2007 so that we can adapt it to any future reforms of policies which may be necessary as a result of the new financial perspectives.
I was in Bulgaria in 1990, when the country first attempted to hold free elections.
In many ways, it was reminiscent of the current situation in Ukraine.
Both these countries should become members of the European Union before the decade is out, and Mr Van Orden's excellent report makes a major contribution to this process.
Technically, Bulgaria has completed all the accession negotiation chapters and is clearly headed towards becoming a full member of the European Union in January 2007.
The report welcomes positive changes implemented in the field of minority rights, as a result of which the so-called legislation on anti-discrimination was adopted on January 1, 2004.
The report also emphasises the importance of the legislature’s practical extension, as discrimination against Romany people remains widespread there.
The report acknowledges Bulgaria meeting the economic criteria and notes that it is a functioning market economy and at the time of accession will be able to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the Union.
We therefore believe that this House can vote in favour of Bulgaria accession to the European Union in 2007 with a clear conscience.
We support Mr Van Orden's report and speaking personally, I would like to thank him and Mrs Dobolyi from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament for the good cooperation.
However, this is incompatible with a situation in which a candidate country which fulfils the criteria is held back by the slower progress made by other countries.
The countries making swifter progress thus accede too late while the candidates making slower progress join too early.
This situation must change.
For this reason alone, namely to preserve the European Union's credibility and not because there is any doubt about the European prospect of either of the two candidates, my group has always been in favour of separate accession treaties for Bulgaria and Romania.
Simplifying the mechanism to invoke the safeguard clause in the case of Romania will enhance the credibility of the accession process and thus the credibility of the European Union itself.
The Roma people are still lagging behind and disadvantaged.
The fact that the Bulgarian electorate still has not made any steady choices is apparent from the rapid changes within the two main rivalling political parties, and, above all, from the fact that a newcomer to the most recent general elections achieved almost the majority of the votes.
It would be useful if the negotiations about Macedonia’s accession – for which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has appointed me as rapporteur – were to run parallel with Croatia, which also has its roots in former Yugoslavia, so that we can welcome the Bulgarians and Macedonians to the European Union simultaneously. &#160;&#160; – &#160;Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope Mr&#160;Posselt will praise me as well shortly.
Black-and-white films are not popular either in politics or in real life.
It is true that Bulgaria has made progress and that it should join the European Union on 1&#160;January&#160;2007.
Secondly, trade in human beings, in particular in women and children, is still a serious problem.
As a third point, the adoption system and its lack of transparency, as well as the situation in Bulgarian orphanages and special schools, continue to be a cause for concern.
The sixth point I should like to refer to is the widespread corruption, which is a thorn in Bulgaria’s side as it enters the EU, given that it affects various areas and levels of government and is apparent at every turn.
The Bulgarian Government is acting like the choir in a Chinese opera, where the choir sings ‘let’s run away, let’s run away’ for three acts, but stays in the same place the whole time.
The Bulgarian Government constantly repeats that it is taking measures to fight the mafia, but it would appear that it is mainly conducting a war of words.
The mafia continues to be a serious problem.
In conclusion, Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, despite these reservations we should welcome the fact that our European family is to be joined by a nation with a history dating back over 1300&#160;years.
I am sure Bulgaria will feel at home in the EU which is a Union of homelands. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like by way of introduction to make the members of the European Parliament privy to the hostage-taking in Athens today, to the hijacking of a bus with innocent citizens on their way to work.
Bulgaria made noteworthy progress in converting to a pluralistic democracy and functional market economy in keeping with European instructions at both political and economic level.
Further efforts should focus on stamping out corruption and efficiently combating organised crime.
I should like at this point to call on the European Commission, within the framework of the Community policy on border regions with candidate countries, to draft a new study on the repercussions which the integration of Bulgaria and Romania will have on the border regions of the Member States.
The policies and actions of the European Union to promote trans-national, trans-regional and cross-border cooperation and to combat the repercussions of enlargement on development and employment in border regions should be continued and reinforced.
Similarly, special care must be taken when distributing resources and preparing programmes for territorial cooperation in the new 2007-2013 programming period. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is the case that Bulgaria’s capacity to comply with the Community has increased considerably and is continuing to do so.
Furthermore, in order correctly to assess the progress made and thereby propose the changes still to be made, we should take account not just of the report of the European Commission, but also of the assessments of the different international bodies and other independent research centres, whose opinion may be of great assistance in analysing and evaluating Bulgaria’s capacity in these areas, with a view to its incorporation into the European Union.
Madam President, this is essentially the content of the amendment our committee is presenting to the report we are debating. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, congratulations to the rapporteur and congratulations to Bulgaria as well.
It has closed all the chapters and is an example and an inspiration to all its neighbours.
This is why I feel that it is important that when we are talking about Bulgaria, we should also pay some attention to Macedonia, which has already submitted its application for membership of the European Union and that the European Union itself should also take another step forward.
In an hour and a half's time, Commissioner, you will be meeting a delegation from Serbia and Montenegro.
I am talking about Turkey, a country we have supported today in saying ‘yes’ to the start of negotiations.
Bulgaria is the last country on the road to Turkey and I believe that it is right and proper that all of us who have a task to perform in this respect, should support all of these countries so that they can participate fully both economically and politically and bring about a further enlargement of the European Union. &#160;&#160; –Madam President, both the resolutions and opinions of the Commission and the Council giving the go-ahead for the integration of Bulgaria and Romania in future years clearly set out the objectives of European capital, which are already being realised, to annex these countries, plunder their wealth and their economy, exploit their workers to an unbelievable degree and convert them to NATO satellites, so that they can serve its aggressive policy.
The resolutions record, to a degree, certain aspects of the wretched and inhumane living conditions of the working classes in these countries and the poor grass-roots classes, but these are the result of the restoration of capitalism, which is eroding all the social rights achieved and, on the other hand, is concentrating wealth in the hands of a new plutocracy and foreign monopolies.
There are in fact two Bulgarias and two Romanias: on the one hand, the countries of luxury for the new plutocrats in Bulgaria and Romania and the foreigners who are literally plundering these countries and, on the other, the countries of two proud nations literally being dragged into misery and humiliation.
The consequences of the integration process and of the humiliating terms accepted by the governments of these countries are already visible.
You spoke to us of successes.
Purchasing power in Romania is 60% of what it was in 1989.
The objective of the new direction proposed in the resolutions and the new measures is to create better conditions, an institutional framework and infrastructures for the most unaccountable action by capital, the complete selling off of public property and land and the abolition of any social rights achieved.
The workers in these countries, together with the workers in Greece and other countries in Europe, must fight against the policy of the European Union and, more importantly, against the new tensions expected in the area as a result of the serious rivalry which is beginning to manifest itself. &#160;&#160; Madam President, this debate is, actually, a token of congratulation to Bulgaria, although it goes without saying that it still has many problems, and much remains to be dealt with.
After all, Bulgaria is a truly European country, straddling the old and new Europe, and deserves all our attention.
If you look at all the forecasts that have been made, funding for Bulgaria’s accession is nowhere to be found.
I should also like to address a critical comment to the Commission, which was right in saying that it needs more money than 1%.
If, however, we look at the proposals for agriculture, for example, we notice that those do not include a budget for agriculture in Bulgaria, while the development of the countryside in Bulgaria will play a key role in the development of that country itself.
I am therefore interested to hear how the Council intends to fund this accession and how we can ensure in a correct and proper manner that Bulgaria becomes a truly European country in 2007.
I am pleased to see that the Bulgarians, in terms of democratic thinking, are further advanced than many Members from the GUE/NGL Group. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like, now that accession negotiations have been concluded with Bulgaria, for us to start by highlighting and welcoming the huge efforts made by the Bulgarian people and the political forces in the country to push ahead with changes and reforms and incorporate the .
The accession of Bulgaria and Romania will close the circle of enlargement opened with the ten new countries.
Reactors 3 and 4 at the Kozloduy nuclear power station must close in 2006, in accordance with the commitment given by the Bulgarian authorities, and modernisation of nuclear installations with Community financing from the PHARE programme and from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development must continue normally.
In the sector of labour relations and labour law, additional reforms are needed for Bulgaria to approach European standards and overturn social exclusion practices which affect Community – and especially Greek – undertakings in border regions, where there is a serious problem with relocations.
Furthermore, deficits are recorded in the three sectors of combating organised crime, trafficking in human beings and controlling external borders and combating illegal immigration.
Finally, I should like to draw particular attention to the fact that more efficient procedures and greater transparency in the sector of public procurement and public works are needed, as is the safeguarding of equal treatment of all Community undertakings, including Greek undertakings.
Members said that there are still a lot of concerns.
That is precisely the reason why we have the framework, the procedure, with extra monitoring and an extra benchmark and, if necessary, an extra sanction, an extra safeguard for an extra year before the moment of accession.
With regard to the financial issue raised by Mr Maat and others, I do not think we need to be concerned.
I thank the rapporteur, Mr Van Orden, for his adequate and balanced report.
It is true that a joint Accession Treaty is being drafted for these countries.
I will speak next about corruption, which has attracted much attention in speeches.
Bulgaria has recently drawn up a determined strategy to act against corruption.
We are very closely monitoring this new legislation and the implementation of the action programme to support it.
I am also pleased that other European organisations, such as the Council of Europe, in the building next to ours, is giving attention to this issue and working to strengthen the status of the Roma.
I wish to thank the European Parliament for its support and counsel, and I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Van Orden, and Bulgaria, which hopefully will become an example to the entire Balkan region. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0061/2004) by Mr&#160;Moscovici, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Romania’s progress towards accession [2004/2184(INI)].
I should like to invite Mr&#160;Moscovici to take the floor, and to inform him that he may speak for five minutes. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the political context in which I am tabling this report has become clearer in recent weeks.
Last week the Commission was able to close accession negotiations with Romania on the last two chapters, namely justice and home affairs, and competition.
Moreover, legislative elections and then presidential elections have also been held in recent weeks, putting a different political party in power under conditions that have been recognised by all of the parties.
They are presented first with regard to the political criteria, and it is there without any doubt that the main difficulties lie.
I am thinking firstly of the freedom of information and expression, which is denied to a great many journalists.
On all of these problems – freedom of expression, corruption, the judicial and police systems – I believe that the European Parliament has a duty to be absolutely uncompromising.
The Commission has recognised that Romania satisfies the Copenhagen political criteria; the country has embarked on public administration reform, and constitutional reform is also underway.
The judicial system, as I have said, is starting to improve and we are also seeing progress on child protection – requested by our own Parliament, incidentally – even though it is possible to go further.
The third and final area is everything to do with the .
For my part, I think that the treaty should first be ratified and signed before it is renegotiated.
This assessment, which I hope is balanced, is the basis for the conclusions that I am recommending, and they are as follows: as things stand there is nothing to prevent a joint accession treaty – I repeat, a joint treaty – being signed for Romania and Bulgaria at the beginning of 2005 for accession in 2007.
Clearly this is a political decision, but Parliament and the Commission need to keep a close watch on developments through all of the follow-up actions and other reports that we can table here.
This morning we made the historic decision to open negotiations with Turkey.
As I said when referring to Bulgaria, it is a new step towards a really reunited Europe based on mutually accepted principles of democracy and the rule of law.
I will elaborate briefly on the process of closing the last challenging chapters with Romania and focus on the monitoring system developed to ensure a proper start for Romania within the European Union.
The two remaining chapters, which have been regarded as the most difficult ones – competition policy, and justice and home affairs – were technically closed by the General Affairs Council on 14 December 2004.
I believe we have been able to find appropriate solutions for all the issues raised in those final weeks through close and constructive cooperation between the Commission and the Council.
However, closing these two chapters means that the real work continues for the Romanians.
Over the next two years Romania will have to make real and sustained efforts in order to be truly ready for membership.
Good intentions are not enough: these must be matched by progress on the ground, in particular in the implementation of commitments.
The EU will of course continue to support the preparations at all levels: the Commission will enhance the monitoring of progress commitments undertaken in all areas of the .
Again, we only agreed to this now it is clear that Romania will abide by all the commitments and all the conditions set out in the EU's position.
In this context, I should recall the safeguards we have at our disposal.
In October 2005 the Commission will present to the Council a written report assessing Romania's progress in the area of competition policy.
Any serious shortcomings observed in this report regarding Romania's obligations under the Europe agreement and/or the fulfilment of the commitments can form the basis for a recommendation by the Commission to invoke safeguards, in particular the one postponing Romania's accession by one year.
Negotiations on this chapter have been long and detailed.
Romania has made a considerable number of firm commitments on all areas of the justice and home affairs .
There are several areas to which particular attention should be paid, such as implementation of the Schengen action plan; ensuring a high level of control and surveillance at the external borders of the Union; implementing the reform of the judiciary; stepping up the fight against corruption to ensure that corruption cases are dealt with in a swift and transparent manner; making considerable progress in filling the large number of vacancies in the police forces; as well as developing and implementing a coherent multiannual anti-crime strategy.
These issues have also been addressed in Mr Moscovici's report on Romania.
The Union will closely monitor Romania's implementation of all its commitments related to justice and home affairs, right up to the moment of accession in order to meet EU standards.
This includes adhering to the planned legislative schedule and taking further measures to develop the institutional and administrative capacity of all Romanian law enforcement authorities and of the judiciary.
If, however, any serious shortcomings are observed in the fulfilment by Romania of its commitments and in particular any of the specific commitments listed in the EU position, this can form the basis for invoking the safeguard clause postponing Romania's accession by one year.
I welcome the statement in the report by Mr Moscovici that the European Parliament will monitor the developments in Romania as well and encourage the new Romanian Government to fulfil all the commitments made during the negotiations.
It is quite clear that the report adopted by the European Parliament in March 2004 has fulfilled its purpose as a wake-up call to the Romanian Government.
I was delighted to learn that Parliament, in its latest report about Romania, could subscribe to the recommendations of the regular report of the Commission.
The Commission has always warmly welcomed the European Parliament’s constructive engagement in the process of Romania’s accession to the European Union.
I should also like to thank the Council for its productive cooperation.
Being tough and very demanding, it finally helped to bring about further progress in the accession negotiations.
Let me also point out that in the chapter concerning competition and state aids, the Commission was not able to propose a provisional closure of negotiations.
Moreover, in regard to justice and home affairs, the Council asked for more reassuring enforcement mechanisms.
Therefore, in close cooperation with the Netherlands presidency, the Commission worked out a proposal for a reinforced monitoring mechanism linked to safeguard clauses in these two areas: justice and home affairs, and competition and state aids.
I would like to emphasise here that I fully endorse the provisions of this clause.
Before closing, let me briefly touch upon the political situation in Romania.
I trust – and this is important for the European Union as well as for Romania – that the new president-elect and the forthcoming government in formation will be determined to continue with the reforms that are needed for Romania to accede to the European Union.
Let me conclude by saying that I endorse the conclusions of the report by your rapporteur, Mr&#160;Moscovici, which are, in general, in line with the 2004 Regular Report.
All of the financial aid will depend on these new financial perspectives, but from 2009.
I would also like to thank him for his open attitude and his spirit of compromise.
Mr President, in the last two years, Romania has made very significant progress on its journey towards integration with the European Union.
The closure of these negotiations is expected to be confirmed at the European Council this week, but it is clear that the work is not over.
Through this report, the European Parliament is saying yes to the integration of Romania, but it will be monitoring that country’s compliance with all of its commitments.
This Parliament must follow the efforts the Romanian authorities must make very closely.
On the positive side, the report clearly states that Romania meets the Copenhagen political criteria, that it has strengthened the stability of its institutions that guarantee State democracy and human rights, and that the situation has improved in the field of protection of human and ethnic rights, with regard to both the Hungarian minority and the Roma minority.
Naturally, Romania still has to make considerable efforts and make significant progress, however, before it can be accepted into the European Union.
Both Mr Nicolaï and Mr Rehn have referred to certain aspects in detail.
I should like to mention a few of them: the areas of justice and internal affairs, like everywhere in Eastern Europe, the fight against corruption and against organised crime, and also border controls.
In spite of everything, however, I believe that Romania is well on the way.
I believe that President Iliescu – as he retires from his second and final term of office – and his government, as well as Prime Minister Nastase, have concluded their work on a high note.
None of us would have dreamed five years ago, when the Helsinki Council declared Romania to be one of the 'regatta principle' countries, that she could have completed the chapters so rapidly and indeed so well.
I congratulate the Commission too for the very dedicated work which colleagues and I have seen carried out over the last few years.
While I understood and respected Mr Moscovici's support for Prime Minister Raffarin's request for an international commission to re-examine certain sensitive cases on humanitarian grounds where there have been problems with inter-country adoption, nonetheless, I wonder if colleagues might consider accepting my amendment to paragraph 17.
Perhaps Mr Moscovici and I could discuss this.
My group does not have any fundamental objections to Romania’s membership either, not even on 1 January 2007.
I am, in all honesty, surprised at the position of some groups.
The very same Members of this House who rightly attached great importance to human rights during the vote and discussions about Turkey, a country that is on the very threshold of negotiations, are, in the case of Romania, a country that is completing them, prepared to overlook just about anything where the same Copenhagen criteria are concerned.
There are yet other Members in this House whose view of reality has, quite honestly, been somewhat clouded by the fact that members of their parties are probably involved in reprehensible affairs, or because they hope that, after the recent elections in Romania, everything will be very different overnight.
I will give you two examples.
All NGOs, all the organisations that we always praise so highly – Transparency International, the Open Society Institute, the OECD – all have one message: corruption is still rife in Romania and should not be underestimated.
Of course, everyone here will state that corruption is to be combated, but how seriously can we take a party which has a majority in the Romanian parliament and a member of which – also a former minister – had to step down a few years ago on account of corruption, and is now vice-chairman of that same party and a candidate for the senate?
In my view, this, together with Amnesty International’s reports about the truly abominable treatment of psychiatric patients, can only lead to one conclusion, namely that Romania should wait for a little longer.
That is why I should like to ask the Commission why it should not draft a separate report next spring, for example, on the aspects which everyone, including the rapporteur, worry about, namely freedom of the press, corruption, independence of the judiciary?
Regrettably, that can only be applied to a number of specific areas, and freedom of the press is not one of them.
In my view, Parliament should not relinquish its power by giving the go-ahead now and, logically, doing the same thing in March.
In neighbouring Moldavia, which came under Russian rule in 1940, there was initial support for reunification, but, as Romania has little to offer at the moment, that support has now ebbed away.
In its previous composition, this parliament was extremely critical about the possibility of Romania fulfilling in the short term the current EU criteria in terms of democracy, human rights and the environment.
That is why it seemed certain that Romania would be joining later than Bulgaria, together with Croatia at the very earliest.
The fear that Romania might be humiliated and the EU’s ambition for speedy territorial expansion now appear more imperative than solving problems.
In an interview with the of 26 November, Basescu, who is at present the mayor of Bucharest, gave this explanation of why he is striving to turn his country round politically: ‘The problem is corruption which, in this country, has been elevated to a form of government’.
The report by Mr Moscovici is just as clear about Bucharest’s failings as it makes its way to Brussels, and we sincerely appreciate the way in which he has done this, quite rightly tracing Romania’s shortcomings in terms of all the accession criteria, including the political conditions.
Unfortunately, this report mentions these violations again in Paragraph 8.
Mr Basescu and his political sympathisers therefore have their work cut out.
Incidentally, in our regions, in Western Europe, we should take note of what Malin Bot has to say about the dubious role of Western publishers who have bought up many Romanian papers, and who, in his words, ‘do not come to Romania to defend democracy, but simply to make money’.
I hope that a new Romanian Government takes the European accession criteria entirely seriously from the word go.
Moreover, time goes on; it is fortunate, with the desired accession date of 1 January 2007 in mind, that the incoming President Basescu realises this all too well.
This House expects the Commission to strictly enforce the security mechanism agreed upon with Bucharest.
To finish off, I should like to draw Bucharest’s attention to one paragraph in the Moscovici report: ‘calls on it to speed up the restitution of property and adopt legislation on the restitution of churches’.
The Dutch Presidency has already made a pledge to that effect to its own parliament.
In a fine review in a German quality newspaper yesterday, I read a razor-sharp satire on the political degeneration of Romania under post-Communist rule.
The author aptly parodied the title of Prime Minister Nastase’s campaign document entitled: ‘From Karl Marx to Coca-Cola’, claiming that a document entitled ‘From Karl Marx to Al Capone’ would be just as truthful.
We very much hope that Romania, under President Basescu, will break this persistent political spell.
The surprising outcome of the second round of the presidential elections appears to be an encouraging sign of this. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Italian Socialist Party wishes the incoming President Basescu all the best in his work.
The countless young Romanians who have supported him over recent months and are jubilantly filling the squares and streets of Bucharest and the rest of the country are, regardless of their political affiliations, pinning on him their hopes for change and for a different, new and better future.
Mr Basescu has a difficult and yet rather exciting task ahead of him: to steer his country on the new courses of modernisation, anti-corruption measures and full compliance with human and civil rights, as well as the permanent adoption of democratic structures.
We must demand a concrete commitment from the government on this issue.
Everything possible has to be done, then, to ensure that every child in Romania, as in Europe and the rest of the world, has the right to a peaceful, happy childhood and the right to smile with hope for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have been a Romania-watcher for five years now, ever since I took up the case of a London constituent of mine, Prince Carol Mircea.
He demonstrated clearly to me that the Romanian Government, through its Prosecutor General, had repeatedly intervened on one side – allegedly under instructions from President Iliescu – of the civil case against Carol's half brother, ex-King Michael of Romania.
Romania is far from perfect and the fight against corruption and organised crime will be priority number one for the new government.
I welcome the Romanian Government's decision to establish an international committee to resolve this delicate issue.
As Vice-President of the Ukraine Delegation, I believe that outstanding disputes such as the issue of territorial claims by Romania over tiny Snake Island in the Black Sea, which is currently under Ukrainian control, need to be resolved before 2007.
Good relations with Ukraine, which is now establishing itself as a fully-fledged European democracy, are important for the future.
I believe Romania will be ready to join the European Union by 1 January 2007 with Bulgaria.
Lastly, of course, there are the safeguard clauses which allow date slippage if Romania falls short of its requirements under the ; but nevertheless I fully support the Moscovici report and look forward to Romania joining us in the 25 Member States by 2007. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Moscovici on his very objective and well-balanced report.
That is why I can say that it is in our national interest for Romania to accede in two years’ time.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Nastase Government, which has done a great deal to bring about the historic reconciliation between Romania and Hungary.
It is true that in all honesty much remains to be done, but considerable progress has been made over the last ten years.
I should like to stress three key issues that need to be resolved.
The first is genuine decentralisation, and a real devolvement of power to the regions.
I do not wish to make the implementation of different forms of autonomy a prerequisite to Romania’s accession, but it would be helpful to open negotiations with the new government, namely tripartite negotiations between the Romanian Government, the Hungarian parliamentary party and the Hungarian Government, as was done in the case of South Tyrol and the Åland Islands in Finland.
The European Union offers helpful precedents here.
I therefore hope that the newly-elected leaders, President and Government of Romania will set about facing the challenges before them with redoubled effort.
The first one, where there are considerable deficiencies, is the social integration of the Romanian Romany minority comprising of over two million people, who are in a very difficult situation.
The second one is giving a higher priority to environmental issues, since the state of the environment in Romania is far behind that of the other candidate countries.
Let me remind you of the very dangerous mining project of Rosia Montana, threatening us with severe environmental disaster.
I therefore think that Mr Basescu’s demand that two chapters should be reopened for negotiations is highly risky.
Romania has made great sacrifices in order to be able to work towards becoming a member of the Union.
This is why I find this topic so crucial and ask the Commissioner and the Commission to continuously monitor Romania’s progress in this matter, as it is not only in our best interest but also in the interest of Romanian citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the environmental sphere, Romania at present lags very far behind in terms of what is required by EU legislation.
The delegation examined quite a few of the more controversial projects, and our view was confirmed: the pace of reform in the environmental sphere needs urgently to be stepped up.
It concerns Rosia Montana, a proposal to construct Europe’s largest gold mine in Romania.
The issue is that of whether Romania will comply with current EU legislation, for example the provisions governing environmental impact assessments and the water directive.
The issue is also that of whether Romania will successfully comply with the forthcoming new directive on waste from mines and its environmental repercussions.
This morning, with great aplomb, this Parliament gave the green light to the procedure for Turkey’s preparation to join the European Union.
I am in favour of Romania’s accession for exactly the same reasons that have led me to express my strong hostility to Turkey’s entry.
I have just listened to the speech by a spokesman for a political party that voted for the accession of Turkey, who repeated the harsh remarks made by NGOs about respect for human rights in Romania.
It is, however, absolutely necessary to call the Romanian authorities’ attention to the urgent question of illegal immigration.
We have to put a stop to illegal immigration, and Romania has to defend its external borders and actively collaborate in stamping out this activity, which does no credit to the civilisation of Eugen Ionescu, Mircea Eliade and the many other great writers and thinkers of a civilisation that we feel is close to us and which we share. &#160;&#160; Romania’s citizens have a place in the European Union, there is no question about it.
One of the reasons why we mutually need each other is because through accession, the underlying principles of the Union, decentralisation and local self-government may help improve prospects for the future of the Hungarian minority there, including one and a half million people.
The Union seems to be more lenient towards Romania than it was towards those countries that joined in May.
As a Hungarian delegate, I feel obligated to list the temporary exemptions in the field of environmental protection that Romania asked for.
Regular progress checks are very important, and Parliament must also take part in this process, so that by the time Romania joins the Union, we can feel reassured and confident as to their preparedness.
I belong to those who most sincerely hope that our doubts will be scattered by Romania’s positive performance in the near future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my view, last Sunday's presidential elections have indeed demonstrated that democracy in Romania is very vibrant and is also working well.
All we can do is hope.
I was a member of the Delegation to the EU-Romania Joint Parliamentary Committee from 1999 to 2004.
If we compare 1999 and today, the country has obviously made substantial progress.
Notwithstanding all the criticism in specific areas, it must be said that the previous government under Anastase achieved a great deal for Romania.
Major progress has genuinely been made in many areas.
I can only repeat what many of my fellow Members have said: an independent judiciary – which means a judiciary which is independent of the executive and individual political forces – is in fact a prerequisite for Romania's cooperation within the EU.
I also hope that corruption can be combated more effectively.
In order to complete the negotiations, it simply needs to fulfil the prescribed conditions and criteria, so it is quite beyond me why the Commission should, with a straight face, claim that Romania meets the Copenhagen political criteria, while at the same time it reports extensively on the influence the executive power exerts over the outcome of court cases and confirms that corruption is still rife and discrimination – including that against the Roma – is still very much on the agenda.
It appears that this House’s rapporteur, too, does not have any problem with stating in the first paragraph of his report that Romania meets the political criteria, while going on, later on in the report – and rightly so – to express his concern about a few crucial points.
The rapporteur goes on to draw the conclusion – which I regard as improbable – that a satisfactory conclusion of the negotiations before the end of 2004 is both desirable and feasible.
My common sense leads me to a completely different conclusion, namely that Romania has not gone that far yet and, consequently, negotiations cannot be concluded satisfactorily before the end of 2004.
The working method that we now see in the process with Romania will, sooner or later, result in the erosion of our community based on the rule of law and in the weakening of the Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the June List will welcome Romania and Bulgaria as Members of the European Union, just as we shall welcome Turkey, the countries of the Western Balkans and, in time, Ukraine and, hopefully, Belarus.
The enlargement involving ten countries that has just been carried out and of which the June List was a sincere supporter is, already for its part, causing problems.
Accepting poor countries such as Romania into an EU that continues to operate an absurd agricultural policy and a poorly managed structural policy and that is itself wrestling with difficulties in preventing waste and corruption in its own system would be dangerous for the future of the European project.
It might also prove dangerous for Romania.
Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne did well to recall the position from which Romania started and the reasons that have made progress so difficult for that country.
Even so, Mr&#160;Moscovici has also pointed out the limitations and shortcomings that characterise Romania’s situation today.
In the case of Romania, we also have a safeguard clause, which was not provided in the other cases.
I therefore believe it is only fair to give that country the chance to do its utmost over the next two years so that it can be ready when the time comes to actually join our Union.
If we were to ask people in the streets of our countries to say how afraid they often felt of criminal gangs, we would surely be inclined to encourage the Romanian Government to do more in that direction.
As Mr&#160;Leinen rightly recalled, the fight against corruption is widespread in the countries joining our Union.
This is a subject that I have addressed extensively in recent years, together with Baroness Nicholson.
I believe that that is what we all wish for, because only with stability can there be any hope of seeing Romania ready to meet its commitments. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;Nicolaï, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to congratulate Mr&#160;Moscovici on his excellent report, which is indeed, as he said, both honest and clear and does not ignore the shortcomings and failings that we can all still see in the case of Romania, like those associated with the freedom of the press, which is seriously deficient – and I am choosing my words carefully – the delays in ensuring that the judicial and police systems function independently and the corruption which is still all too prevalent.
I mentioned them and our rapporteur has clearly indicated where they lie, and said that considerable improvements are essential.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am fairly well acquainted with Romania and have had the opportunity on several occasions to urge those in positions of authority from all political sides to speed up work on implementing the reforms and transposing the necessary legislation and regulation.
Like the majority of the members of my group, I will be voting in favour of the recommendations in the Moscovici report.
I will be doing so not only because of my feelings for Romania, where I have many excellent friends, but also because, having visited the country as long ago as February 1990 and seen fresh evidence of the violence of the end of the previous year, I can fully appreciate how far it has already come.
My positive attitude remains fundamentally an attitude of vigilant friendship.
I am most grateful to Mr Lagendijk for his demand in this respect, even though we have arrived at different conclusions for Turkey.
In my view, this obviously means that we must dispense with a few of our dogmas.
The first is that deadlines which have been mooted at some point in the past are now regarded as more sacred than the progress made or the realities of the situation.
Secondly – and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am directing these remarks specifically to you, as we had the pleasure of discussing the budget, among other things, with you – we are talking about a period for which we still have no budget, as we have yet to adopt a new Financial Perspective to cover the period from 1&#160;January 2007.
We cannot argue that Europe is continually expanding and its agenda is becoming longer, while money is becoming increasingly tight.
According to the majority of Members of this House, this is not the precondition for the opening of negotiations.
We are deceiving ourselves if we proceed on the basis that monitoring processes and clauses which are built in but will never come into force because they require unanimity in the Council are enough to justify our confidence and convince us that everything will work out just fine.
That is why I am appealing to you, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, in relation to the drafting of the presidency conclusions on Friday.
However, you are responsible for ensuring that we do not deceive ourselves every six months.
I appeal to the House as well: let us take an honest vote on this issue tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we like to talk about a Europe of values.
Once applicants are allowed through the EU door, the Commission is deprived of its best weapons to secure change.
Romania should join the European Union, but it should do when it meets the values of the EU.
It would be a grave mistake to set a date for accession now. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, maybe Bulgaria and Romania are being wronged by our debating Turkey's accession prospects over the last few days in the European Parliament – and shall also be doing so in the European Union, at the European Council, in a few days' time.
I believe that forecasts on the subject of Turkey are overshadowing both the expression and the weighting of our political word.
Ladies and gentlemen, by my reading, Romania has made significant progress, especially in such a short space of time, in coming into line with political and economic accession criteria.
Nonetheless, we should not overlook the need for further radical reform, focusing on the efficient combating of corruption and changes in the public administration and in the judicial system, in the aim of securing truly independent justice.
In addition, further measures need to be taken in the sectors of border controls, asylum and immigration policy and more drastic action to combat organised crime and corruption.
At economic level, it is considered necessary, , to safeguard macro-economic stability, rationalise the role of the state in the economy and introduce efficient regional and rural development policies and policies for greater regional integration and cooperation with the countries of south-eastern Europe.
My personal appraisal is that, with the support of the European Commission and with the precondition, of course, of more intense effort, it is feasible that Romania will be able to comply more fully with the criteria and the values and principles of the Union and sign an accession agreement at the same time as Bulgaria. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I wish to thank my colleague, Mr&#160;Moscovici, for an excellent report, and one that takes account of different points of view.
Problems have been mentioned here today relating to Romania’s home affairs and issues of justice.
I wish to emphasise the importance of promoting human rights in the future.
Unfortunately, even the credibility of the present Member States suffers on this issue.
In my opinion, that is a very important point.
That is why Romania cannot be compared to other countries, because the after-effects of this twofold oppression are still being felt.
Our report does not mention the issue of the , which nevertheless presents a significant problem in terms of human resources.
The progress made towards accession to the European Union should be considered from two different viewpoints: the desire of the political classes for change and the ability to achieve it in practice.
It is only 15&#160;years since the revolution in Romania, which could just as easily have led to a civil war.
Although President Iliescu and President Constantinescu, a one-time member of this European People’s Party, have not managed to put in place all of the necessary reforms, we must nevertheless acknowledge that they have brought relative institutional stability to the country.
Mr&#160;President, 2007 will in any case be a great year for Romania because in 2007 a Romanian city, Sibiu, will share the title of European Capital of Culture with Luxembourg.
This proposal was made by the Luxembourg Government, and was the subject of a joint decision by the Council of Ministers and the Commission.
The rich multicultural and multiethnic Romanian heritage will certainly enrich the culture of Europe, and Romania should also be seen from the point of view of its cultural riches and the potential of its population, which has been badly bruised by the madness of a dictator and the damaging effects of a totalitarian ideology.
Mr&#160;President, this morning I voted in favour of starting negotiations with Turkey.
I believe that our rapporteur has drawn the right conclusions in his report, and I am grateful to him. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Moscovici for his excellent report.
We therefore welcome the successes and steady improvement that Romania has achieved in meeting the Copenhagen criteria in the various fields, as Mr&#160;Moscovici has indicated, emphasising, , its respect for its minorities, both Hungarian and Roma.
Romania must, however, make rapid progress to fulfil all the accession commitments, especially in the area of the Community .
Structural measures are not enough to combat poverty.
The rapporteur, Mr Moscovici, Mr Meijer and others made some remarks about signals from Romania that the president-elect wants to renegotiate the results.
In a short reply to Mr Ferber about the financial consequences of accession, I repeat what I said about Bulgaria.
The financial consequences are already arranged in the financial package for 2007-2009, irrespective of the new financial perspective.
I thank him for this and I wish to stress that in future this should be a guiding principle in all enlargement policy.
My view is that after last year’s major setback we shall now be proceeding gradually and steadily in terms of the enlargement of the European area of peace and democracy.
Romania’s new government will have a golden opportunity to demonstrate that it can genuinely fulfil its commitments and reform the country’s society and institutions.
Mr&#160;Davies and Mrs&#160;Jäätteenmäki pointed out that the current Member States also have much to do to develop the rule of law.
Rather, it would be better to address these problems via the infringement procedure or present a case using the machinery of the European Court of Human Rights.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Moscovici.
I agree with the view expressed by both him and Mr&#160;Szent-Ivány that it is in the interests of both the European Union and Romania that Romania is ready by 2007.
The Commission, for its part, will give all the support it can to ensure that Romania strengthens its efforts so as to pre-empt the use of the safeguard clauses referred to just now. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I should first like to clarify the following: according to our Rules of Procedure, when a Member who is scheduled to ask a question cannot be here, he or she must personally request a replacement to speak on his or her behalf.
The requests for replacement by the Members who asked Questions Nos 4 and 7, Mr&#160;Aylward and Mr Ryan, are therefore not accepted, and if at the time of the questions concerned those Members are not here, the questions will be deemed to have lapsed.
Many businesses from the new Member States which import aluminium from Russia and the CIS have appealed to their MEPs for action be taken to drop or reduce the 6% duty, given that the economic situation in this branch of Polish industry has deteriorated significantly as a result, with higher production costs and higher product prices, leading to a fall in the competitiveness of Polish companies in the harsh environment of the European market.
With your permission, I should like to make known my dissatisfaction at the alarming muddle that exists with regard to this issue, as well as the bureaucratic hurdles, which may well be intentional.
Therefore, the Pyrenees/Mediterranean Euroregion could benefit from the support of this Community initiative, subject to the procedures established by the Commission.
This proposal is currently being examined by the preparatory bodies within the Council and also has to be considered by the European Parliament within the framework of the codecision procedure. &#160;&#160; I would like to point out that there are more than a hundred Euroregions in Europe and that, in fact, through the impetus of INTERREG, the Community initiative which is right now going also to become an objective, they are of particular interest.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he believes that Euroregions such as the Pyrenees-Mediterranean are fundamental, both in terms of promoting the disappearance of the borders which represent barriers to economic and social development, and in terms of giving substance to the principle of territorial cohesion, which is now enshrined in the European Constitution, which has been signed by the 25 representatives of the Governments of the Member States, and which therefore deserves every possible support from the Union? &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have, on occasions, received complaints from the European regions that it is the Governments of the States that distribute the Cohesion Funds and also the regional element of the Structural Funds, and on occasions those regions of the same political colour as the Government of the State receive favourable treatment.
The second one aims to identify future infrastructure services needed to support the pan-European eGovernment Services.
In its response to this and other similar incidents, the Council has consistently supported a dual approach: on the one hand, incorporating the provisions of international conventions into Community law and thus ensuring stricter compliance with the highest global standards and, on the other hand, adopting specific Community provisions wherever IMO standards are lacking or insufficient.
Secondly, there were those under the Erika II package aimed at the establishment of a Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system and the creation of a European Maritime Safety Agency whose main role is to monitor the effectiveness of the EU maritime safety rules in general.
For improving security in the wake of a number of terrorist outrages, a regulation on enhancing ship and port facilities security was adopted earlier this year, incorporating the SOLAS ISPS measures into EU legislation and expanding them to include domestic traffic.
This first question is also on another issue.
Member States' police and judicial authorities are already actively cooperating in the fight against all types of crime.
The Council has adopted various instruments on cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, notably in the context of mutual recognition and enforcement.
There is too little cooperation between Member States on this kind of growing crime and we know that our European citizens expect us, as parliamentarians, to question you on how effective you can be in solving this kind of cross-border issue. &#160;&#160; I want to reinforce the points just made by my colleague.
Member States and the Community have contributed to the humanitarian relief efforts with more than EUR 325&#160;million.
Almost 60 per cent of the total cost of the expanded AU mission is financed by a contribution of some EUR 80 million from the peace facility, and several Member States are providing additional financial and logistical support for the mission as well as planners and military observers.
The Council has repeatedly, most recently on the occasion of its meeting on 22 November, confirmed its readiness to continue to provide support for the deployment of the mission in terms of financing, logistics and material, as well as personnel if requested.
The Council considers that the deployment of the expanded AU mission in Darfur, together with the EU-led negotiations between the parties to find a political solution for Darfur, offers an opportunity for a comprehensive solution to the Darfur conflict.
In parallel to these efforts, the EU has contributed to the pressure from the international community on all parties to guarantee free and unconditional access for humanitarian aid and to ensure the security of the civilian population.
In line with Resolutions 1556 and 1564 of the UN Security Council, the Council has also on several occasions reiterated its willingness to take appropriate measures, including sanctions, if no progress is achieved on the commitments made by the Sudanese Government. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank you for your outline of the situation in the Sudan.
It may have gone from the headlines, but the problem is still there. &#160;&#160; .
The Council will continue to monitor the situation in Darfur and will consider taking appropriate measures, which could include sanctions in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1556 and 1565 if no tangible progress is achieved in this respect.
In this context the Council underlined that, with regard to road safety enforcement, priority should be given, notably, to driver behaviour that causes high accident risks or could have severe consequences such as driving under the influence of alcohol. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank the Council for its answer, but I am clearly unhappy to hear that the issue is falling into a black hole between the Commission and the Council.
I thought I had explained the many actions and things we, as a Council, have done to show our commitment to this issue.
The recent Kok report once again highlighted the need to make good the under-performance in relation to this target.
Firstly, it is clearly possible to fund research while respecting the Pact.
Finally, I would like to recall that the Pact is a framework for the management of budgetary policies at global level, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of public finances over the longer term.
When the Ecofin Council discussed the Pact on 16 November 2004 and this precise issue was raised, there was a broad majority of Member States against pursing the possibility suggested by the Member and excluding certain categories of expenditure from deficit calculations.
In the analytical assessment of the reasons for an excessive deficit, the Council will always take into account the type of expenditure and the likely long-term impact.
But the Council does not share the honourable Member's assessment regarding the exclusion of R[amp]D expenditure from deficit calculations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I might have agreed with everything Mr Nicolaï said if I did not believe that we cannot achieve the Lisbon objectives unless research makes a great deal of progress.
Second, even Germany and France with their well-known budgetary problems have already achieved rates of 2.5% and 2.2% respectively.
I believe that this is the last time that you will be with us for questions to the Council, Mr Nikolaï, and I should like to offer you my best wishes and thanks for your work with Parliament during your Presidency.
Questions Nos 12 to 31 will be answered in writing. &#160;&#160; Firstly, I must inform you that, following the invitations for the presentation of the candidatures for the post of European Ombudsman, the deadline for which was 30 September of this year, four candidatures have been presented, of which two will be put forward, namely, those of Mr Nikiforos Diamandouros and Mr Giuseppe Fortunato.
The European Parliament is an extremely important partner for the Commission in this area of work, and so I am keen to follow in the footsteps of my predecessor, Mr&#160;Patten, in pursuing a comprehensive and regular dialogue with you on shared issues and concerns.
The purpose of today's decision is to safeguard the legal basis for the continued existence of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights beyond the end of the year.
It will only be possible for the Council to adopt a positive decision before the Regulation expires if the European Parliament votes in favour of the draft resolution proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs today.
In my view, this is in everyone's enlightened interest; it is also in the political interests of the three institutions involved in the legislative process, and, above all, it is in the practical interests of those whom the projects supported by the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights are intended to benefit, namely civil societies and citizens in numerous countries around the world.
The European Initiative is a well-functioning instrument: this is borne out by the statistics on the use of its budget funds as well as by almost all the human rights organisations which pay tribute to the Initiative and its valuable work.
It is widely regarded as a successful instrument which provides direct support for civil society in many third countries where human rights violations and, above all, a lack of democratic development are endemic.
The Initiative supports numerous innovative and relevant projects, such as the abolition of the death penalty, torture prevention and rehabilitation of torture victims, the advancement of the rights of women – an issue which is especially dear to me – as well as campaigning for the rights and interests of children, indigenous people and other marginalised groups, and strengthening international law.
I agree with the House, Mr President, that the Initiative must be effective and well-managed.
The Commission will therefore scrutinise with attention and interest all the proposals put forward by this House which aim to achieve greater efficiency, the simplification of procedures and the effective use of resources.
To this end, let me give you my assurances that a meaningful, open and, above all, regular dialogue will take place between Parliament and the Commission.
I believe that this dialogue will offer us the opportunity for joint discussion of the political and objective priorities of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
Your support for the democracy movement in Ukraine or the forthcoming EU Election Observer Mission to Palestine, the West Bank and Gaza are eloquent examples, and all I can say is that I believe we will work well together here.
Let me conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by expressing my hope that Parliament and the Commission will agree on the modalities for this further dialogue as swiftly as possible in order to develop genuinely fruitful cooperation in this field in everyone's interest.
Twelve years ago I was rapporteur and, as Mr Patten has described me, 'father' of the European initiative for democracy and human rights, which proved to be instrumental in helping the transitional ex-Soviet bloc countries.
In 1999 I visited some of them in Belgrade, including key pro-democracy media, such as Radio B92.
The same year the initiative was taken in-house by the Commission.
The resulting policy invites our neighbours to the east and south to share in the peace, stability and prosperity that we enjoy in the European Union.
However, the United States National Endowment for Democracy has shown since 1982 that the two can be combined.
I recently put together a document detailing the European Parliament's pro-democracy activities, both within the EU and externally.
Last weekend's G8 Conference in Rabat – and I am delighted that the Commissioner was present – co-financed by the European Union, further developed plans for the Forum for the Future, first introduced at the Sea Island Summit in June 2004, to promote democracy in the Middle East and North Africa.
I sincerely hope that there will be a greater focus on the 250&#160;million Arabs who want democracy, as illustrated by the 2002 United Nations Development Report, as well as the manifestly failing countries to our east.
Mr McMillan-Scott has gone over this Regulation, a regulation that clearly demonstrates all our virtues – our many virtues – and also many of our problems.
The Commission and the Council are well aware that this regulation is highly valued by Parliament.
I hope that this will now be corrected, on the basis of the application of the Regulation, which provides the Commission with the funds necessary for the application of an effective instrument, as this one is, for promoting democracy and human rights. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, promoting democracy and human rights in the world should be one of the priorities of the EU’s external relations.
After a number of years’ experience, I should like to make some observations.
Firstly, Parliament should be more involved in programmes specifically developed and supported in this field.
The amendments that have been proposed to the regulation will address this question sufficiently, provided, of course, the Commission accepts them in the right spirit and makes a broad and extensive interpretation of the new guidelines, thereby taking relations with Parliament to a more open and closer level.
Firstly, are we going to dilute these instruments into more and more areas, more lines and more themes, or are we first going to set out a clear strategy, and then concentrate on a guideline that drives us forward and on fundamental priorities?
The concept of human rights is increasingly broad and also sometimes more vague.
There are many other instruments for policies on cooperation and development with third countries, but these instruments of the European initiative for democracy and human rights are highly political and should be focused primarily on promoting democracy and that fundamental nucleus of civic and political rights, freedom of conscience and religion, freedom of expression and debate, the separation of powers and the rule of law, freedom of organisation and activity of political parties and civil society, the opportunity to hold free and fair elections and the vitality of open and plural societies.
We must also be capable, however, of setting out priorities as regards the regions of the world or countries with particular strategic impact on the actions that we support, for various reasons: firstly, because the country concerned is our immediate neighbour and therefore our most immediate security is at stake; secondly, because these are situations that can have a positive snowball effect at local level, in terms of establishing democracy and stability; thirdly, because in those areas of the world with particularly knotty problems we can find the weak spot that can be unravelled into democratic transformation; fourthly, because there are special historical links and cultural ties that bring us together; and fifthly, because our help can make all the difference in the short term and can have an instantly positive impact.
To conclude, we must also ask ourselves if we are going to take the path of increasing bureaucracy and officialdom in carrying out these policies, or will we be able to make those instruments more agile?
This evening Parliament is being asked to approve the extension of the specific human rights and democracy programme for two years.
In other words, Commissioner, this Parliament is asking to be involved in defining the guidelines for our actions and in judging the effectiveness of the results we obtain.
We hope, however, that from tomorrow this will become a daily dialogue – not just a formality but a dialogue of substance – to assess the decisions that have been made and to define the objectives that we set ourselves. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should start with the very timely question posed quite rightly by Mr&#160;Fava regarding the dialogue between our institutions.
This proposal, the offer of dialogue, is clearly one that Parliament will jump at, because, as you know, the Members of this House are eager to have the opportunity to engage in in-depth discussions about the direction and ongoing monitoring of this initiative and to receive information about programming.
Ladies and gentlemen, the ball is in our court and I am sure that the Commission would be delighted to see a proposal emanate from our ranks, from our committees and groups, in short from our Parliament, so that this dialogue can get underway very quickly, because it is urgently needed, with a group of Members who are well-motivated and have some expertise on this issue, and there is no shortage of such people in this institution.
In addition, I would add that the aid that is given to NGOs in this way is perceived on the ground as being neutral, that is to say that the European Union is not providing these grants in a bid to dominate or take over and is not perceived as doing so, contrary to the claims made when American agencies work on the ground, with such claims very often heard in Maghreb, in any case.
The governments of third countries which do not wish to see democratic movements develop in their midst are not lacking in resources or imagination.
All of the decisions have been taken, but these NGOs are prevented from benefiting from the funds granted to them.
And there, as other Members have rightly done, I would draw attention to the fact that we will need to work within this Parliament to ensure that this precious asset, that we can always improve, is able to endure beyond 2006.
That is what is at stake in the debates that we are going to have to hold at various different levels within this Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to welcome the Commissioner and I particularly appreciate the fact that she is a woman.
I fully agree with the need to extend the implementing arrangements relating to human rights, development and democracy.
I should like to say to my very likeable fellow Member Mr&#160;McMillan-Scott that I understand his frustration and I agree about this precious project, as Mrs&#160;Flautre put it.
The questions of torture, training and recovery, as well as the question of the empowerment of women have been extremely important.
The European Parliament’s role is becoming ever more important within the EU institutions, and its authority is becoming ever greater amongst the public in the Member States.
Yet we should not derive satisfaction from the strengthening of Parliament’s role as a result of battles of competence or procedure within the European Union.
It would cost a great deal more to provide assistance to the victims of civil and international wars that break out because politicians in many countries do not understand the meaning of democracy.
In conclusion, I should like to offer my sincere thanks to Mr&#160;McMillan-Scott, the rapporteur, for his work.
I hope the House will continue to work together on this issue, regardless of political divisions, and that it will work towards the goals referred to by Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner and the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I join with others in welcoming the new Commissioner to this debate.
We look forward to working with her and, indeed, we look forward to the Commission's plans in 2005 and 2006 on this budget line, the legal base for which we expect to confirm tomorrow.
I also support the fact that the Commission is planning to make conflict prevention a permanent priority for this budget line.
Perhaps the Commissioner will choose not to do that in forthcoming years.
Indeed, as Mrs Flautre has said, I hope that, whilst there are proper objectives for simplification of the budget, this particular line has symbolic importance and will be maintained in the medium and long term.
That is a mistake: human rights are universal in our world.
Firstly, let me say to the Vice-President, Mr McMillan-Scott, that if he had not already invented this interesting procedure, we would have to invent it now.
In other words, you can count on the fact that you are dealing with someone who really believes in what they are doing.
Let me say again that there will be genuine dialogue, not only at my level but also at working level.
Let me reiterate: I am particularly pleased – and I think this is a fortunate coincidence – that I was able to present seven action plans recently to the Commission and again here in Parliament on Monday.
Then, of course, there are the major countries in the Middle East which are ready for this process, notably Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia, Palestine and Israel.
The presentation of these seven action plans at this time offers a really good opportunity, in my view, to work together with and on these countries.
Naturally, the action plans also offer opportunities for us to present our priorities alongside the countries' own priorities and promote democracy and human rights.
Campaign 2, which is especially dear to me, is entitled 'Fostering a culture of human rights': human rights education, training, monitoring and awareness-raising by targeting advancement of rights of marginalised or vulnerable groups – that means the rights of women and children – including female genital mutilation, trafficking of women, human rights defenders; torture prevention and rehabilitation of torture victims, programmes of higher education and training for professionals, support for human rights dialogues.
Campaign 3 is entitled 'Promoting democratic process'.
So there is a lot of development of participatory democracy, fostering informed pluralistic discourse with civil society, targeting freedom of association, freedom of expression, independent press, broadcasting, unimpeded access to the Internet, and election observation missions.
Campaign 4 is entitled 'Advancing equality, tolerance and peace', embraces the issues of racial discrimination, xenophobia, rights of minorities, indigenous peoples.
All that is foreseen for 2007, and in the next financial perspective there will be only six finance regulations, four of which are very important ones: enlargement, development, good neighbourhood policy and stability.
So we will have three phases: firstly, two phases in the Commission, and then we will confer with Parliament.
It is true that we have been working for ten years with the countries of the Middle East, the southern basin of the Mediterranean.
The United States is now doing something similar.
According to the information I have, for reasons of juridical coherence, the Council has now reintroduced the amendments tabled by Parliament when Regulations (EC) Nos 975/1999 and 976/1999 were at the drafting stage.
I mentioned Belarus, and also Tunisia and Iran: two other countries where nothing is happening.
I also welcome her commitment to establish some working-level cooperation between Parliament and the Commission.
I advise the Commission that this week the European Parliament, through the good offices of the Human Rights Subcommittee, is commissioning a study by independent experts into the operation of this programme.
May I make one final remark, since I know the Commissioner was in Rabat at the weekend and we are dealing with a vast and important agenda: the process of reform in the Middle East.
When I began working on this report, the funds available from the European Initiative on Democracy and Human Rights to the entire Middle East were four per cent of the total.
Given the circumstances of the last three years, that was an extraordinarily low figure.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mr Papadimoulis on the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 1999/847/EC as regards the extension of the Community action programme in the field of civil protection. &#160;&#160; .
Before I go into detail on this report, I think it is worth recalling the work done under the auspices of this action plan since its adoption in December 1999.
The objectives of the civil protection action programme are to help to ensure better protection for people, the environment and property in the event of natural or technological disasters across the Community.
The action programme has funded a range of useful projects, exchanges of experts and workshops that build invaluable cooperation and also mutual assistance between the Member States' civil protection services.
The action programme supports and supplements efforts at national, regional and local levels.
This year we were shocked by the violent terrorist attack in Madrid and saddened by the earthquakes in Iran and Morocco.
The report argues for an improved operational framework for volunteers and for the establishment of guidelines for their work.
This is a helpful suggestion and echoes the emphasis that the Commission is now putting on the work on this subject, which was and will remain a priority for financing in 2005.
Finally, the report asks the Commission to provide a report on the programme in 2006.
May I add that my colleague, Commissioner Dimas, sends his apologies for not being here.
He is in Buenos Aires and asked me to replace him. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this report comes, as the Commissioner noted, after a series of major natural disasters in recent years which raise the question of the need to strengthen the Community action programme: floods, heat-waves, forest fires, earthquakes, serious pollution incidents from toxic waste or oil spills, such as that from the , as well as serious industrial accidents and also terrorist attacks.
The Community response to this problem is the Community action programme in the field of civil protection.
This programme expires in a few days, on 31 December 2004, and we need to approve this proposal which I have prepared, in order to avoid a gap until such time as the new programme is prepared.
I agree, but it is absolutely essential in order to finance increased needs due to enlargement and to finance the action programme to combat marine pollution which has been decided in the meantime.
This programme therefore needs to proceed and, at the same time, certain points in it need to be improved on the basis of experience obtained to date.
The European People’s Party also believes that the Commission ought to evaluate the implementation of the current programme before it ends and prepare a report to be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council.
Our confidence in the new Commission, however, leads us to hope that these reports will be forwarded by the requested date of 30&#160;June 2006, precisely for the purpose – and in the hope – of promoting full cooperation between the European Parliament and the Commission.
Those documents should give us an evaluation of the extent of the Community action programme in the field of civil protection, together with the actions planned under the other two ongoing Community programmes, which will provide Parliament’s Committee on the Environment with useful suggestions for inclusion in the single action programme that we hope the Commission will put in place for 2007-2013. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, happily we all agree on this issue and, consequently, I also share what has been said by previous speakers.
The importance of civil protection continues to grow.
Such was the case of the accident, the floods in the South of France, the terrorist attack on Madrid and the forest fires in Spain and Portugal.
In Portugal alone, for example, in 2003, 400&#160;000 hectares of forest were burnt and approximately 170&#160;000 hectares in 2004.
It is therefore essential that the next action instrument provides for greater financial support.
We have reached the end of the current programme without a lasting, concrete solution to the problem.
I feel I have developed some modest experience in this field, as I chair the civil protection committee in Catania, the province of Italy most exposed to seismic and volcanic risk, and also because I coordinated the emergency measures for the Italian Government during the terrible eruption of Mount Etna in the summer of 2001.
I believe I can say that the European Union is seriously and scandalously dragging its feet in this area.
In fact, the approach seems schizophrenic not only at a logistical level but also because of the inadequate financial cover.
This sort of programme brings European institutions, national and local agencies and local authorities into direct cooperation, something in which we are lagging behind, both at national level and in terms of coordination between the European Union and the national agencies.
I note the increase in the budget from the action programme in the field of civil protection for 2005 and 2006 but, like other speakers who have contributed to this debate, when I examine the increase I note that it is a mere EUR 0.9 million for each of the years 2005 and 2006.
When one considers the fact that we are increasing the size of our Community and welcoming the accession of 10 new Member States to our Community, in real terms the so-called increase is actually a decrease; that is without factoring in inflation.
I commend the rapporteur for his systematic approach and recommendations.
I believe the scheme that he has prepared is excellent, but it is totally underfunded.
I also thank you for your cooperation.
In answer to the question about how will this go forward, I can tell you that there will be no problem, there will be a prolongation.
Coreper discussed the Commission proposal on 15 December, and it will go as an 'A' point – that is, one where there are no problems – to the Environment Council before Christmas.
Let me also say that, in the meantime, the Commission intends to present a proposal for a new legal instrument with a view to its entry into force in January 2007.
That means that this new proposal will be based on the provisions of the new constitutional Treaty for greater possibilities to develop European cooperation in the field of civil protection; and thus we will be working particularly in the field of prevention that you all mentioned, but also in the field of response.
The next two years will be a transitional period to prepare in the best possible way the venue for the new Treaty, which will include many of the items and elements mentioned here.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
