This is particularly true with regard to the shaping of the European single market, a context in which we require statistical data which is comparable and equivalent between the different Member States.
I would even go so far as to say that this is even truer, if that is possible, in view of the enlargement of the European Union, a process in which the availability and comparability of information, particularly statistical and economic information, must be treated as absolutely crucial.
I do not intend to dwell on the qualities of ESA 95 - the European System of Integrated Economic Accounts - nor on the progress which it represented in relation to the previous 1979 system, an issue which I spoke about in the House at the time of my report on the proposed Council Regulation amending the Regulation on the application of the Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure.
What should really be underlined is that, in my view, we must firmly support a Commission proposal which, essentially with regard to an issue as serious as the budgets of the Member States, is inclined to give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than criteria such as the amounts due in the field of taxes and social contributions.
This course of action by the Commission, which some people attack because in short they believe it does not once and for all end the practices of concealing deficit, in no way intends to distort the assessment of the amounts in the national accounts but, on the contrary, to arrive at the same figure in two different ways.
One, in my view the more correct way, or at least the more academic way, is the criterion of income, with the corresponding provision concerning collectability, set out in paragraph (a) of Article 3 proposed by the Commission, and the other, set out in paragraph (b) of Article 3, is the criterion of cash receipts adjusted to take account of the time difference between the activity and the cash tax receipt at the end of the financial year.
Nevertheless, we believe that, in order to encourage Member States to gather statistical data, even aggregated data, concerning taxes on products, Article 3 of the Commission proposal should deal with this issue by establishing a similar mechanism for recording and adjusting such taxation.
I would like to repeat that the proposal rightly stresses that we should give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than the taxes and social contributions due in the Member States, and allows these two methods of calculation, which make it possible for the systems used by the Member States to be adapted.
Finally, I would also like to stress that, consistent with our opinion that the Commission proposal is more an amendment than a clarification and that, moreover, it affects basic concepts, instead of using the procedures under Article 2(2) of Council Regulation 2236/96 of 25 June 1996, for the adoption of changes to the methodology intended to clarify and improve the content of ESA 95, use should instead be made of the introduction procedure set out in Annex A of that regulation.
On closer examination, it now appears that the information recorded on taxes and social contributions is not as precise as was hoped because it does not always correspond to the amounts actually collected or collectable for a particular assessment year.
The PPE-DE Group agrees with the Commission proposal in this regard.
The Member States also need time to adjust to new rules.
We have therefore tabled an amendment on behalf of the PPE-DE Group and would ask our colleagues in the House and the Commission as well to support this amendment.
I should have liked to hear the Commissioner confirm whether the Commission is indeed drawing up a proposal to amend Article 8 of the ESA 95 Regulation to the effect that all the Member States will, in the future, have an adequate legal basis to use ESA 95 for the calculation of the third source of own resources, that is to say, VAT.
Mr President, the Commission' s initiative on presenting this regulation intended to unify the principles for recording taxes and social contributions is very appropriate.
It is true that, in accounting terms, both the cash receipt criterion and the income criterion can be allowed, but it is also true that the former allows for less juggling of the figures intended to distort the true accounts situation of a country.
It is true that the use of those systems has allowed, for example, certain countries to fulfil the Maastricht criteria, but it is also true that their abuse can distort the picture of a country' s true accounts.
The rapporteur mentioned a debate which occurred in Spain which, in short, resulted from the government claiming ESP 750 000 million in 1997 as social security income, which was theoretically owed but which was clearly never going to be collected.
It is perhaps for this reason that the Spanish Members from the PPE Group have presented certain amendments and have tried to delay the approval of this report.
We therefore approve of the Commission' s proposal but we do not approve the PPE' s proposal, which is intended to delay the entry into force of this regulation, or the amendments of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which, since it considers that the regulation amounts to an amendment rather than a mere clarification, in reality delays its entry into force.
As any expert knows, the estimations in accordance with ESA 95 require breakdowns which affect no less than 60 accounting categories.
Secondly, this profound and complex change must be done in a gradual way.
At the end of the day this would lead to a fair change because a sudden change would prejudice those States which have adopted the criterion of income, in other words, those which have, to a greater extent, complied with the regulation which entered into force in 1999.
We are being asked to change a regulation which entered into force a few months ago.
The PPE-DE' s amendment asks for the change to be introduced gradually.
Mr President, I think we would all agree that, if we are to run the Community properly, we need a high-quality statistical base within the Community and the applicant countries.
So far as the transition period is concerned, many of us will have sympathy with the need for some form of transition because, clearly, if you amend the regulations in such a way that you move from a system which is being used over a long period of time to a completely new system some time will be required.
However, I hope that the countries of the Union will not use this as an excuse, if it is passed, but seek to implement the new system as rapidly as they can - in other words, two years should be regarded as an exception and as a maximum rather than as the normal ration for the job.
The Commission is very happy that our proposal has received broad support and is happy with the report adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which I will comment on shortly.
The rapporteur stresses in his report that the objective of the proposal is to arrive at the same figure, regardless of the statistical sources used, and in reality this is our objective.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has approved eight amendments and the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8 without any difficulty.
The Commission would prefer not to maintain Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6.
With regard to Amendment No 9, the issue has been studied by the directorate-general of ECOFIN and by Eurostat and, having analysed the problem in detail, I can tell you, Mr García-Margallo, that, in principle, exceptions, in statistical terms, must only be allowed where a Member State is not technically capable of providing data.
This has been the case, for example, with the exceptions allowed for certain Member States within the ESA 95 regulations.
In the case in question, there are no technical difficulties to justify that exception, and the regulation has been substantially amended throughout its negotiation to give it more flexibility, in such a way that, in our opinion, all the difficulties raised by the different Member States can be resolved within the margins of flexibility which the regulation allows.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Under constant attack since its adoption, this regulation eventually led to several WTO rulings against us, the latest in April 1999.
As we know, this system has already been attacked by the majority of operators and producers from all geographic areas.
The same applies to many ACP countries, traditional suppliers.
It is impossible for these producers to maintain fair competition with the great producers and operators in the international network.
The margin of manoeuvre is technically narrow, but the choice of a reform model is political.
As there are no objective reasons for choosing 'tariff only' , I propose to retain the first option in the Commission' s proposal, the 'transitional' option, and implement it without moving on to 'tariff only' , but with a review of the operation of this reformed COM at the end of a ten year period.
In any case, accompanying measures are essential to ensure the permanence and viability of Community and ACP production.
I hope Parliament will follow the line proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, but we also need the understanding of the Council and the Commission.
Ladies and gentlemen, as we now have a new report before us and a new team here in the Chamber, I must repeat what I said at the beginning.
Firstly, with regard to the international obligations of the European Union, not only towards the ACP countries, but also within the World Trade Organisation.
In fact, in the Commission' s current negotiations, it appears that the main suppliers would prefer this system.
On the other hand, this is the system which best defends the principle of multifunctionality of agriculture, protects the European Union producers, also protects the developing countries, with whom we have a very special relationship, is sensitive to the protection of fundamental social regulations and the protection of the environment and, lastly, it is the system which best obeys the principle of consumer protection.
For all these reasons, my committee voted in favour of Mr Dary' s draft report.
But while I share the desire to put an end to a trade war which is poisoning transatlantic relations, this cannot be done at any price, abandoning without compensation the principles of justice and solidarity which guide the action of the European Union.
I am sorry, too, that we have not fought for the retention of a specific quota for the ACP countries which alone guaranteed them access to the market.
But let us give them time.
Let us encourage organic farming and, in ten years, believe me, the price of African bananas will have fallen to the level of dollar bananas.
In this proposal, the Commission not only renounces the defence of Community interests and the interests of the ACP countries but has also, in my opinion, abandoned the minimum degree of neutrality required.
The World Trade Organisation condemned the system of licences in force, which must undoubtedly be modified.
It is in defence of our obligations and commitments to the ACP countries that the amendments have been presented on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
The banana controversy is a good example of how hard it is to reconcile the interests of the fifteen Member States, the Union, the ACP banana producing countries, European consumers and our trading partners.
I congratulate the Commission for striving to reach a compromise that has regard to the various interest groups.
Mr President, the WTO has challenged our Community regulation on bananas several times and each time we have had to redefine the content of this COM and suffer the burden of the fines imposed on us as reparations for damage caused.
However, in the light of these four concerns, Mr Dary' s proposal is entirely apt, at least that was the feeling of Parliament' s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in unanimously supporting it, a quite exceptional occurrence for such a sensitive subject.
For my part I am convinced that the approaching start of the next WTO cycle should mean we can handle this issue positively in a more global context and for that I am counting on the Commission' s determination.
As we all know, there are many competing claims - the claims of ACP banana producers, Community banana producers, EU businesses which have been hit hard by US sanctions, the EU's role and standing in the WTO and, of course, the rights and interests of European banana consumers.
The Commission's proposal is a compromise between those who demand an immediate move to a tariff only system and those who wish to ignore the WTO rulings and stick with the flawed regime as it is.
That is why the majority of the ELDR Group supports the Commission's proposal to continue a tariff-rate quota system for a transitional period before moving to a definitive tariff only system.
That can be done by rejecting this report and supporting the Commission's compromise proposal.
Mr President, the common organisation of markets in the banana sector has allowed this sector, which is fundamental to the sometimes fragile economies of the ACP countries and the outermost regions of the European Union, to function.
Less than seven years have passed since the entry into force of the COM on bananas, and the Commission is now proposing a profound modification of its operation.
The Commission proposes a quota of 353 000 tonnes and a possible increase in the event of a rise in demand.
Lastly, special attention should be given to the development of the situation of the Community and ACP producers, who are already in a vulnerable position and will be even more so in a context of intense and open competition.
The Commission must carry out a report in advance assessing the consequences of the application of any modification of the system in order to provide the due compensation for its negative effects on prices and incomes as a result of the increase in the global income in question.
But, in fact, almost 60% of the 4 million tonnes of bananas consumed annually in the European Union are supplied not by Community or ACP producers, but by Latin American third countries where the American companies run vast plantations under production conditions characterised by scant regard for social and environmental concerns.
In traditional ACP countries and Union countries, which already have only a minority share of the European market, bananas are grown in small production units, usually family concerns, and in areas where there is no real possibility of alternative occupation.
So they represent an essential element in the balance of the economic and social fabric of these fragile territories.
Unfortunately, that certainly seems to be the route the Commission has chosen, with a short and dangerous transitional system and an exclusively tariff - and uncertain - formula as from 2006, which would imperil both ACP and European production and put the Community banana market under the control of a few large operators, able to set the profit margins through the commercialisation of dollar bananas.
So the Commission' s proposal is in line with neither the interests of Community and ACP producers, nor the long-term interests of European consumers, because it actually encourages the emergence of a far from competitive market situation.
That is why it has been unanimously rejected not only by our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, but also by the ACP-EU Joint Assembly and the French Parliament.
So I hope our Parliament will follow the Committee on Agriculture, and the European Commission will feel obliged to make new proposals to us, more in accordance with European interests and our cooperation with the ACP countries.
The United States wants more.
But we are also getting bogged down in technical proposals.
Thus the Commission proposes, before surrendering totally to the United States, a six-year transition period when, in essence, there would be three quotas, including the ACP quota and the dollar quota.
We have to choose: either the Canaries, Madeira and the Antilles - or Chiquita.
We have to choose: either Africa and the Lomé Convention, or the WTO.
We have to choose: either Europe' s social policy and human rights, or the multinational slave-drivers who produce with social costs totalling 8% instead of the 42% social costs in the Canaries, Madeira or the Antilles.
This is about protection of financial interests, because when OLAF disputes a few centimes of Members' taxi expenses yet is not interested in the annual present of two billion dollars from Chiquita, there is a problem.
When the United States alters its policy, we will discuss the mere 191 million for bananas.
When the United States stops cheating for the benefit of Boeing, Kodak, Cargil and Ford, we will discuss bananas.
We must talk about Iraq, Echelon, Serbia; put everything on the table.
The lack of competitiveness of EU banana production cannot be allowed to justify a refusal to accept uniform and non-discriminatory access to the European market.
Mr President, Commissioner, it falls to me to summarise the problems of the COM in bananas in just a few minutes.
This is a tropical fruit marketed in the Northern hemisphere and its distribution is also a fundamental part of North-South cooperation.
The real question we face is whether or not the European Union can succeed in organising, within its own market, a juxtaposition of flows from the producer regions of Europe, the ACP countries and Latin America.
Such a development would be contrary to the actual purpose of regional policy and the common agricultural policy - the two pillars of the European Union - and we do not want that under any circumstances.
Mr President, the defenders of the interests of the multinationals in this Parliament have not studied the subject of bananas properly.
In fact, so far the World Trade Organisation has only declared two extremes incompatible with international commercial law.
The second refers to the incompatibility of the exemption in favour of ACP countries within the Community system.
In other respects, the Community system is wholly in accordance with community rules, international law and the rules of the World Trade Organisation.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Commission' s proposal on the reform of the banana sector is negative, unacceptable and disastrous for the agricultural sector in the outermost regions and the ACP countries affected by it, which, of course, supply 40% of the Community market.
The flat-rate system that the Commission intends to introduce would cause producers in the outermost regions of the European Union, such as Madeira and the ACP countries, to go bankrupt.
If our policies are to be consistent with our declarations of support for the ACP countries and for the development of the outermost regions of the European Union, we cannot allow agriculture in those regions and its future development - in which the production and export of bananas play a major part - to be squeezed by waves of dollar bananas from the large plantations that banana multinationals own in Latin America.
That is why we - and I am now speaking on behalf of a significant minority in the PPE Group, which could be a majority the next time - support the Commission' s position.
Following a transitional period, a tariff of EUR 275 per tonne is to be introduced for bananas from third countries, from which bananas from ACP countries would be exempt.
However, the Achilles' heel of the Commission' s proposals is the lack of sufficient protection for the interests of banana producers within the European Union, essentially in the peripheral regions and the overseas departments.
There is still a need for a political compromise here.
The structural measures envisaged in Title III of the Regulation on the common organisation of the market in bananas need to be considerably strengthened.
Because, ladies and gentlemen, adopting a 'tariff only' system after a transitional period of six years, as the Commission proposes, would truly condemn our producers to failure and despair.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us make no mistake, if Europe surrenders on the banana issue today, it will surrender on sugar or rum tomorrow, and the next day it will have to abandon its social model and its development policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the banana regime of the European Union has already been condemned four times by the World Trade Organisation.
After the United States, Ecuador has also now obtained permission to take retaliatory action for an amount of USD 200 million.
Commissioner, I too remember the European Union introducing a regulation in 1993 on the organisation of the market in bananas, so as to ensure protection of outlets and income for Community producers and to guarantee the exports of the ACP countries to the Community market.
In 1999, the WTO panel, orchestrated by the United States, condemned the Community' s import licences system.
The Commission has submitted to that verdict by amending the market conditions to end up with a 'tariff only' system in 2006.
The implementation of this new regulation, which actually goes beyond the WTO ruling, would call into question the distribution of Community and ACP products and would aggravate an already fragile social situation, especially in the French Overseas Territories where the selling price of bananas had already fallen below 3 francs in 1998 and was less than 2 francs in 1999.
I am glad the Committee on Agriculture has rejected not only the amendments championed by the intermediaries of the American multinationals, but also the Commission' s proposals.
I entirely approve of the Dary report which opposes the automatic move to a 'tariff only' system and which defends the principles which presided over the establishment of the common organisation of markets, especially Community preference.
By adopting the Dary report, we will be sending the Council and the Commission the clear signal that our Parliament is determined to defend the interests of Community and ACP producers, to make the WTO recognise that the preferential agreements constitute development aid instruments.
Furthermore, as we saw in Seattle, the new round of WTO negotiations should be a genuine development round.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, banana production has a special significance in certain less developed countries, signatories to the ACP agreements, island regions such as Crete, and, in particular, outermost regions such as Madeira, the Canary Islands, Martinique and Guadeloupe.
We are not talking about fully developed regions in the centre of Europe which have countless alternatives when faced with changes in market conditions, and where the common agricultural policy invests most of its resources.
For this reason it is not possible for us to accept radical changes in the Community' s trade policy in this field unless we take full account of its regional impact and unless we take the necessary measures in this field in terms of economic and social cohesion.
The Lisbon European Council instructed the Commission to present as quickly as possible practical measures aimed at implementing the Commission' s report on the application of Article 299(2) in relation to the outermost regions.
Chiquita, Dole and Del Monte, who produce in Latin American countries, have not seen their production levels go down since 1993.
Having said that, it is not that I do not think it is possible, as put forward in the Commission proposal, to adopt, as of 2006, a system which does not impose quota restrictions or tariffs on ACP countries or any other countries.
Postponing this until 2010 would not make much difference, although that would undoubtedly give us more time to find less damaging solutions.
I regret various aspects of this Dary report.
I have to say that this timescale of ten years is wholly unrealistic and unreasonable.
In Ecuador, 60% of banana producers are small producers with less than 20 hectares, and they are suffering from unjustifiable discrimination.
That is why contradictions exist within the Dary report, which, on the one hand, advocates a global approach and support for fair trade bananas throughout the world, but, at the same time, continues to create difficulties of this kind for small producers in Latin America.
Mr President, Commissioner, at this point in the debate I am not going to enter into a discussion of the Dary report, nor discuss its fundamental points, but I do wish to say that the official position of the PPE Group is in support of the entire Dary report.
Commissioner, your proposal does not accord with the objectives nor resolve the problems being suffered by the banana industry and politically it is not worthy of our producers.
Nor does the Commission' s proposal comply with our international commitments.
However, the most serious problem is that, immersed in difficult negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, we are showing publicly, in black and white, where our weak points lie.
Furthermore, I am sure that you will find a viable route in the direction indicated.
Therefore, Commissioner, act politically, find a solution and listen to this Parliament.
The first area is the deletion of references to a tariff only system and an automatic move to such a system after a certain transitional period.
The second important area is the issue of managing tariff quotas.
Our discussions have also covered other alternatives for managing quota C.
The third area, which relates to quotas, is the extension of the period for maintaining the quota system to at least 10 years.
The Commission has proposed the transitional period because it gives time for producers within the Community and in the ACP countries to prepare for the new system.
With regard to the tariff preference for ACP countries, the Commission believes that EUR 275 per tonne is sufficient to secure access to the Community market for these countries.
A higher preference would also lead to renewed attacks in the WTO.
If the higher preference limited Latin American countries' access under quota C, this could be interpreted as if we wanted in practice to introduce a special ACP quota.
I shall now turn to the special support measures for our own producers in the European Union.
There are already horizontal measures in place guaranteeing equal access for organic bananas from third countries and organic bananas from the Community.
In addition, the European Union can grant subsidies for the production of organic bananas under the agri-environmental measures envisaged in the development plan for rural areas.
In addition to the possibilities I have just mentioned, it is also possible to provide support for developing production of organic bananas and also of fair trade bananas in the ACP countries under the Regulation establishing a special framework of assistance for traditional ACP suppliers of bananas.
However, assuming that the compromise - and I would once again like to express my sincere thanks to all those involved in achieving it - remains unchanged in other respects, I would ask you to vote for Amendment No 1 tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, because it includes a sensible addition.
However, I must reject Amendments Nos 2 and 3, because in terms of content they would have too great an impact on the overall compromise.
The amendment is essentially about a vote on the explanatory statement in my report.
Last Monday we did indeed have a wide-ranging discussion in the Committee on Budgetary Control on the admissibility of this question, and on whether, as chair of the committee, I should make use of Rule 161.
Madam President, I tabled this amendment, along with 37 colleagues from the European People' s Party, because I was appalled at the way the media had exploited the explanatory statement which, as everyone should know but obviously does not, is the responsibility of the rapporteur and in no way commits the House.
Having said that, I think you are right, Madam President, to declare it admissible because the vote this amendment involves is not a vote for or against the explanatory statement, but is simply intended to highlight the distance between that explanatory statement and the resolution.
Therefore, bearing in mind that the rapporteur has not spoken on this fundamental issue, I understand that the amendment still makes sense and the Group of the Party of European Socialists accepts it.
After the vote on Amendment No 5 Madam President, although some people are pleased at the decision that has been taken, this creates a very dangerous precedent.
Whenever, in future, there is an explanatory statement which some in the House do not like we have established that every time we will be able to vote against if we wish to do so.
If either of these amendments is adopted, will you, as President of Parliament, assume full political responsibility for their content and take the consequences if the demands set out in them are not met by the deadlines.
Mr van Hulten, as President, I take responsibility for declaring these amendments admissible.
The problem facing me is whether they are admissible or not.
on Amendment No 4 Madam President, we have an amendment before us which allegedly sums up the substance of two observations by the Court of Auditors very concisely.
on Amendment No 1 from the Greens/ALE Group Madam President, Point 6, on which we have to vote in this amendment, stipulates a deadline of 15 May.
We have already agreed on this, and this was also unanimously agreed in committee, because we accepted that this was only possible if we took account of the situation on negotiations.
This is about calling on the administration to present an action plan by 15 May describing exactly how improvements can be made.
Our Group supports this compromise amendment with, however, the exception of one word: "plus" - "plus proportionnelle".
Presumably the English version is "more proportional".
We cannot accept that word.
However, under the Rules, it is not possible to ask for a split vote on a compromise amendment.
I note that if Amendments Nos 100 and 101 were both to be adopted, it would come to exactly the same text as this compromise amendment, except for the problematic word "more".
As I know that colleagues in other groups had exactly the same problem with this word, I would suggest to friends and colleagues that it might be appropriate not to accept the compromise amendment but to vote instead in favour of both Amendments Nos 100 and 101, which are compatible, and that would achieve precisely the result desired by many people.
Thank you, Mr Corbett.
Excuse me, Mr Brok, Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear.
I am only following the Rules, just as I should. (Parliament decided not to put the compromise amendment to the vote) on Amendment No 118 from the Greens/ALE Group Madam President, there seems to be a lack of correspondence between the different linguistic versions of Amendment No 118.
The French version simply refers to "les autorités compétentes", whereas the English version refers to "the competent devolved authorities" which, in English, has a more significant meaning.
We established our voting lists in favour of this amendment on the basis of the French version.
Madam President, the French text takes precedence.
on Amendment No 174 from the PPE Group Madam President, we wish to request a split vote, first on the term "four-fifths" and then on the rest.
Now, on the original text of paragraph 29, I believe I had a request for an oral amendment from one of our rapporteurs.
So I will give him the floor to present his oral amendment and then we will have a split vote and roll-call vote on paragraph 29.
Mr Dimitrakopoulos, if you would like to present your oral amendment, Parliament will decide.
Madam President, the oral amendment consists of adding the word 'continuing' to the second part.
In this case, we informed your services yesterday that we would not be signing that compromise amendment.
Thus, it should never have been tabled in our name.
before the final vote Madam President, I would like to make a political declaration on behalf of my Group in relation to an issue which I believe has left a nasty taste in the mouths of all the groups in this House: the vote on paragraph 3, on the composition and distribution of seats in the European Parliament.
My Group will vote in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report, but I propose that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its wisdom, be charged with the task of finding a solution to this issue, because it is enormously sensitive throughout this House. (Parliament adopted the resolution) President.
On the final vote on the resolution we were faced with three choices today: to vote in favour, to vote against or to abstain.
To vote in favour of the Stauner report is to vote for postponement of granting discharge which, all things considered, we believe should be granted now.
As we explained in the Budgetary Control Committee, our preference was to vote "yes" to reform but "no" to visiting on this Commission the sins of its predecessors.
In the Liberal Group we have been consistently in favour of many of the elements in the Stauner report such as access to documents - it is a duty of the current Commission to provide access to documents.
If we do not vote in favour of the report it is because we want to indicate a preference to do business on reform now rather than later because we believe, on the evidence to date, that this Commission is a reformist Commission.
Voting against the report would merely have the effect of sending the report back to the Budgetary Control Committee without a clear expression of what happens next and by what means.
The French Socialist delegation is glad a majority was achieved to pass Amendment No 5 highlighting the slippage between the resolution put to the vote and the explanatory statement.
By that vote, Members have reaffirmed that only the rapporteur is responsible for the explanatory statement.
The proposed report Mrs Stauner submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control caused consternation far beyond the members of the committee itself.
The resolution put to the vote in Parliament today presents a catalogue of reasonable demands and recommendations to the Commission.
They leave the Committee on Budgetary Control sufficient time to prepare a report which will rule effectively on the implementation of the 1998 budget by the Commission. - (IT) The delegation of the Democratic Left to the European Parliament, of which I am chair, voted against the Stauner report on the 1998 discharge because it does not agree with the basic line taken.
The report does not focus on the Commission' s actions during 1998, to which the discharge relates, pursuant to Article 205a and Article 206 of the Treaty and Article 89(5) of the Financial Regulation, but is lingering over alleged cases of fraud, most of which occurred in the early nineties during the terms of previous Commissions.
The Prodi Commission has undertaken a vast reform, which is necessary in order to modernise the European civil service and to reorganise its structures in preparation for the many challenges which it will have to face over the next few years.
Indeed, it is necessary to ensure not only that past cases of fraud cannot be repeated, but also, and above all, that the level of management errors identified by the Court of Auditors in its annual report is greatly reduced.
Kuhne Report (A5-0097/2000) - (NL) In view of the inadequate management with regard to the buildings and personnel policy contracted out, as mentioned in the Kuhne report and in the report by the Financial Controller, we are of the opinion that discharge to the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the 1998 budget must be postponed.
The European Parliament must operate the same high standards with regard to its own management as are required of the Commission.
We are convinced that discharge can only be granted to the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the 1998 budget, provided that specific measures are taken to buck this deplorable trend once and for all.
Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen Report (A5-0086/2000) Mr President, I would like to underline that no one in Parliament will agree with every single item and every single paragraph of this important report.
But we know that.
Mr President, I have voted against this report.
Mr President, we are opposed to the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report because it proposes an integrated, centralised, rigid model of Europe, which is the opposite of our Europe and which can only block enlargement.
We find three points in this report particularly harmful.
Thirdly, the totalitarian drift of so-called European democracy, with the introduction of mechanisms, in particular making the application of Article 7 of the EU Treaty more flexible so that a Member State can be suspended, mechanisms, then, which will give a handful of leaders authority to operate a thought police across the continent, even against peoples expressing themselves democratically, as in Austria.
One of the most controversial points that arose during the debate was the contradiction between the anticipated proliferation of Members of the European Parliament because of enlargement, and the ceiling of 700 Members the Treaty of Amsterdam has imposed on our Parliament.
That limit was chosen to make the European Parliament resemble a national one, but all it does today is set the countries against each other, as none of them will accept a reduction in its quota of Members, and that is understandable.
The Europe of Nations Group proposes putting an end to these conflicts by breaking through the ceiling of 700 Members.
It could work in variable geometry formations and its originality would have a powerful impact on the imagination.
Mr President, like many others in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I have voted against this report for many reasons, but above all for three reasons.
If a Union of 28 Member States is to be successful, it must obviously have a flexible structure.
Mr President, I express my disappointment at my Green colleagues and my own group, because I was left with no opportunity to vote on two key amendments on the common, foreign and security policy.
It was very important for us to have an opportunity to say whether nuclear weapons play a role of any kind in the future of the common, foreign and security policy.
I voted against the report itself, because I feel that more centralisation means less safety for smaller Member States, less democracy, less involvement of people at a local and national level.
A new constitution for Europe that overrides national constitutions, a legal personality for the European Union and, of course, more militarisation: this is not the kind of Europe I want.
Mr President, I voted for Amendment No 100 to the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report on the European Parliament' s proposals for the Intergovernmental Conference, which, I regret, was not adopted by the House.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution although I did not agree with the individual points.
I regret that, at the end of the day, only 238 Members voted for the text, and I would like to ask those responsible for the running of this House to check whether the procedure followed really made sense.
I would also ask you, Mr President, to raise this vote in the Bureau, and to consider whether we cannot arrange matters differently, so that we avoid a mammoth voting session like this, which has lasted two and a half hours.
Mr President, although I am broadly in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos report on the Intergovernmental Conference, I abstained on the final vote.
The rejection of Amendment No 57, which would have removed this ambiguity, therefore leads me to abstain on the text although, I repeat, I support its main thrust as regards the IGC.
And I am quite sure the IGC will not retain the current wording of paragraph 32.
I believe that we should go much further, and move more determinedly, towards federalisation and away from nation states, towards the regions and the peoples of Europe.
It was difficult for me to support the resolution because it mixes the worst in with the best.
On the other hand, I did not want to vote against a resolution which probably represents the best the European Parliament can do at the moment.
The obvious conclusion seems to me that Parliament itself still has a long way to go to meet the profound aspirations of the majority of European Union citizens.
To take just one example, Parliament was only able to maintain a compromise on the composition of the Commission with difficulty, but truth obliges me to state that the compromise incorporates two contradictory ideas.
Ainardi, Bakopoulos, Eriksson, Figueiredo, Frahm, Koulourianos, Meijer, Herman Schmid, Seppänen and Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL), in writing.
We oppose the development of the European Union towards a state with superior powers to those of the Member States in all aspects of policy, as the report in practice advocates.
We demand that the stability pact be reconsidered and Article 56 of the Treaty be rewritten in order to bring the ECB under democratic control.
We consider that in insisting on a broad agenda, the European Parliament is not facilitating what should be the main task of the IGC, namely that of resolving the outstanding institutional problems regarding the composition and voting rules of the Council, the Commission, the European Parliament, the Court of Justice and the other institutions, and so making enlargement possible.
The EU should build on a common political will to achieve the overriding objectives relating to peace, the environment and prosperity in Europe, focusing on the interests of its citizens.
The debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which adopted the draft report with a very small majority, plus the fact that more than 200 amendments have been tabled for consideration in plenary, show that this report cannot contribute to creating a common basis for the IGC.
As regards the composition of the European Parliament, we have voted for calculation of the number of Members from each Member State according to a sliding scale so that the European Parliament' s composition reflects the size of the individual States, populations as well as the fact that there are benefits to be had from making the European Parliament more representative by enabling the different political viewpoints in the individual countries to be represented there.
This can be achieved by laying down requirements for a certain number of votes in the Council which must, at the same time, represent a simple majority of the total population of the Union.
All Member States must demonstrate the political will to make cooperation work.
In parallel with the IGC, the Member States are discussing a common European security and defence policy.
The commitment of the Portuguese members of the Socialist Group to the European project is a constant point of reference in its work and in its founding principles.
We find ourselves today at one of those key moments at which the European Union needs to rethink and adapt its policies and its institutions so that it can respond better to the challenges of enlargement and of the effective and democratic functioning of its institutions.
Advocacy of a progressive political union, pursuing the federalism which was at its origins, strengthening European citizenship and the economic and social cohesion and cultural diversity of its peoples are essential and inseparable aspects of the options before us.
The institutional implications of enlargement cannot be allowed to damage the fundamental balance - which the Treaties successfully express - between the twofold legitimacy of the union of peoples and the union of states which underpins the European project and which has made a decisive contribution to shaping its institutions.
The deepening, at global level, of European integration with a view to political union must satisfactorily preserve this fundamental balance which has ensured the success of the European project, bringing together states with such divergent demographic and geographical characteristics.
And it is also out of respect for these principles and convictions that we have felt obliged to vote against the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report, which, in our view, attempts to respond to the challenges of enlargement by means of solutions which would lead to a significant imbalance in the twofold legitimacy of the union of peoples and the unity of states.
We do not believe that the proposal in the report describes with sufficient clarity and openness the adoption of a criterion putting all Member States on an equal footing, whether the Commission is made up of one Commissioner per Member State or of a college of 20 Commissioners.
The issue of electing 10% of the Members of the European Parliament via European lists is also insufficiently clear.
The European list is a good idea, especially if the only people included in it are individuals who represent a genuine point of reference in the spirit of Europe.
Until now all decisions in the European Union relating to appointments have been taken unanimously, and there has never been a lack of appointments or any kind of crisis.
We believe that the unanimity rule has the virtue of ensuring a greater balance and of avoiding possible conflicts between large and small countries within the European Union.
It can therefore be said that the IGC, which is charged with proceeding with the institutional reforms which will make enlargement possible, holds the future of the European Union in its hands, since it has to decide between the minimal reform laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the broad reform which will allow the Union to accept the countries which are preparing for accession and pursue its task in favour of respect for human rights, peace and social justice.
Therefore, given that we are at a crucial moment in the process of European integration, it was appropriate for Parliament to send a message indicating what it understood to be the key points of the reform.
In the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report which we have just approved and which I have voted in favour of, Parliament indicates that we have to make further progress and that, to this end, we have to give the European Union the necessary means to complete the shared project of peace and well-being initiated 50 years ago.
Furthermore, the issue of the European Parliament' s seat is covered by a Court of Justice ruling of 1 October 1997 and laid down in the protocol on the seat of the institutions annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
As a French Socialist Member, I am therefore very much opposed to any proposal that would call into question the Strasbourg seat of the European Parliament.
Madam President, that is why I have voted against this motion. - (SV) Enlargement of the European Union is one of the most important issues for the future of Europe.
The aim of the present Intergovernmental Conference is to prepare the EU for this enlargement.
The report on the Intergovernmental Conference is the European Parliament' s contribution to that conference.
We, the Swedish Members, Mr Pierre Schori, Mr Jan Andersson, Mr Göran Färm and Mrs Ewa Hedkvist Petersen, support the main features of the report, but we would highlight the following points on which, to some extent, we have different opinions, which is why we abstained from voting in the final ballot.
The role of the European Parliament is to represent the people in the Union.
We advocate a ceiling of 700 Members of the European Parliament.
It is important that the solution should be a permanent one and not need to be changed in connection with any future enlargement.
An alternative would be for the weighting of votes in the Council to be calculated on the basis of the root of the population in the individual countries.
Closer cooperation between at least a third of the Member States cannot apply in the case of defence cooperation.
EU cooperation is, in the first place, a civilian European project and ought to be distinguished from military cooperation.
We now know its general scope, and it is clear that much of the content of this resolution, regardless of its merit or lack of it, has nothing to do with it.
The stability plan for South-East Europe is a failure: the declarations of loyalty to NATO by the governments of Eastern Europe do not prevent the European Union treating them with contempt and imposing anti-social policies on them.
We must build a Europe capable of enlarging towards the East and the South, to all peoples who democratically express the wish to join.
The Intergovernmental Conference is not intended to increase the powers of the Union; the point of the operation is to improve the functioning of a Union enlarged from 15 to 26 or even 30 Member States.
Through these excesses a majority of this Parliament has done Europe a disservice. , in writing. (SV) The Intergovernmental Conference is an historic opportunity for Member States to transform the EU into a democratic, open and efficient organisation, which is why we regret that the governments of the Member States do not have the political will to carry out an in-depth reform of the Union.
On this basis, we think it is important for the present Intergovernmental Conference to establish the size of the Commission at one Commissioner per Member State.
We do not think it is appropriate to see this as a permanent solution to the problem which will arise when the EU is enlarged.
Therefore, we must increase the use of qualified majority voting in the Council in order to avoid paralysis in decision taking, we must limit the number of Commissioners so that the Union's executive remains efficient and we must limit the number of MEPs to 700 to enable Parliament to function effectively.
At the same time, if the European Parliament approves a report like this, it will appear to be indifferent to situations which are obviously urgent, such as the need to overcome or at least mitigate serious democratic deficits; the need to modify the monetarist principles - in particular the Stability Pact - which are the root cause of today' s social scourges such as unemployment and unstable employment; to change the Statute of the European Central Bank so as to ensure greater transparency and appropriate controls and limits on its powers; and to make the existing principle of economic and social cohesion a reality, which is a vital step in creating a Europe of the future based on solidarity.
The Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report covers a wide range of issues which could be considered in the framework of the IGC which is taking place over the remainder of 2000.
The debate which has begun between Member States is reflected in the points of view expressed within the European Parliament, as is the tension over the scope of the IGC.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes that it is imperative to conclude the IGC before the end of 2000 in order to leave the EU fully prepared for enlargement.
In order to achieve this, we believe that the scope of the IGC should be restricted to "tidying up" the outstanding points from Amsterdam, plus a small range of other issues.
We have concerns over the workings of a European Public Prosecutor's office whilst being concerned to protect the Union's interests and resources against fraud throughout Community territory.
Likewise, the legislative measures in criminal matters in respect of fraud damaging the interests of the Union will need to be carefully constructed.
The national parliaments and local authorities should play an important role by ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected and by monitoring governments' action in the Council. - (SV) When the European Parliament today stated its position on the Intergovernmental Conference, I advocated solutions which also provide for the interests of the small Member States.
Since I do not consider the report to be in earnest with regard to the demands for decision making in the Council, to the way in which judges are to be appointed and to the number of Members of Parliament, I voted against the report in the final vote (238 votes in favour, 147 votes against and 73 abstentions).
The sanctions on Iraq have become a weapon of mass destruction against the helpless people there.
Over 200 children die there every single day.
Mary Robinson, the High Commissioner for Human Rights, has been speaking out against sanctions for a long time.
She said you cannot expect her to condemn human rights abuses in other parts of the world and let the United Nations itself be responsible for what is happening in Iraq following the sanctions.
Within hours of his resignation, the head of the World Food Programme in Iraq since January 1999 also resigned in protest at the sanctions.
I would like to point out that 70 Congressmen sent a letter to Bill Clinton in the United States asking him to lift the embargo, asking him to de-link economic sanctions from the military sanctions that are currently in place in Iraq.
It is a blatant violation of international human rights laws.
The sanctions are targeting the most vulnerable in society and making them suffer yet, at the same time, the elite in that society and the people who are part of the Saddam Hussein regime do not suffer from the sanctions.
That is absolutely unacceptable.
No Member of this House can remain unmoved by the harrowing situation in which so many Iraqi people find themselves.
The facts have been presented by respected international bodies such as UNICEF.
The consistent refusal by the regime to fully implement United Nations resolutions has led to a situation where the sanctions remain firmly in place almost ten years after the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq.
We must make it very clear in this forum that United Nations resolutions are legally binding on all members of the United Nations.
It is within the power of the regime to have the sanctions imposed by the United Nations lifted.
Full implementation of Resolution 1284 obliges Iraq, among other things, to cooperate with the Red Cross in overseeing the repatriation of detainees.
It is better to tell the truth and admit that the interests of the United States take precedence over those of communities.
Today, we are going to vote on a motion, a very important motion for a resolution calling for an end to the sanctions, an end to the embargo.
Saddam Hussein is certainly responsible and guilty, but we are also incurring a great deal of responsibility and guilt in continuing with a policy which maintains the population of a country in extreme poverty, a population such as the Iraqi people, with a rich history and culture, a population made up of people, women, children, who want to live.
I hope that when the embargo imposed on Iraq is lifted, this will be the end of all embargoes everywhere throughout the world.
This is important for all of us.
The honour of Europe depends on our speaking out for these young Arabs, for this great people being consigned to the night.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament will shortly be voting on a joint resolution and that is certainly not just because we are determined to have a clear conscience and actually condemn the perpetuation of sanctions which have never achieved their goals, as everyone agrees.
It is also because we think there is a real possibility of preventing a new risk of military force being unleashed there, given the experience of our colleague, Mr Buttiglione, who has been to Iraq and has alerted us to the fact that there is currently a significant risk of renewed bombing.
But we can feel gratified that we are voting in Parliament today on a resolution on the situation in Iraq which has, for the first time - and I hope we will take advantage of this to change our style a bit - won the approval of almost all the political groups.
I would mention, too, that only two members of the Security Council voted for it, against the advice of the three other members who abstained.
It means that, for the first time, the international community is being asked to show consistency with its own principles, because the various UN committees agree that these resolutions have been virtually all applied by the Iraqi regime, except for some minor points of interpretation or detail.
The fact is the discrepancies between Iraq and the international community do not justify maintaining the embargo.
Mr President, our resolution is very consistent.
For my part, I would refer to the procedure which seems to me in this case to be important.
This is a debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance, which has been devalued insofar as we are not getting a declaration from the Council, as Parliament had requested, on including this point as a Council declaration.
I would like to say that, without presenting any valid argument, this attitude on the part of the Council seems to me to show a lack of respect towards Parliament, especially when Parliament offers the Council the opportunity to make any declaration on any subject, as laid down in Rule 37.
It is truly contradictory that this Parliament cannot obtain a Council declaration on an issue as sensitive as this.
Therefore, Mr President, I would like to say that my Group intends to ask the Committee on External Affairs, at its next meeting, to present, pursuant to Rule 42, an oral question to the Council so that the Council will reply.
If this initiative is not successful, my political group will present, pursuant to the same article, an oral question to the Council so that the Council really takes seriously the worries and concerns of this Parliament and really does what is laid down in the Treaties, that is to say, to inform and cooperate with Parliament in all those areas which affect and concern the citizens of the European Union.
Mr President, I am as concerned as anybody in this House about the suffering of the people of Iraq as the result of sanctions but also of the actions of their own government.
If we are to support this resolution then Iraq must most definitely honour its obligations under all the United Nations resolutions.
We, as a Parliament, must stand by our resolution of January this year, calling for the release of all Kuwaitis and other non-Iraqi nationals who are still imprisoned in Iraq.
I had the opportunity to visit Iraq last month.
It regrets Iraq' s decision not to accept United Nations Security Council Resolution 1284.
And we could have done even more if the Iraqi government had not imposed restrictions on the activities of non-governmental organisations, hindering the delivery of humanitarian aid in Iraq.
Given the situation we cannot pretend that humanitarian aid can do any more than alleviate some of the effects of this awful economic and human situation in the short term.
In this regard, we agree with the draft resolution.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
We are categorically opposed to any form of terrorism and we support the fight against terrorism in every country in the world.
However, for several months a war has been raging in Chechnya which none of these arguments can justify.
I spent over six years of my life in Russia and have very close ties with that country.
It is high time that this war ended and that a political solution to this conflict was found, no matter how difficult and complicated that might be.
We would therefore react vigorously to these atrocities, but we also see it as very important to cooperate with democratic forces in Russia and with the new government.
Mr President, what has happened in the war in Chechnya has shocked us all.
Mr President, the President of Chechnya has limited control over the troops in his country.
We have also heard that there is the possibility of a joint parliamentary delegation undertaking a fact-finding mission on an ad hoc basis under the best possible conditions with a view to looking around the territory of Chechnya wherever it sees fit to do so.
We shall vote against Article 1 because once again it involves support for this statement and we could substitute a better statement of our own.
The delegation will have to examine what can be done to preserve the defence of human rights in the region, but also examine what we can do in the future to help Chechnya become a democratic constitutional state.
We want to make use of this information at a later stage, that is after the delegation has returned, as the basis for a major debate in this House, involving the Council and the Commission, and leading to the adoption of a really well founded resolution.
Mr President, firstly I would like to say that, through political pragmatism and through loyalty to the work that we do with the other groups in this House, we will support a joint resolution which basically supports the decision of the Council of Europe and the sending of a joint delegation from the Duma and the European Parliament.
We must also say that we do not share this kind of silence on the part of the European Parliament which is spreading to all these issues like a low mist which obscures everything.
We have even noted that the Council of Europe itself is showing more courage than this Parliament.
Either we have human rights or we do not have human rights.
Secondly, we want to show our solidarity with our colleagues on the other side of the River Ill, with our colleagues in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, who have taken a courageous step and who we should not lag behind in fighting for human rights.
That is why we must say a resounding 'yes' to steps against these wrongdoings and why we believe that it is important for representatives of this Parliament to visit Chechnya as soon as possible, following the example of the Council of Europe and the UN Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Robinson.
We wish to help both peoples and both peoples have the right to advance towards freedom and towards taking their proper place in the international community.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy needs to be based not only on fundamental moral values and principles, but also on success in achieving its aims and objectives, and this should not be confused with opportunism.
But we should not fool ourselves into imagining that in this case we simultaneously want to achieve something important for peace in Europe and throughout the world as whole, that is to say a dialogue with Russia and ultimately a partnership with Russia.
It is the job of the Council Presidency and the Commission, whilst at the same time defending moral values and condemning this war, to endeavour to ensure that we support those forces which are all too poorly represented in Russia, but who nevertheless wish to pursue a European path, a path towards a European partnership, a partnership with the European Union.
During these discussions, we have reiterated our main demands: cease-fire and political dialogue, access for, and presence of, international and humanitarian organisations, and independent inquiries into any human rights violations.
All these demands are also in the European Parliament' s resolution and the recommendation from the Council of Europe' s Parliamentary Assembly.
As the European Parliament has emphasised, the Russian authorities have failed to respond satisfactorily to these requests.
For our part, we support the United Nations Human Rights Commissioner, Mary Robinson' s request to Russia to set up a broad independent committee of inquiry into any violations of human rights, based on recognised international criteria.
We think Russia should pursue implementation of the partnership agreement in terms of its elements - I do mean all its elements - and provide more concrete results than we have at this stage.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
Jewish prisoners in Iran Mr President, what is the purpose of this joint resolution?
And remember, this has been the case for over a year as they were arrested in March 1999.
Our amendment in paragraph 5 is based on this very consideration.
The trial is taking place behind closed doors.
These people have been in prison for months under conditions we know virtually nothing about.
There is no guarantee of the right to a defence.
Three have been freed on bail.
It is also clear that the outcome of this trial partly depends on how the Iranian political situation evolves.
Justice has little place in that kind of battle, and human rights even less.
That is why we must demand the release of the prisoners: the thirteen Iranian Jews, but also the other eight Moslem prisoners and the students we know absolutely nothing about.
Finally, we must make it absolutely clear that the development of our relations with Iran will be subject to respect for human rights in that country.
The youngest is only sixteen years old.
Our feelings are as strong as our concern.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wholeheartedly supports the joint resolution that will be put to the vote today.
Today is a special day, 13 April 2000, the date of the so-called 'trial' .
In 1979, 1993, 1998 and 1999, resolutions were sent from the European Parliament to Iran, but what happened to them?
The Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs, David Levy, sent a letter to various ministers, including the Belgian Minister, to point out that these people are in no way guilty of spying.
That seems to me an unacceptable position for any country that claims to respect human rights.
These 13 who were arrested were arrested in secret; nobody knew of their whereabouts for two or three months.
Therefore, we can only interpret this trial as a deliberate attack on the Jewish community in Iran.
Such a country will never achieve the unity which it desires.
My advice to Turkey must be: choose the future and free Akin Birdal and his colleagues.
The EU is a Union founded upon values, respect for human rights, democracy and the principles of the constitutional state.
Unfortunately, Turkey still has a long way to go.
Mr President, during the debate the day before yesterday with the Council and the Commission, I mentioned the savage reaction of certain Turkish leaders to the fear that the European Union might try to interfere in internal Turkish affairs on the Kurdish question, at the very moment when a new path to membership is opening up for Turkey.
I can only repeat here as firmly as possible what I said in Ankara on my last visit there.
The European Parliament has no intention whatsoever of allowing the micro-nationalist miasma which has just drenched the Balkans in blood to develop in Turkey.
These were his words to us then: "For five months we have had a new Turkey.
Human rights are unambiguous, human rights are the same everywhere and Turkey must also be aware of that, otherwise it will never become a Member of the European Union.
The European Union has accepted Turkey' s candidacy and now the Turkish Government must respect our agreements and conventions.
Tibet Mr President, from all accounts, the human rights situation in China has deteriorated considerably.
The European Union cannot continue to turn a blind eye.
The United States presented a resolution on the violation of human rights in China at the fifty-sixth session of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
We are extremely concerned by the fact that the Council of the Union has also not yet announced its intention to support this resolution, and this may not be coincidental, since the EU-China dialogue on human rights is at a complete standstill.
Tibet' s culture and identity are being systematically obliterated.
These continual violations of the most fundamental human rights must now become an issue.
Commissioner Lamy, Europe needs to stick its head above the parapet.
Point one: Tibet must become a peace zone.
Point five: genuine negotiations must take place on Tibet' s future autonomous status.
Commissioner, all our economic agreements with third countries need to be based on the same premise: respect for human rights.
Eight years ago I was rapporteur on Tibet.
For this reason we are calling on the Chinese Government as a matter of the greatest urgency to seek a political solution for Tibet through discussions with Tibet' s political and religious leaders, on the basis of the proposal made by His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama.
In my opinion, the reason for this is that when we talk of human rights, we always focus on individual rights and too often disregard the rights of peoples.
From this point of view, I feel we can congratulate ourselves.
Mr President, you could say that there is something of a feeling of helplessness in standing here yet again and talking about the death penalty in the USA, since it is certainly not the first time we have discussed it, not even the first time during my short period in Parliament.
You may well feel that it is strange to sit in a near half-empty chamber, apart from the visitors, and discuss such an important subject, but I think it is a subject which we must continue to take up, and I would ask the Member States to also respond to it here, to respond swiftly and in no uncertain terms to this so-called friendly state which repeatedly violates the most basic human rights.
For that reason even the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights asked for time to re-examine the case and to be able to issue an opinion, and it also asked that no date be set for an execution.
Mr President, we should be clear as to why this resolution today is so important.
Firstly, we all know that there is a wave of judicial executions across the USA - over 600 since 1977 - but this would be the first federal execution since 1963.
Secondly, it is important because this is the only case since executions resumed in 1977 in which the evidence of unsolved, unadjudicated crime in a foreign country has been used to secure the death sentence.
Fourthly, Governor Ryan of Illinois, as we have heard already, has imposed a moratorium on the death sentence in his state because of its appalling record of wrongful convictions.
In this case it is particularly important because it is a federal execution and will be the first since 1963.
That is why we urge President Clinton to grant clemency in this case and a moratorium on federal executions.
Mr President, I join with previous speakers in demanding the immediate and unconditional abolition of the death penalty in the United States, and everywhere else in the world.
The death penalty is a political arm used by the American Government apparatus to settle accounts with militants like Mumia Abu Jamal.
A government which makes legal assassination one of the pillars of its justice system is infinitely more criminal than those it claims it is protecting society from.
The death penalty expresses all the barbarity of a society organised in a way that also condemns so many children and adolescents, even in the richest country in the world, to die from drug use or insecurity, actually from material and moral poverty, simply because they had the misfortune to be born in a poor area.
On a planetary scale, that barbarity condemns millions of human beings to die of hunger or disease when they could easily be cured - but they are not cured because they do not get the medicine they need.
Mr President, my Group firmly supports this resolution.
The American election campaign could provide a unique opportunity to send a strong message about this.
Zimbabwe Mr President, this short debate takes place against a background of increasing tension in Zimbabwe.
All of us who speak should remember that every word of our speeches and the resolution will be eagerly read in Zimbabwe within the next 48 hours by all sides.
We must, therefore, all encourage Zimbabwe to move towards elections in May.
The old parliament was dissolved on 11 April and President Mugabe pledged at the EU-Africa Summit in Cairo that the elections would go ahead.
This could take up to three months.
African countries must work together to consolidate their future.
However, the old Lomé Convention made democracy, human rights and the rule of law a requirement for development aid.
It is disappointing that Zimbabwe feels the need to be involved in the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo at a time when precious resources could be spent on domestic requirements, such as education and health.
We have fortunately been able to witness a democratic regime that seems to function well coming to power in South Africa.
Zimbabwe does, of course, still have considerable problems, but the European countries and the Union will continue to assume their responsibilities as partners of Zimbabwe in jointly tackling the problems of poverty, ill health and under-development.
In my view, Zimbabwe deserves our confidence.
The population has chosen the path of development.
I support what other speakers have said about the SADAC countries who will no doubt be looking upon this situation with great concern and who are undoubtedly working behind the scenes to maintain a democratic climate.
Let us express our complete confidence in the Zimbabwean people and wish them successful elections for 1 June.
Everything points to the country sitting on a volcano that could erupt at any minute.
In the run up to the elections, Mugabe will not hesitate to use violence against his political opponents.
Some people even fear that he is inciting the chaos in order to be able to proclaim a state of emergency and postpone the elections.
These are subjects which should be at the forefront of political action by the European Union.
We cannot hide the seriousness of what has been going on in Zimbabwe for many weeks now.
The concern expressed in Parliament' s motions for resolutions on human rights in Iran is entirely shared by the Commission.
As you mentioned during the debate, the Helsinki European Council confirmed Turkey' s status as a candidate country on the basis of the same criteria that apply to the other candidate countries.
So it is important for Turkey to engage resolutely in the democratisation process and adopt the necessary reforms in terms of human rights.
In the context of the regular report it has been producing since 1998 for Turkey, like the other candidate countries, the Commission is following the human rights situation very closely.
This document, which establishes the list of priorities to be met by Turkey in preparation for membership, should be adopted by the Commission next November.
Like you we are worried about the cultural, linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of Tibet, which the Chinese authorities clearly do not respect.
We regard the renewal of this dialogue as the only realistic method of achieving a peaceful and durable solution to the Tibetan question.
The situation in Tibet was also one of the main items on the agenda at the last summit between the Union and China, held in Beijing last December.
On the death penalty in the United States, like many of you, the Commission is concerned about the growing number of people condemned to death and executed in the United States since the reintroduction of the death penalty in 1976.
We are engaged in permanent dialogue, not only with the United States Government, but also with the other American authorities concerned, in particular the governors of the states where the death penalty has not been abolished.
And we are hoping - we have started - to encourage all the federal states in the United States which apply capital punishment to think about that risk and introduce a moratorium like the one in Illinois with a view to achieving abolition of the death penalty throughout the country.
With regard to the particular case of Juan Miguel Garza, the Commission is currently working to clarify the facts through our delegation to Washington.
As regards the question concerning the possible suspension of our cooperation, although there could be grounds for suspending financial cooperation with Zimbabwe under the Lomé Convention, we take the view, for the moment, as indeed does Mrs Maes, that such a measure would run counter to our goal prior to the elections.
Since the government' s macroeconomic results are mediocre to say the least, the Commission, the IMF, and the World Bank have already frozen their support for structural adjustment, and the backers participating in the agrarian reform have suspended their institutional cooperation plans.
On Zimbabwe' s intervention in the Democratic Republic of Congo, we support the Lusaka peace agreement which calls for a status quo of the forces present and a ceasefire in line with the terms of that agreement.
Like the European Parliament, we utterly deplore them.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The Community is the largest donor to many of these countries.
A prominent African leader made a very pertinent comment.
One of the main problems with providing education in many countries is the catastrophic effect AIDS is having on the lives not just of children, many of whom are orphans because they have lost one or both parents.
In several of the African countries which I recently visited, I was informed that in order to have one teacher, the colleges must train three, because by the age of 30 so many teachers are already dead from AIDS.
We are not talking about more money for the development budget but about redistribution within that budget.
Finally, we cannot develop others, they must develop themselves, but this is a wonderful opportunity to help them and Parliament, together with the Commission, will soon be able to translate this resolution very specifically into real action in the 2001 budget.
As the author of the general report on poverty approved in the Bahamas by the EU-ACP Joint Assembly a few months ago, I would like to say that the fight against poverty must become one of our objectives and, in many cases, our main objective.
In this context, education, together with health, is the tool with which we can implement an ambitious programme to win the fight against poverty in the world.
It is our duty to take an interest in these children, particularly the girls, because in some countries they are still regarded as domestic slaves.
So in parallel with the implementation of processes to promote literacy and education in general, we must also engage in some collective thinking about the living conditions of children in the various countries, especially in urban areas, and assist in projects to look after street children in third world countries, and also in our own countries, developing pilot schemes inspired, for example, by the family pre-school proposed by ATD Quart-monde.
It involves reaching out to families and helping children within the family, as well as cooperation and funding to help families in difficulty, especially single-parent families and vulnerable children.
In fact it is our duty to launch an extensive review of the education of children on our planet if we want a better future for all.
In line with these international commitments, Community investments in education have primarily targeted basic education and primary education, especially in the context of cooperation with the ACP countries.
Thus, a majority of the education programmes financed under the 8th EDF have been devoted to primary education.
The funds allocated to this heading represent 80% of the total amount devoted to education.
The Commission has incorporated the recommendations of the Jomtien Conference on Basic Education into its policy and, in the framework of indicative national programmes, 35 ACP countries out of 71 have made education a priority.
We agree that the effectiveness of our approach on education requires very close coordination between the Community and the Member States as well as with the other backers.
My last point is the question put by Mr Van den Berg on the doubling of the basic education budget in 2001.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
We know Annette Lü and the new President of Taiwan Chen Shui-bian.
Yes, indeed, after all it is clear that the Chinese people are quite capable of building a democratic system with respect for human rights.
Beijing' s behaviour confirms our opinion that the future of Taiwan lies in the hands of the Taiwanese themselves.
It is extremely important for this Parliament to forge closer links with the elected representatives in Taiwan.
Democratisation in that part of the world is also important for Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, as European Parliament observers, my colleague Georg Jarzembowski and I were able to follow the presidential elections in Taiwan on 18 March on the spot, 'live' as it were.
After a very long period of supremacy by the party in government up to that point - a period lasting over 50 years - the political scene has been revitalised.
The opposition candidate was elected the new President and, for the first time in Taiwan' s history, a woman was elected Vice-President.
The region needs security and stability.
The only way to achieve reconciliation and lasting peace is through positive cooperation and a constructive dialogue between mainland China and Taiwan.
Our resolution is intended to further democracy in Taiwan, but the People' s Republic of China is taking it as an affront.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I would like to highlight this Group' s contributions to the joint motion for a resolution, both in terms of promoting dialogue with the People' s Republic of China and Taiwan, as well as in the firm position which has to be maintained on this issue.
We believe that there is an objective need for Taiwan to have a greater presence in the international institutions; this Parliament can promote that.
We therefore support the existence of relations between this Parliament and the Taiwanese Parliament by means of the delegation from our institution and also the need to open a European Union information office in Taiwan.
Having said this, we also want this dialogue to have an objective basis, as have the declarations of the new President, Chen Shui-bian, to which, however, the People' s Republic of China has replied with a renewed display of nervousness, arrogance and a disrespect for democracy.
We must reject these threats since they are absolutely unacceptable, but also because they are an objective threat to the dialogue which is so necessary to the resolution of this problem.
The newly elected President reflects Taiwan' s democratic maturity.
This makes the behaviour of the People' s Republic of China all the more worrying for us, as before, during and after the democratic elections in Taiwan the Republic did not cease to make in some cases totally unacceptable threats towards its little brother.
As the Union has stated through its Presidency, most recently in July last year, in principle we are in favour of one China, but we also want the tension which breaks out from time to time between Taiwan and the People' s Republic of China to be resolved peaceably within a constructive dialogue.
We are encouraging intensification of economic relations with Taiwan and we think that should happen if, as we expect, Taiwan joins the World Trade Organisation.
We are hoping to do that, but we have not set any timetable because we have other priorities in Asia and worldwide, and you know how limited our resources are in this field, so we are forced to make choices.
The debate is closed.
Relating to the joint resolution on Iraq Mr President, there is a drafting error in Paragraph 2 of this resolution.
Mr Markov, you cannot make this request on your own.
If this request is made by 32 Members, I can check on the quorum.
Let us proceed to the vote.
I therefore request that in accordance with Rule 69(2) the vote on the legislative resolution should be postponed.
Mr President, now the vote is over, I would like to come back to the issue of a quorum.
For example, today there were 226 in the first vote after the issue of the quorum was raised.
Mr President, I voted for the definition of the "Youth" Community action programme, as agreed in the Conciliation Committee, mainly because it will finance and implement the European voluntary service programme, which has a large number of young people involved in community actions, including the provision of assistance for the elderly.
The importance of the family in promoting or hampering social integration among youth is clearly recognised within society today, as well as through various studies.
The previous youth programmes, Youth for Europe and the European Voluntary Service, will be grouped together in a general medium-term programme which will run from 2000 until 2006, as the European Parliament has demanded.
Every participant will also have full access to health services and social security, therefore allowing as many of our young people as possible to become involved.
These programmes will certainly benefit our young people and give them invaluable opportunities to learn about themselves, about others and about Europe.
Not only is this crucial for their personal development, but in a fiercely competitive world it will vastly improve their chances on the job market.
Increasing our young people's skills has always been one of our priorities and we must continue to support this aim.
That is especially true in Normandy, the region I represent, where too often youth is associated with deviance and delinquency, forgetting the vast majority of young people who work, dream, love and live, the bearers of all our hopes.
The European 'Youth' initiative is a first step in that direction, and bears witness to a growing awareness of young people in the EU institutions.
But it is essential to maintain this effort over time if it is to bear the desired fruit, in the interests of young people and therefore of Europe.
So I am convinced that other initiatives, especially aid to youth associations, should be massively encouraged and financially supported by the European Union.
We believe that it is a magnificent initiative on a European level to dedicate a special year to languages in Europe, to knowledge of them and to the recognition throughout the whole of the European Union of the importance of languages as a reservoir of cultural and historical wealth and an expression of the very identity of the societies which make up the Union.
We have supported this report but there are two aspects which we are not happy with.
This amendment has not been taken up, and we regret the line followed by the European Commission, with the participation of the Member States, because it leaves aside, at risk of marginalising it, a form of participation which is particularly important in this field.
I would like to remind you that this Parliament recognised Catalan as a European language and gave it a specific personality.
Mr President, I voted for the establishment of the European Year of Languages 2001.
It is of paramount importance for the European Union that the citizens of the 15 States learn to speak the languages of their fellow citizens of the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to give an explanation of my negative vote on the report on the European Year of Languages.
Secondly, the target year for this decision is 2001; European citizens could become proficient in other languages as is shown by the fact that all people who speak minority languages, without exception, have in common an excellent training in this field.
In a European Union of fifteen Member States, committed to enlargement, with eleven official languages and a multitude of regional languages, it is actually very important to make the citizens of the Union aware of the advantages of understanding and speaking other languages and of the many opportunities that exist for learning to do so.
Some European countries, especially the Scandinavian countries, already have very advanced policies in this field and the resulting advantages are evident.
This practice needs to be disseminated to the other Member States.
In the frame of this European Year, most of the amendments aim to establish closer cooperation with the Member States at all levels of policy, not only at national level but also at regional and even local policy level.
The second aim of my amendments was by means of the activities set up in the context of this European Year to pay special attention to socially vulnerable groups, migrants and semi-skilled and unskilled workers.
Haute-Normandie has one of the youngest populations in France, but also one of the highest levels of youth unemployment.
Making 2001 European Year of Languages will make Europeans aware of the linguistic diversity of the European Union.
In this respect, IBIS (Institut Bilingue Interuniversitaire de la Seine), which first saw the light of day in Haute-Normandie, is most exemplary.
Dary report (A5-0093/2000) Maes (Verts/ALE). (NL) Mr President, we not only voted with enthusiasm for this report, but also for the amendments that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development tabled.
Many of these countries are still battling with excessively high costs and I believe that a long transitional period, which I would insist on, is very important for these countries.
The vote on the Dary report has demonstrated once again that the European Parliament does not respect the internationally agreed trading rules.
It is unacceptable that in the Dary report again a transitional period of ten years is proposed, without putting a definitive ruling first.
This war, which is presented as a conflict between producer countries, Latin American and dollar area countries against Lomé Convention countries and European overseas dependent territories, is actually a war between capitalist groups.
Our position is this: while we do not want to give the mighty dollar banana sharks any awards, neither do we have any intention of providing backing through our votes to the smaller sharks protected by the European Union.
If a guarantee fund is created, it must underwrite the wages of these workers and the incomes of small producers, and not allow banana magnates to increase their wealth just to invest it in other, more profitable, sectors. - (FR) This report gives us the opportunity to welcome the European Parliament' s becoming aware of the need to defend the banana producers of, on the one hand, the ACP countries (to whom we have made commitments in the course of renewing the Lomé Convention) and, on the other hand, the outermost countries of the Community.
After years of difficulty due to the economic crisis in industrialised countries and the decline in the economies of Eastern Europe, the Commission' s solution would be likely to cause the untimely disappearance of these producing countries whose economies would not, for want of time, be able to restructure and diversify production.
It is clear today that, without actively seeking confrontation, the EU must champion its own point of view, a position which is all the more tenable as present and future European consumers represent a major proportion of the banana market.
We are therefore satisfied with Mr Dary' s report, even if we feel it does not go far enough, particularly in terms of the ACP tariff system, the transition period extended beyond ten years, and the definition of a new system for the allocation of import licences, or additional European aid. - (SV) The EU' s system for importing bananas - which the WTO panel declared to be discriminatory on 7 April 1999 - must be reformed.
Lagendijk report (A5-0069/2000) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, it was with great pleasure that I voted for this measure on the communication from the Commission on the stabilisation and association process for countries of South-Eastern Europe.
But throughout the century which has just ended, that region of Europe has known nothing but suffering because of that claim, whether made by rival European powers or by a Western Europe which likes to think it is united.
The economic and political rivalries between European powers have led to two world wars: the first started in that region and the second was particularly destructive there.
As the entire current situation illustrates, that war has further aggravated the situation in the region, both in material terms and in terms of relations between communities.
People are always saying that South-Eastern Europe is the European Union' s crisis-riven back yard.
The political context in this region is extremely sensitive and came to a climax in the Kosovo conflict.
That conflict demonstrated the potential political effects of instability on the neighbouring States, threatening to destabilise the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), Albania and Montenegro.
The European Union was traumatised by its powerlessness in the face of the process of violent disintegration at work in the Balkans.
The outcome of the Cologne Council was the establishment of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe on 10 June 1999, a pact involving not only the Member States of the European Union and, of course, the countries of the region, but also the United States and Russia.
The pact is part of the global stabilisation approach the European Union has been developing since 1996.
The stabilisation and association agreements to be signed by Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania are the keystone of that approach.
These agreements constitute an entirely new contractual framework for the countries of the region; they draw great inspiration from the institutional arrangements and conditions attached to the European agreements linking the European Union with the CEECs.
These agreements are individually tailored to take account of the specific situation in each country.
Above all, they give the countries of this crisis-riven region an important political signal and a definite incentive.
These agreements also encourage stronger regional cooperation, which seems to me indispensable to the creation of an axis of stability in the region.
García-Margallo y Marfíl report (A5-0059/2000) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I also voted for the measure on the Commission communication on implementing the framework for financial markets: Action Plan, because it is clearly important for the European Parliament, the Commission, the Union and the Council to make progress in terms of competition, using networks and electronic money, which are the latest forms of economic activity.
However, I have not been able to vote for it because it still contains inconsistencies after the plenary vote.
In this context, comparison with the commission in place in the United States, the SEC, is particularly inappropriate, because the SEC is the corollary of a financial system resulting largely from a segmentation of the profession between commercial banks and investment banks, and in Europe we have chosen the universal bank model, which has strengthened the role of the banks in the European financial system.
On prudential supervision, I made a direct appeal to the Commission and the Council yesterday not to cling to the crazy idea of entrusting supervision of all the credit establishments in the fifteen Member States to the European Central Bank.
I have not voted for paragraph 26 which is mostly incomprehensible in French anyway.
Kuckelhorn report (A5-0053/2000) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, considering that we are discussing supplementary pensions, the representative of the Pensioners' Party could not let the occasion pass without explaining why he voted for this measure.
The committee expressed an opinion on the outcome of the consultation on the Green Paper on supplementary pensions in the single market, just as it did on the Green Paper itself.
The targeted directive we are seeking for the second pillar of supplementary pensions should, in particular, define the context for eliminating obstacles to free choice of pension fund, free movement of persons, free provision of services and double taxation.
As regards the controversial question of whether supplementary pension systems should cover biometric risks, I want to point out that, from the fiscal point of view, pension funds which do not cover these risks cannot be discriminated against as compared with those which do cover them, it being understood that the need to cover these risks depends on the extent of the first pillar in the various countries.
I regret this all the more as almost all the relevant conclusions from the Committee on Women' s Rights and my recommendations are included in the motion for a resolution, in particular those considering that as regards supplementary pensions too, the preservation of acquired rights is essential when a spouse interrupts or abandons his or her work in order to devote himself or herself to his or her family or look after close relatives who are in need of assistance; for the purpose of calculating pensions, certain periods devoted to the upbringing of children or care of family members ought to be taken into account; it is desirable to provide for the possibility of continued voluntary or optional insurance to preserve and improve pension rights and guarantee a right to payment of the capital under certain conditions.
And let us not forget assisting spouses, those millions of invisible workers, the large majority women, on whose behalf this Parliament has demanded an upgrading of the half-hearted 1986 directive to give assisting spouses proper status and compulsory membership of social security schemes, especially pension schemes.
On 28 March President Prodi and seven of his colleagues met with members of the Committee on Women' s Rights, the European Women' s Lobby and the Equal Opportunities Consultative Committee.
The problem for these companies is not, of course, that they are 'hampered in exploiting the opportunities afforded by the internal market' ; their problem is precisely the measures used to implement the internal market, the principles which constitute the EU's competition legislation and the reduction in demand in the middle and lower classes as the result of anti-grass roots austerity policies.
And, of course, the solution does not lie in venture capital and the financial markets, which increase the risks for most small businesses, due to their limited resources, but in a different economic development policy which supports productive investment, increases demand and makes it easier for small businesses to trade.
It is not by chance that neither the individual Commission proposals nor the European Council guidelines make any reference to the need to limit these phenomena, control speculative movements of capital and impose a tax and other measures on capital.
The report calls for greater liberalisation of sectors such as the pharmaceutical market and a reduction in the tax burden on employment, thereby proving that the measures being taken are paving the way for greater liberalisation of and less accountable capital transactions and profits with exceptionally dangerous consequences for the entire social protection system.
This is another illustration of the 'soviet-style' procedures of the Community institutions which are now trying to invent the new consumer and the new businessman, after the new citizen of the Ludford report.
COM in milk The next item is the report (A5-0081/2000) by Mr Pesälä, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1255/1999 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products (COM(1999) 631 - C5-0339/1999 - 1999/0254(CNS)).
Mr President, Commissioner, this is indeed a matter of an amendment to a Regulation by means of which competence would be transferred from the Council to the Commission.
It would be logical if this power were extended to cover milk products.
When we consider that funds set aside for aiding exports will dwindle in a couple of years from EUR 587 million to EUR 415 million, as a result of WTO agreements, it would be a good thing if the Commission had the power to examine the list of goods.
There has been some discussion that the transfer of power from the Council to the Commission might not be such a good thing.
Planned total expenditure for export refunds for goods not covered by Annex I to the Treaty have been reduced from EUR 610 million in budget year 1999 to EUR 551 million in budget year 2000.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
COM in milk The next item is the report (A5-0074/2000) by Mr Maat, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1255/1999 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products (COM (1999) 608 - C5-0047/2000 - 1999/0246(CNS)).
In that regard I must say that I was very fortunate as a new Member of Parliament that, in dealing with the budget for 2001, Parliament in any case adopted my proposal to increase the school milk budget from EUR 53 to 83 million.
The proposal now before us in the report that was unanimously accepted in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - I would stress 'unanimously' - and it was particularly gratifying that all parties in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development support the report - boils down to the fact that more money is needed, EUR 96 million in fact.
For these reasons, and to see whether this regulation could be brought more up to date, I am pleased that the report has also been accepted in this sense in the Committee and I hope it will also be in Parliament.
There is an expansion in the number of products that can be used in the school milk regulation.
Many specific proposals have been made and that means that in this way we can adapt the school milk regulation in a better way and integrate it better into the current dietary pattern.
If this report is accepted by this House, every year about EUR 12 will be spent per child on subsidies for school milk and that is peanuts in my view.
I should also like to thank the Commission for its willingness to provide the necessary information and also for preparing the report.
It would therefore be an appropriate moment if Parliament were to approve this report and the school milk regulation.
Mr President, at the request of Mr Cunha I am presenting our statement on this debate on the school milk scheme.
For more than 20 years, the European Union has been financing the free distribution of milk in primary and secondary schools.
In recent years this action has amounted to an average annual expenditure of some EUR 90 million for more than 300 million litres of milk, benefiting around 10 million children and young people, or nearly 20% of eligible schoolchildren.
The first is its social impact, as it ensures a minimum balanced diet for many children and young people who otherwise would not have access to one.
The second reason is that, as there is a structural surplus in the market for milk products, this measure also represents an incentive to dispose of milk in a far more useful and constructive way than by distributing it, denaturing it or exporting it to third countries at even greater cost.
It is a pity that the European Union does not have more actions of this kind for other products, instead of dumping them on international markets by means of subsidies which are sometimes twice their price on those markets, which makes it difficult to understand the alleged objective of budgetary savings.
The United States, which is famous for having a more individualist outlook with less solidarity, spends nearly 9 000 million dollars a year on distributing foods to schoolchildren, i.e. 100 times more than the European Union.
And the European Union is now proposing to move away from 100% financing and is proposing 50% cofinancing, which will especially penalise less wealthy countries like Portugal.
In the evaluation report on the school milk regulation that the Commission itself quotes, it says that if you only take account of the explicitly stated objectives of the regulation particularly to maintain and increase the consumption of dairy products and promote the sale of surpluses, the positive effects are marginal.
Nevertheless, on 10 December, the Commission decided not to withdraw the measures but to halve the subsidy.
I believe that the Commission must confine itself to the core tasks and leave other matters to the Member States.
Amendments Nos 9 and 10 specifically move the proposal towards a direction where less fatty products would be treated along the same lines as fattier products.
One clear result, of course, of the proposal before us to curtail or remove this subsidy on school milk will be decreased availability of milk and a drop in the consumption of milk in schools.
The proposals before us definitely militate against that.
This would be a catastrophe, not only for the health of schoolchildren - our future citizens - but to the viability of communities also.
We were looking to a Europe of cohesion that seeks to bolster its deprived communities and help its poorest citizens.
It is clear to me that the proposals before us are not merely a means to curtail the subsidy, but rather, in the event of a lack of participation by Member States in the wake of the subsidy cut, to terminate it entirely.
Defending communities is far, far more important.
We must keep our milk farmers farming and the communities where they earn their living as viable entities.
The Agricultural Committee deserve every support in this regard.
The Commission is proposing to reduce the level of Community aid, by amending the regulation on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products.
Increasingly young people go off to school without eating any breakfast or without having any milk in their morning meal.
Nor do we forget that some children from very deprived backgrounds skip breakfast for financial reasons.
Milk provides a very healthy and balanced diet, something we should all support.
We are in a situation in Europe at the moment where we are pouring millions of euros into the agricultural industry, yet the farmers have never been worse off in their lives.
He has challenged us to look to the future, not just in relation to milk itself, but also to milk products and ways in which we can encourage children to drink milk.
Mr President, for years I have been calling for the school milk scheme to be changed.
Currently, full-cream milk is fully subsidised, semi-skimmed milk is semi-subsidised and skimmed milk receives no subsidy.
Furthermore, a scheme with subsidies per pupil would be much easier to administer.
It is a real science calculating the fat percentages in milk and cheese.
I think, therefore, that we must vote for the amendments of my good colleague and friend, Niels Busk.
I would also like to thank my good colleague and close friend, Freddy Blak, of the Socialist Group, for his support for my amendment.
The school milk scheme concerns health and nutrition.
Children and infants must learn healthy eating habits, and milk, with its protein and calcium content, is a very important part of this.
There are various traditions relating to which dairy products are consumed, and the scheme is simplified by awarding the subsidy on the basis of a quarter of a litre of milk per pupil per school-day.
In this way the scheme takes account of the differences in the milk traditions which exist in the different Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission proposal to henceforth fund the school milk programme by means of 50% cofinancing has evoked a furious response in the Council and in Parliament.
The Union should develop its policy within this context.
For the same reasons, I am unable to accept Amendments Nos 8 and 10, which are designed to link the level of aid to milk components other than fat.
Finally, Amendments Nos 8 and 9 are intended to make it clear that the aid will be paid for a fixed quantity of milk per schoolchild per day.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Mr President, this debate on the guidelines on vertical restraints is the last in a series of four on an extremely technical subject, for now anyway.
The Commissioner knows the subject and the Members who are still to speak on this matter know at least as much as I do about it.
First of all, are we going to receive the evaluation which we asked for after three or four years of new policy in the sphere of vertical restraints?
Thirdly, the automobile distribution contracts for the time being fall outside the new policy, but the regulation for this sector expires in 2002.
In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to thank those Members - unfortunately they are not here in the Chamber - who also dealt with this subject in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, not only for this report, but also for the three reports that preceded it.
These issues cause problems, at least in my home country of Finland, and in other small Member States.
The 30% market share limit provided for under the Block Exemption regulation will cause problems relating to equal treatment for existing petrol stations, at least in Finland.
It is important to define unambiguously the relevant markets referred to in Article 3 of the Block Exemption regulation.
These are Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4.
The formula used is contained in section 147 of the Commission guidelines on this subject, which is known as the investment depreciation period.
Amendment No 3 refers to the setting of prices by the producer - the resale price - in certain cases, such as the launch of the product.
This is referred to in sections 38 and 39 of the Commission guidelines, but it is clear that, in certain cases, we have to provide flexibility and we are sure that the Commission will understand this.
Lastly, Amendment No 4 refers to the protection of producers against pressures applied by the distributor to force them to extend the contract.
We are talking about exclusive contracts, sections 131 et seq.
First of all, many thanks to you, Mrs Thyssen, for your excellent report.
Second, my thanks also to the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for supporting this important reform project.
The draft is an important step in the reform of competition policy in respect of vertical restraints.
Since the Green Paper was published in 1997, the development of the institution of vertical distribution restraints has gone through various phases, including most recently the adoption of new Regulation 2790 on the application of Article 81(3) of the Treaty to categories of vertical agreements and concerted practices.
Furthermore, in answer to your question, Mrs Thyssen, as to whether there will be a review, the answer is yes, there will indeed be a review of the guidelines after four years.
With regard to your question about horizontal measures, the Commission is currently drawing up a set of guidelines relating to this horizontal cooperation agreement.
It is very likely that this will happen before the end of April.
I am delighted to report that the European Parliament and the Commission have worked together closely and constructively on this issue.
