One year prior to elections, in a crisis situation, we are facing a major test.
I ask myself what the European Parliament is doing about this.
A single seat is how we could best cut our energy use and save EUR 200 million a year. (GA) Mr President, the European Commission should now review the operation of the Habitats Directive in the European Union.
The euro - as has been pointed out - has withstood the crisis much better than the mark, franc or lira could have withstood it.
In Europe, 132 000 women died of breast cancer in 2006.
But the environmental impact in particular of these trips in a year equate to, I am told, 13 000 transatlantic jumbo jet journeys - and this at a time when Parliament itself is trying to impose draconian environmental regulation on European business.
What I want to talk about is the Penhallow fire - which I have mentioned before in this House - a fire disaster which took place on 17 and 18 August last year in my constituency.
The international organisation representing French speakers across five continents and in 55 Member States supports the political, cultural and economic cooperation of nearly 200 million French speakers.
The seminar recently organised by the Commission kicked off a practical series of debates and consultations concerning the review in 2010 of the list of priority TEN-T projects.
I welcome the swift action by the Commission and the Member States in securing deposits and in shoring up the capital of banks, because it does not take long for a global crisis to become a domestic one. - (SK) The communist regimes in Central Europe regarded the church as an internal enemy and began to fear it particularly on 16 October 1978, when Karol Wojtyla of Poland was elected Pope.
On 21 March 2007, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice to the Danish Government in which it pointed out, among other things, that Denmark is not complying with the provisions of the directive regarding the appointing of a body for the promotion, analysis, monitoring and support of the equal treatment of women and men.
Children in the HSE Southern Region are being forced to wait up to 48 months for orthodontic treatment.
I am confident that the European Commission will present, along with the progress report on Croatia due on 5 November, a timetable that gives the Croatian Government a clear roadmap indicating how the accession talks can be concluded by the end of 2009, that is, by the end of the Barroso Commission's term of office.
I am convinced that Croatia's accession will serve as an example to its neighbouring countries and will at the same time serve as an important stabilising factor in the region.
People were brought together to work in partnership who would never have had that opportunity if it had not been for the PEACE programme.
Could I ask you, Mr President, to write to the overall strategy partnerships board expressing the thanks of this Parliament - because we are central to what has been achieved - to those people who have unceremoniously been stood down after all these years of working and giving their contributions freely to the people they hope to help? (EL) Mr President, on 16 October we celebrated World Food Day.
Today, hunger threatens approximately 850 million people on this planet and approximately 40 million die from hunger every year.
It is estimated that 2 billion people are suffering from hunger and that 55% of child deaths in the developing world are due to their poor diet.
The multilateral trade system has been an important contributor to global prosperity by opening up such markets, and the World Trade Organisation (WTO) has been most effective in providing a more level playing field for poorer nations.
It is predicted that in Ireland alone the value of output from the beef sector could decline by EUR 120 million per year and, overall, the drop in agricultural output value across Ireland could amount to up to EUR 450 million per annum.
