Non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament (debate) The next item is Council and Commission statements on non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament.
Conclusion of such a treaty would constitute a considerable step on the road to the control of nuclear weapons and to nuclear disarmament, and would thereby make a decisive contribution to the implementation of the positions agreed on and adopted by the Community at the review conferences in 1995 and 2000.
It is to be regretted that the 2005 treaty review conference was unable to agree on a substantial final document that would have constituted a response to the most pressing challenges to the Treaty.
This experience must be another reason for the European Union to make every effort to make the 2010 review process a successful one.
The 1970 Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) established the non-proliferation regime as we know it - with its fundamental balance between nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
One important example is the G8 Global Partnership against Weapons of Mass Destruction, where one billion euros have been pledged for assistance in the former Soviet Union, 400 million of which have already been spent.
For more than 25 years the Commission's Joint Research Centre has been working closely with the IAEA, providing it with scientific and technological support.
If we start again from these three principles, adjusted for today's international situation, we can give new impetus to the treaty, remembering that the balance achieved through the application of the treaty by over 180 countries is today in danger.
The European security strategy and the European strategy on weapons of mass destruction emphasise the importance of nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and the treaty itself, which all the Member States have signed.
For this reason, it will be fundamental for the European Parliament to vote unanimously, sending out a strong signal to the Council and the Commission, so that at Vienna they can have the necessary authority to play an active role in strengthening the current non-proliferation system.
While the European Union and NATO have their parts to play in this, so, too, do others - Russia, for example - and that is why we, when we talk about disarmament initiatives - about which I shall have more to say in a moment - have to ask ourselves whether Russia is our partner or our adversary.
We are having a debate on the spread of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and on that I think congratulations are in order.
One aspect of any review of military nuclear policy must be asking critical questions about civil use.
It is that, rather than having us Europeans allow ourselves - yet again - to be divided - for we can say goodbye to any single foreign and security policy if we in the EU cannot agree on something like this, these 58 billion dollars would, rather than being spent on the installation of anti-missile systems, be better invested in sustainable development, which would make more of a contribution to peace than the setting up of a dodgy missile system.
It is obvious that the brutal attacks of 11 September 2001 and everything that followed have, in fact, brought the serious efforts in the area of disarmament in general and nuclear disarmament in particular to a standstill.
I hope, Mr President, that you - or rather the Presidency - will indeed succeed in this, because the poor result in 2005 was attributable to a lack of true unanimity among the EU Member States.
This means that work is actually being done, but the cases of North Korea and Iran, the unsuccessful conference in 2005 to review the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty and differences between the United States of America, China and Russia show that much still remains to be done.
I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the advance preparations for the 2010 conference on the review of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty, and I would also ask the Council to take into consideration the European Parliament's wish to play an active part in this work, as well as the initiative expressed in Parliament's resolution, and in the very near future to include MEPs in this conference to work as members of the European Union delegation.
According to the 3 March edition of the Süddeutsche Zeitung, the Americans are planning new nuclear warheads, and that is something on which we take a critical line.
At the same time, according to the former NATO commander-in-chief Wesley Clark, preparations are in hand for a war against Iran.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, the nuclear aspirations of Pyongyang and Teheran constitute a direct threat to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT, with their respective neighbouring countries in North-East Asia and the Middle East, perhaps feeling obliged to join the nuclear powers.
Given this extremely serious situation, I expect them to make a maximum effort to convince the UN Security Council to persuade Pyongyang and Teheran away from their ominous nuclear course, as time is pressing. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear weapons non-proliferation treaty was a great achievement, but we see nuclear weapons continuing to proliferate.
That is something else that we in this House must discuss and on which we have to reach decisions. (NL) Mr President, the Non-Proliferation Treaty is, in fact, the most important pillar underlying the international consensus that the spread of nuclear arms must be stopped, with the ultimate goal, of course, as my group Chairman underlined a moment ago, of bringing about general nuclear disarmament.
At the same time, we know that there is a real risk that terrorist groups have access to nuclear weapons or similar.
According to the Americans, the rocket defence system offers protection against possible attacks from North Korea and Iran.
For this reason, we have major objections to this course of affairs, and we therefore call on the United States and the EU Member States involved to reconsider the plans and to seek multilateral alternatives compatible with the security arrangements mutually agreed by us in the European Union. (HU) Let us not embellish things, the NPT supervisory conference 2005 was a failure.
Nevertheless, there are some positive developments as well: on 16 February, the Six-Party Talks at Beijing gave rise to an agreement.
If we are successful in North Korea, then we will also succeed in relation to Iran.
Preparations for the review conference will be real and successful if we can thereby face these two great challenges, namely North Korea and Iran, and successfully solve these two problems.
The UK Government's upgrading of Trident fundamentally undermines the EU's collective position on non-proliferation and, therefore, both the UK and, indeed, France, should be strongly condemned by both the Council and the Commission. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear crises in North Korea and Iran have once again spread fear throughout the world and triggered suspicion between nations and peoples.
The international debate on nuclear rearmament has again called the future of mankind into question.
It is therefore vital to relaunch debate regarding the renewal of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 2010.
The European Union must apply suitable political, economic and commercial pressure on countries such as India, Pakistan, Iran, North Korea and other countries such as China and the United States.
In fact, the countries in the nuclear club, and in particular, today, the United Kingdom and France, will have the authority and the moral right to prevent proliferation by other countries if they themselves begin to disarm and if they place on the agenda a ban on all weapons of mass destruction.
But that is exactly what the British Government is proposing to do and, as we have already heard, tomorrow in Westminster MPs will be voting on whether to renew the Trident nuclear weapons system and take the UK and the rest of the world into a new nuclear age and a new nuclear arms race.
I would urge all the groups in this Parliament to support the resolution and the amendments to encourage UK MPs tomorrow to oppose Trident replacement and to honour the commitment made over 35 years ago when the NPT was signed. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the nuclear threat is for real, and, unfortunately, also getting more acute, as you, Mr President-in-Office, pointed out by reference to the two hot spots in Iran and North Korea.
This European Union of ours, and our Parliament in particular, have helped bring about the resumption of the six-party talks, in which we are a welcome partner, albeit not as part of the six-party talks, but warmly welcomed as a facilitator and as an outside source of support, and we have played our part in getting the talks restarted on 13 February.
Europe's position should be based on two essential ideas: strengthening the International Atomic Energy Agency and pressing for compliance with Article 6 of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
In this respect, I agree that updating Trident is incompatible with Article 6 of the NTP and, since it affects the United Kingdom, it also affects the European Union.
In addition, the EU must do all it can to ensure that the 13 steps to disarmament identified at PrepCom 2000 are implemented as quickly as possible.
We must not let them use the situation in Iran and elsewhere to hold us to ransom on the grounds of the possible misuse of nuclear energy.
In our view, the core issues are as follows: uranium enrichment and reprocessing pursuant to Article 4, including debates on regional nuclear fuel distribution centres; and secondly the need to find solutions to unauthorised withdrawals from Article 10 of the Treaty.
We therefore call on the Council and the Commission to take the lead in negotiations at the preparatory committee in Vienna and make a substantial contribution towards a positive result in the 2010 conference.
We also ask you for a implementation report on the 43 measures arising from the Council's common position, which already applied to the unfortunate debate on the Treaty in 2005.
The TBMD project that NATO is to complete by 2010 is therefore of vital importance.
Taking our present situation as our starting point, we must address ourselves with greater energy to achieving, at this preparatory stage, a common position on the matters in which we, in 2005, perceived setbacks.
I would like to make it clear that while it is not a matter of doubt that the nuclear non-proliferation treaty has come under pressure from different sides, it does - if we take it seriously and have agreed on the 2005 Common Position - offer us a basis on which we can and must rely in the present preparatory conference.
As for the exchange of information between Council and Parliament, and collaboration between them, I am able, on behalf of the Presidency to offer, firstly, a briefing for the relevant committee following the first session of the preparatory conference, and, secondly, a progress report detailing, by reference to the 43 points contained in a previous resolution, which of them have been achieved and which not.
We will study your recommendations very carefully, because the preparatory conference in Vienna gives us an important opportunity to better prepare for the 2010 conference and thus, hopefully, make up for a very difficult conference in 2005.
The debate is closed.
