As many of you have said, my election is also symbolic - symbolic of the dream of a united continent held by the citizens in our part of Europe, a dream that has now been fulfilled.
I am ready to do that work and make that effort, because those dreams were also my dreams. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, as we begin this new parliamentary term, Europe and we ourselves - its representatives - face many challenges.
The European Parliament is the essence of the European democratic system.
It is the basis for the permanence and stability of that system, a guardian of the ideals and values embodied not only in our decisions and their effects, but also in our debates.
However, the European Parliament has another task to fulfil - the task of creating a vision of a new Europe, a vision which extends beyond the present, beyond what Europe is towards what it should be.
In order to create this vision together, we need imagination, knowledge, wisdom and, above all, courage.
The single market is our great achievement.
We must protect it and consolidate it to ensure that Europe remains competitive.
We must continue to diversify our energy resources and step up investment in renewable energy sources and fossil fuels.
We need to increase the interconnections between our gas and electricity networks.
We need a green revolution and we must curb our own excesses.
The European Parliament is spearheading the debate on this subject.
Parliament is an important actor on the international stage.
This is what our citizens expect of us.
Jean Monnet once said that everyone has ambition.
Second: we should promote democracy and models of good governance.
Fourth: we must work on our strategic partnership with Russia, while not forgetting that, as in our relations with China, economic and political considerations cannot take precedence over human rights, the rule of law and democracy. (Applause) As President of this Parliament, I shall engage fully in dialogue with our Russian partners, notably in the context of the new Baltic strategy.
Europe must play an active role in this region.
There have been 22 such missions over the past six years and they should enjoy a clear mandate and the resources needed to do their job.
The European Parliament wants to ensure closer control and monitoring of these missions.
As President of Parliament, I want to draw on the vital work on parliamentary reform begun in recent years by my predecessors.
I shall do all I can to make more room for creative political debate within our Parliament. (Applause) I firmly support making greater use of the 'catch-the-eye' system for speakers, as a way of enlivening our plenary debates, and use will be made of this system after my speech.
This is particularly important in guaranteeing minority rights.
The most important missing link in the reform process is the improvement of relations with the other European Union institutions - the Commission and Council.
In July, I invited the Commission President to take part in a question time to be held each month in Parliament, during which Members would be able to ask questions from the floor.
I propose that we introduce such a practice as soon as possible. (Applause) Two weeks ago, President Barroso forwarded to us his 'political guidelines' for a second term.
This is a significant innovation, since it marks an acceptance of the fact that it is the European Parliament which elects the Commission President.
We must also work together on the institutional questions arising from the Treaty of Lisbon.
Our relations with the 27 national parliaments of the European Union must be developed in the same spirit.
The richness and strength of our institution also derive from our differences - different nationalities, different ways of thinking and different languages.
That is why Members must be able to speak in their mother tongue, if they so wish, so that they can properly represent their voters.
This remains a major problem, and I should like to offer my assistance in resolving this dispute in accordance with the values in which we firmly believe and which reflect the convictions of our Parliament. (Loud applause) A good example of how we uphold these values is the Sakharov Prize awarded to human rights defenders, who now form the basis of a 'Sakharov network', something which I intend to develop further.
I should also like us to remember once again here in this House that the Union is a community of ideals and values.
It is also time to open a debate on European political parties.
Citizens must know what they are voting for - not only in their own countries, but also at European level.
Together, we will take responsibility for the work of this House, along with the 14 Vice-presidents, whom I thank for their expressions of support.
I also appreciate the spirit of partnership shown by the chairmen of our parliamentary committees.
It will improve the Union's ability to resolve existing problems and will bring the European institutions closer to our citizens.
This illustrates precisely why ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is so necessary for us. (Applause) Less than a week ago, I was present in the Polish Parliament to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the first non-communist government in our part of Europe, under the leadership of Tadeusz Mazowiecki.
I solemnly pledge that, as President of Parliament over these coming years, I will serve as your ambassador, bringing the message of a reunited continent to the citizens of Europe and the world.
Let us work together to find real and practical solutions to the great challenges now facing Europe and the world.
Because this is our Europe.
If the European Parliament has a role to play, a mission to accomplish, over the next five years, it is indeed to reconcile the citizens with Europe.
And what better advantage in this task than to have as President a man who symbolises reunified Europe, a man such as yourself, Mr Buzek.
I am convinced that this concept of living together as Europeans brings us all together in this House.
I also support the determination that you have expressed, Mr President, to rise to this challenge, and I hope that we will make a particular effort in favour of young people.
Mr President, as you said, this Parliament has acquired powers and increased authority over the last few years.
Our primary objective is clear: to ensure that Parliament is more in tune with the 500 million citizens that it represents.
I am convinced that our fellow citizens can accept this approach, but on one condition: that we take the trouble to explain to them better the issues at stake in Europe.
However, I believe, Mr Buzek, that you are taking over your office at a difficult time for the European Union.
You are also taking over your office at a difficult time for the European Parliament.
The number of Members of this assembly who want to bring an end to European integration, the number of Members who want to reverse it and the number of Members who want renationalisation has risen dramatically.
We want an integrated Europe, we want a deeper Europe and we want an enlarged Europe as part of the deepening process, in order to achieve one thing, and this was the central sentence in your speech: the solidarity which has led to freedom.
It forms the ideological and spiritual foundation of a struggle which we must take part in during this parliamentary term.
When I was a newly elected Member, I had the privilege of hearing the speech made here by the French President François Mitterand in his role as President-in-Office of the Council.
That is what we will be fighting to achieve together with you, Mr Buzek. (Applause) Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank you on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe for your inaugural speech.
As I told you at the time, Mr President, I welcome your election as President of Parliament, not only because you symbolise the enlargement of the European Union but also - and I should like to emphasise this - on account of your involvement with Solidarność.
As was clear from your speech, Mr President, this gives you the perfect experience to realise three ambitions in the European Parliament, too, over the next few years.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be good to underline further to President Buzek's inaugural speech that, according to the Eurobarometer, the European Parliament is the European Union institution in which citizens have the most confidence.
This represents a difficult task for us all, as it means that we cannot betray this confidence and that we must give the people's voice more influence in European decision making.
I consider this a splendid opportunity for the European Parliament to urge - to require - that, in future, this budget be based on the European Union's own resources, as this Parliament will not be a real parliament until it also has complete control over its own resources, which it will be able to collect itself in future. (Applause) Herein lies an important task for you, Mr President: to join the whole of Parliament in this fight.
In this, you will be able to count on the full support of our group, as we all know, particularly in these times of economic and financial crisis, that it is not nationalism or protectionism that will relieve our difficulties or secure our future; only continuing European integration represents a solution for the peoples of Europe, for the citizens of Europe.
We would also like to see the power of national delegations within the large groups perhaps being applied to a slightly lesser extent than the approach which figures like you adopt.
Following the summer holidays and my observations of political developments, I would simply like to say that you are likely to have a very difficult task.
I would also like to take a slightly more critical approach and remind Parliament that today is the anniversary of the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
However, this Parliament has not managed to discuss any resolutions in this area and has not given our negotiators a uniform basis on which to work.
I also believe, Mr President, that everything which you said about the second major challenge facing us in the context of an international round of negotiations, that is, the challenge of the climate crisis, was correct.
I have the impression that the Europeans are still a long way from playing an appropriate leading role in the area of climate policy.
We are also unable to agree that we should begin transforming our old industrial society, that we should think more than one day ahead and that climate-friendly technologies, efficiency technologies and many other measures represent the future, not only of Europe but also of the world.
If you intend to put forward modern, sustainable ideas, our group will definitely be behind you.
On behalf of my group, I look forward to some exciting and, hopefully, productive debates. (Applause) Mr President, it was a real pleasure today to listen to your speech and your programme for the next two and a half years of our work.
The problem is that we should endeavour, in good faith, to confront our views with those of others - then there will always be room for compromise.
What is needed is that good will.
I will permit myself to remind our fellow Members and say that today in this House, there is a group of young Poles, invited by Members of different political groups.
These Poles were born on 4 June, on the day of the first partially free elections held in our country.
Mr President, I am certain that you will guard this Parliament as a democratic institution, as a place of genuine debate of people who sincerely want to help the citizens of the European Union.
And today, when we recall that you too, Mr President, come from my country, a country which has suffered so much at the hands of totalitarianism, we know one thing - and this truly is the best thing about the EU - the European Union has ensured the nations of Europe 60 years without war.
We believe in a better Europe, and it is such a Europe, a better Europe, which is closer to its citizens, that we will serve during this parliamentary term. (Applause) Mr President, I would once again like to congratulate you on your election.
We therefore need a different method of working in Parliament, one where our work and our decisions are brought into the open in a genuine spirit of true democracy.
If some MEPs do not even feel involved in and aware of the work, how can we expect our citizens to feel involved and have confidence in our work and to vote in elections?
The market has not, in fact, succeeded when it comes to satisfying people's need for work and social rights, for example.
Democracy also requires that our civil rights and freedoms never be violated.
Mr President, I again extend my congratulations to you on your appointment.
I welcomed your address, your programme, and wish to concentrate on an aspect which, in my opinion, is the most important or should be the most important for us MEPs, namely our legislative work.
Mr Barroso said that this is only right as otherwise, if the Commission were to accept legislative proposals from Parliament through written declarations and resolutions, it would violate the treaties, which do not permit this.
Political groups such as ours that express the suffering and the hopes of millions of Europeans are discriminated against, pursued and sometimes even dissolved, as the Vlaams Blok party was in Belgium in an absolute scandal that provoked not a single protest in this House.
Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, it is wonderful to see you in this position.
It is a personal victory for you, I know.
It is a victory for the European Parliament and it is also a victory for all of us who fervently support European cooperation and everything it stands for.
I would also like to thank you for the visionary speech and the ambitious plans you have for this Parliament.
We in the Council look forward to working with you and the European Parliament.
You have an important legislative role here, in representing citizens, but also in the debate that is held here.
It is extremely important for the European Parliament to always stand up for European values.
If the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force - and that is something that I certainly hope will happen - the European Parliament's role will be extended and you will have a greater influence on the European agenda.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, on behalf of the Commission and on my own behalf, I want sincerely to congratulate you once again and wish you all the best in your term of office.
Parliament and the Commission are the two Community institutions par excellence at the heart of Community matters.
You and all the Members of this Parliament have been directly elected by our citizens and the Commission has the right and the duty to put European interests above any particular interest.
That is why I want to reiterate my willingness to work together to advance European parliamentary democracy. (Applause) (IT) Mr Buzek, I very much enjoyed your speech and especially the part about the institutional, but also social role played by Parliament, which you described as the very essence of the European democratic system.
I am pleased to recall, Mr Buzek, that when, for the first time, 30 years ago, my parents voted to elect the first MEPs from Italy, there was no right to vote in your country.
In 1979, just one year after Karol Wojtyla was elected Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church, while in Italy and in other countries the first European Parliament elections were being held, you were active in the then semi-clandestine trade union Solidarność, which fought to bring democracy and freedom to your country.
For that reason, President Buzek, I am honoured to have contributed with my small and possibly non-decisive vote to your election, and I am pleased that today in Parliament, various histories are coming together and being ennobled, inspired by the same values and ideals: histories which make the great history of this young Europe strong. (PL) Mr President, I congratulate you on your election, and on a good speech.
The European Parliament has a particular responsibility to show concern for democratic procedures in that country.
It was in the European Parliament, in the foremost institution of the European Union, that support began for the great changes which took place five years ago.
I would ask that this matter, connected with the presidential election in Ukraine, be treated in a special and unconventional way, with the involvement of those institutions and delegations which have been designated for this, so that the European Parliament will be known as a serious institution which is concerned about democratic procedures in Ukraine. (DE) Mr President, I would like to congratulate you and I would like to say one thing to you in particular.
We must demonstrate clearly - and, in my opinion, this also concerns the question of the election of the Commission President - that we are making use of our rights and we must send a clear signal to the Commission.
I am pleased that in this Parliament, as a Hungarian, I can enjoy equal rights, but in Slovakia I would be punished for using my mother tongue.
Mr President, I have always admired Mr Barroso as our Commission President, who is an Atlanticist free-marketeer, which my party strongly supports and holds dear.
I am also a strong friend of Portugal, so I am very happy to support José Manuel.
It is, in fact, a Slovak-European Union dispute as it involves a country flouting fundamental European values.
It is because in my own country too, where I live in the Székely Land, in Transylvania, the current Romanian Government is still ashamed of our mother tongue and symbols.
On 2 October, the Irish electorate will be asked - for a second time - to vote for the Lisbon Treaty, a treaty cobbled together to circumvent the people's rejection of a European Constitution.
If not, their possible successors in the Conservatives should do the same. (HU) Mr President, as a Hungarian and a friend of Poland, as well as an East European and a citizen of a new Member State, I derive great pleasure and satisfaction from your work as president because it can contribute to the full emancipation of the 12 new Member States.
The fact that you are willing to mediate in the Hungarian-Slovak conflict and between the Slovak majority and the Hungarian ethnic community in Slovakia is an historic act.
I hope that the Commission will also follow this example.
Thank you for your attention and I wish you every success. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to express, Mr Buzek, how proud I am to be part of an institution as important as the European Parliament, which you chair.
The sacrifices which you made in your country 20 years ago and which today allow those 12 countries which were mentioned earlier to be represented in this Chamber make Europe stronger.
I would, however, like to express my concern over the programme you set out during your address which should, and I hope it will, strengthen Parliament.
I hope that the next President of the European Commission, who I am sure will be Mr Barroso, will listen to you on account of the forceful words that you used, to ensure that Parliament meets the needs of over 550 million European citizens who voted for us, who chose us, and who want and demand that Parliament and each and every one of us provide the answers which, perhaps, Europe has certainly tried to give, but without fully succeeding.
With regard to this aspect of your work I am hopeful, and I am convinced that through you we will manage to attain that certainty that you yourself referred to. (CS) It was John Stuart Mill who said that parliament should be a mirror of national life.
This is no mean feat and, in my opinion, it is important for our forthcoming term in office, especially as Europe is too important an issue to be entrusted solely to the decision making of the so-called political elites. (DE) Mr President, I would like to congratulate you warmly on your speech.
I would like to encourage all of us to have more confidence in Europe as a successful model and I would like to ask you to convey this idea in your speeches. (HU) Hungary commemorated the 1956 revolution and fight for freedom on 23 October 2006.
Many hundreds of people suffered serious injury, including 14 people who were shot in the eyes, many of whom also lost their sight.
Today, Mr President, we have in this European Parliament Kinga Göncz, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, who was a member of that government which sanctioned the shooting.
I would also like to ask you, on Hungary's behalf, to be true to the spirit of solidarity, to fight for human rights in the European Union, and to fight to put an end to the human rights crisis which has been going on in Hungary since autumn 2006.
I would also call on the person in this Parliament who reminds people of this situation and brings shame to the House to resign from her post as Vice-Chairman of the LIBE Committee. (HU) As a Hungarian living in Romania, I would like to congratulate President Jerzy Buzek, in the spirit of solidarity, a worthy successor to our former president, Hans-Gert Pöttering.
In the spirit of solidarity, let us remember that Polish refugees were welcomed by Hungary 70 years ago.
Solidarność and the 1956 Hungarian Revolution signified freedom, while the events in Temesvár (Timişoara), along with the personality and spirituality of Pope John Paul, represent the power of faith.
Europe also remains diverse, and what you have pledged, that the European Parliament will reflect this diversity in its work, is of immense value.
Citizens of the European Union very often receive entirely different remuneration for doing the same work.
I would like to find out what you think should be done, in the context of what was said about a common energy policy, with an undertaking which is today more German and Russian than European?
I am thinking of the gas pipeline, because you spoke about energy policy.
Yet the tremendous support which was expressed in the House during the speeches puts me under an additional obligation, because I understand that we stand before great challenges, and we must overcome them all.
I should like to stress very strongly that I realise this and that I am aware of my responsibilities over the next two and a half years of work, not only that of the European Parliament, but of the entire European Union, and also for the impression our citizens have of our work, which is incredibly important.
I do not forget where I have come from, but time is moving on so quickly.
What I really had in mind is that we need continuity.
In fact, I was speaking about what Europe should be like in five or ten years, and what direction we should be taking.
In two and a half years the new President will add new priorities, or he will modify the present ones slightly, but let us always have before us a longer perspective, perhaps even ten or fifteen years, so that we can anticipate events which might sometimes surprise us.
Mrs Harms spoke of relations with national parliaments.
We make over 50% of European law, which is then approved by national parliaments, so it is very important that we have good relations with the parliaments in our countries.
They are shown on television every day, which is not always true of our Parliament.
Let the citizens learn about the importance of what we create here in the European Parliament, and in the European Commission and the European Council.
We were both in Bali, we were both in Poznań, and we will both be in Copenhagen.
Mrs Svensson spoke about the transparency of Parliament, that we must know what decisions we make, and that our electors must also know.
The Treaty of Lisbon guarantees us considerably more powers than we have at present.
Mr Gollnisch does not doubt the sincerity of my intentions, but does he wonder whether they are realistic.
I would like to say that 30 or 40 years ago, it was completely unrealistic to think that I should ever stand before such a comprehensive body and be answering your questions.
There is also a very important programme - the Stockholm Programme.
Parliament has a lot to accomplish in the Stockholm Programme, including in the area of organised crime, and not only within the European Union.
Please remember that, for Europeans, every aspect of European cooperation is important: in the Mediterranean region, with Latin America and with the United States, but most important of all are our neighbours.
It is very important that we maintain a balance.
Mrs Lichtenberger spoke of the role of Parliament when we make law.
Mr Balczó asks if a unified Europe really does exist to the extent that I said in my speech.
Yes, indeed, it does exist, and it is united, but it is still in the process of solving, in partnership, the problems of agriculture.
Some countries of the European Union have been members for 20 or 30 years and are still part of these programmes, and we all have the same rights.
We will even out these differences, this is our hope and it is an opportunity for us, but let us now speak of a Community and also of our responsibility.
Mrs Roithová spoke about joint responsibility for the crisis, and I fully concur.
This is, of course, a question to be decided by the Commission President and the Commission.
Mr Sógor spoke of bilateral European discussions, so I would like to say that, indeed, it is best to resolve the problems of minorities bilaterally.
We have simply opened borders, and that is our goal - it is our greatest achievement.
I like your ideas very much, and the European Union in its present form, as well as in its form under the Treaty of Lisbon, are doing exactly as you suggest.
Mr Antinoro then spoke about the achievements of my country.
I certainly have the energy to do this, but what is definitely needed is the energy of over 700 fellow Members.
I agree, and this is why the responsibility and the powers of the European Parliament are growing.
The countries of that region are queuing up to join the European Union, and this is the great attractiveness of the EU.
If you would like to give me some information about this, please give it to me in writing.
We all care very much about those events, and about our profound faith in the EU.
Mr Olejniczak, however, asked a series of questions about inequality in Europe.
The situation itself remains as open and as clear as it ever was, and so it is a very good thing that we do have a united Europe.
As for an answer concerning the supply of oil, gas, and energy resources in general, we must speak about a common energy policy.
It may be the same with Iceland, but it is very difficult to determine time frames for other countries which are not so well prepared.
It takes a long time and I would not venture to give time frames, but let us remember that enlargement is a good European Union policy, although it is a long-term one.
I will sit here, where I am now, because I would like to be as close as possible to you all. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Buzek, not least for the painstaking precision with which you responded to all the speeches, without exception.
This is, for us, confirmation of our role and position in Europe.
At the same time, Poland is one of the few remaining countries which have not completed the ratification procedure for the Treaty of Lisbon, a treaty which would make European integration more effective.
I think that you could make a valuable contribution to public debate in Poland and help to increase the support of society for the treaty, which could speed up completion of the ratification procedure.
I hope very strongly that the Irish people will vote 'yes' on 2 October, and that the necessary formalities will then be completed by the Czech Republic and Poland.
This is an important moment in the history of European integration.
I wish you success in directing the work of the European Parliament in accordance with values which are important for all Europeans.
Just as the Polish Solidarity movement was able to change the face of Poland and other countries in Central Europe, so European solidarity will enable us to meet the challenges before which we stand today.
