The Northern Dimension Summit between the EU, Russia, Norway and Iceland was held at the same time.
Cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs has made progress in many sectors.
The European Union and Russia stressed the importance of direct contact between their citizens as a basis for a strategic partnership.
Cooperation between universities, as well as student exchange programmes between the Union and Russia, have been high up on the agenda this autumn, and we want to put effort into this in the future too.
Our view was that cooperation in international matters is important for security and prosperity in Europe as a whole.
The Russian side said that the agreements on visa facilitation and readmission would be sent for ratification soon.
We also need to work intensively to reduce our differences on Georgia and Kosovo, on which an exchange of views was held.
However, in general, the summit was disappointing.
The Polish veto plays a major role.
If Russia wants to invest in our industries, we must be able to invest in the same way in Russian industries.
Let us, as Europe, be united on this more than ever before. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, as the representatives both of the Council and of the Commission have indicated - without, however, spelling it out explicitly - there is no doubt that relations between the European Union and Russia have become problematic.
None of us - certainly none of the members of my own group - wants another Cold War with Russia, but we will not be silent for as long as such violations of human rights are going on as we see at present, resulting in the deaths of people who are contending for the free expression of opinion in Russia. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, a new atmosphere of cooperation has emerged between the European Union and Russia in recent months: the Spirit of Lahti, as it was called after the informal summit in the autumn.
Furthermore, it was in this selfsame spirit that we were able to bring off the recent EU-Russia Summit.
At the summit meeting in Helsinki, agreement was hampered by a row which prevented the recommencement of talks on the new partnership agreement.
Next, agreements between the EU, Russia, Norway and Iceland on the Northern Dimension were signed while the Summit was being held.
Thus, in the north we reached a new agreement which will provide a framework for cooperation in the four 'spaces' which the EU and Russia have agreed on establishing.
Discussions on this have been taking place today at talks between the Finnish and Russian Prime Ministers in Moscow.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relations and discussions between Europe and Russia are like surrealist art or a Woody Allen film.
We may need his energy, but we do not need someone who constantly mocks us. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very bold to claim that the last summit in Finland was a success, although we made our own contribution to the summit.
Whilst it is true that Russia needs the Union, it is also the case that the Union needs Russia.
Most recently, Russia has been conducting discriminatory trade policy against Poland, on the basis of forged veterinary certificates.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the latest EU-Russia Summit did not bring any specific results.
Secondly, whilst the Union is very sensitive to the issue of respect for human rights in the Member States and throughout the world, such as in relation to the war on terror, it applies different standards to Russia in this regard.
For us, it is vital to have security of energy supply, but what is important for Russia is that it has the security of a permanent customer.
The European Union must ensure that Russia displays a genuine will to resolve these issues, and that it concludes border agreements without delay with Estonia and Latvia.
We also know that mandate to negotiate a new partnership and cooperation agreement is to be extended to include the incorporation into that agreement of matters touching on energy security, democracy and human rights in Russia, and, if that is to be done, then negotiations are necessary, and a veto, by preventing the resolution of such issues, is not helpful.
At the same time, though, it strikes me as of the utmost importance that the Commission and the Council, in the course of their negotiations, should bear it in mind - and you can use this as an argument, if you like - that any such agreement must, at the end of the day, be ratified by Parliament and that we will not accept an agreement that does not include certain conditions that are decisive in terms of solidarity between all Member States of the European Union.
I am not saying this to put the fear of Russia into us, but to ensure that improved relations between the European Union and Russia are based on a sound and stable footing, and all divisions between the good and the bad, the victors and the vanquished are done away with. (PL) Mr President, the outcome of the summit in Finland was not what it might have been.
We saw it as a kind of litmus test not only of Russia's intentions towards Poland, but also of the intentions of the other Member States towards our country.
Secondly, I encourage the Commission to be more active in standing up for EU solidarity - our basic principle.
I do not think, however, in any case, that we should ignore any of our Member States.
I wish you success in your task. (HU) Mr President, trade is a very important element of the relations between Russia and the European Union.
The EU must insist on the observance of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, and must stand in solidarity with our Polish friends, speaking with one voice in order to encourage the Russian party to honour the trade agreements.
A unified position is important as well because Russia is now threatening to impose an import ban on all meat products from the EU because of the accession of Romania and Bulgaria.
It is because of this as well that the EU must take a unified stand on this issue. (PL) Mr President, the European Union must show solidarity in its dealings with Russia.
Russia is an important partner for the EU.
A sign of good cooperation is that everything, even problematic issues, can be discussed.
It is very obvious from this debate that we need a balance in cooperation between the EU and Russia.
The European Union's basic values are not up for negotiation in this dialogue.
The matter of human rights is central to the dialogue between the Union and Russia.
So we do not have to just wait around for a new mandate: we can move on on the basis of the present one.
At the end of a lengthy discussion, as regards illegally imported meat from third countries to Russia - it was not about Polish meat, I can only subscribe to that - Mr Putin agreed that he will now instruct his agriculture minister to work more intensively with the Poles.
The debate is closed.
The division of competences regarding imports and exports appears to run counter to the principles of the single market and the provisions of Article 133 of the Treaty Establishing the European Community, according to which the common commercial policy must be based on uniform principles, relating to export policy amongst other matters.
For 74 years, the communists violated the most fundamental freedoms and solidarity, going as far as to force children to denounce their parents.
In France, for example, the Front National, representing over 15% of the electorate, has no representatives in the National Assembly, and the parties in power want to prevent its candidate, Jean-Marie Le Pen, from standing in the Presidential election.
The time has now come to reunite the Eastern and Western branches of our civilisation, beyond the dividing line of Theodosius, to reconcile the heirs of Saint Benedict with those of Saint Cyril. (PL) Russia is a very important neighbour of the European Union, and the European Union is an important partner for Russia.
The European Union is based on the principle of solidarity among its members.
