Murder of women in Mexico and Central America The next item is the debate on the report (Α6-0338/2007) by Raül Romeva i Rueda, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the murders of women in Central America and Mexico, and the role of the EU in fighting this phenomenon (2007/2025(ΙΝΙ)).
Over the last two years the European Parliament has done a great deal of work on this issue, and there will be an important milestone in this process when tomorrow, 11 October, the Plenary adopts the report on the murders of women in Mexico and Central America and the role of the European Union in fighting this phenomenon.
I would like to take this opportunity, in fact, to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their support and inform you that also present here today are Marjo Searle and Arsène Van Nierop, the mothers of Brenda and Hester respectively, who were both murdered in Mexico.
For instance, as I said, I was just in El Salvador, and I visited a programme that is called 'Pro Jóvenes', which is for girls and boys - but especially for girls - who have either already been in the so-called Maras, or who could enter into the Maras, in order to prevent them from doing so.
Concerning the situation in Mexico, I would like to point out that EU-Mexico relations are based on our 1997 global agreement, in which Article 1 identifies human rights as a fundamental element of EU-Mexican relations.
On that very basis, both parties have established what I think, in the mean time, is a fruitful cooperation in the fields of human rights and justice, a cooperation which is then carried out through our different Commission programmes implemented by the Mexican federal authorities, as well as through projects carried out also by non-state actors and by NGOs.
The first message that I passed on there was the importance of achieving progress on the negotiations that will finally start at the San José Process in Costa Rica.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the reality of feminicide in Central America.
We know that many feminicide murders are committed in Guatemala and in Ciudad Juárez.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, violence against women in Mexico and Central America has, in recent years, reached dramatic proportions, with thousands of women having been the victims of violent deaths, which on many occasions have been extremely cruel in nature and often accompanied by sexual abuse and torture.
Although in many cases the perpetrators of such atrocious crimes are sick-minded individuals, in many situations organised criminal activity is very much involved, and the implication of human trafficking, prostitution and drugs is largely in evidence.
It is to be hoped that this report will be voted through this House with a very large majority, so as to give a very clear signal to all concerned that the problem of the killing of women in Central America, as indeed in other parts of the world, is a matter that should attract our full attention and necessitates the taking of very drastic and effective remedial measures.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, as a member of the Mexico delegation, I would particularly like to thank the Committee on Women's Rights and specifically the rapporteur for the fact that this problem, which has also cast a shadow on many discussions with our colleagues in Mexico, has been dealt with.
It must be addressed on a very amicable basis with our counterparts in the countries concerned because a positive development is only possible in a society when women are able to live free of fear and aggression and when threats, which are made against them and from which they suffer because they are women, are prosecuted appropriately.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Thank you, Madam President.
Thank you. (ES) Madam President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work and, in particular, for being willing to express Parliament's inescapable and unwavering commitment to the serious and urgent problem of violence against women.
I would like to say, without going any further, that in my country the statistics are devastating: 166 000 cases reported to the courts, 48 000 people detained last year (one every twelve minutes) and almost 70 women murdered; the last one yesterday, her throat cut by her partner.
I would like to finish by saying that violence against women is a problem of abuse, it is a problem of cowardice, it is a problem of intolerance and, above all, Madam President, it is a problem of fear and powerlessness, of fear of accepting the will of others and, above all, fear of peacefully imposing will and reason based on argument, peacefully and not through violence. (HU) Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Romeva i Rueda for his report, which takes a position on an important problem.
We are therefore paying particularly close attention to this serious problem in Mexico and some countries in Central America, where there is still feminicide which cannot be attributed solely to a general climate of violence.
I think that all the efforts that we are making in this direction will do little to put an end to this blot on society that should not have a place in 21st century societies.
We are also aware that, in many of the countries that have been mentioned here, such as Central America and Mexico, along with many others, the phenomenon of corruption still exists, and mafia organisations work together with leading figures in the judiciary in some cases, which means that the detection rate is still very poor.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 11 October 2007.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (SK) On 8 March 2007 on the occasion of International Woman's Day, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality in the European Parliament began its campaign for the eradication of violence against women.
This report on feminicides in Mexico and Central America is part of the overall initiative, the aim of which is the global eradication of violence against women.
According to the official Mexican statistics, 6 000 girls and women were killed between 1999 and 2006.
Feminicides in Ciudad Juárez and Guatemala are particularly alarming, and for this reason I welcome today's debate.
In this connection, I would ask the governments of Central American countries to intensify their monitoring of the exercise of corporate social responsibility by the maquiladora (sub-contractor) companies.
