Combating cancer in the enlarged EU (debate) (PT) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on combating cancer in the enlarged European Union, by Miroslav Ouzký, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - B6-0015/2008).
Another important matter is the significant differences in cancer treatment success rates between the old and new Member States.
For example, the most recent data shows that cervical cancer is over four times higher in Bulgaria than in Finland, and the risk of dying from cervical cancer is almost five times higher in Lithuania than in Italy.
The Commission is currently preparing a report on the implementation of the Council recommendation on cancer screening of 2003.
Moreover, when a person has cancer, it affects them most, but it also affects their family, their employer and society as a whole.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, cancer affects one in three of us across the European Union and results in over one million deaths.
We must ensure that more is done to secure research and innovation, giving as many people as possible access to the best in cancer prevention and treatment.
On that point, I would urge Members to support paragraph 33 and recital K of the original text agreed by the committee - remember the construction industry is not party to the social partners' agreement on crystalline silica.
It is our moral duty and it is possible.
I want to highlight one initiative in particular: the European Cancer Patient Summit, which was held this week here in Brussels under the patronage of the Slovenian Presidency, with the participation of more than 150 patient groups from all over Europe.
Yet how many of the 27 Member States have such programmes?
It makes me very happy to see that the issue of cancer is being dealt with not only by experts but also by politicians, which is very important in this case.
Yesterday I was talking with patient organisations until lunchtime, and I can tell you that what they want is adequate treatment, which can be very demanding, especially in the case of rare types of cancer.
There is still a huge gap between the 15 old and the 12 new Member States regarding the occurrence of this disease, its late diagnosis and the approach to its treatment at all stages of the disease.
We, the Members of this Parliament, will also give you our support in the search for a solution. (SL) Commissioner, I did not expect to have the chance to talk to you about cancer three times in one week.
Commissioner, I wish you much success in your work. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the media in my country are noting Germany's successful record on mammography screenings.
Screening, diagnosis and treatment have improved but not enough.
It is estimated that over 27 000 lives could be saved in the EU each year if modern screening programmes were in place across Europe.
This is especially true in respect of cancer prevention and cure. (SK) I, too, want to welcome the fact that Mrs Vassiliou was today appointed the new Health Commissioner.
In conclusion, let me take this opportunity to add my congratulations to the new Health Commissioner, Mrs Vassiliou. (HU) Thank you, Madam President, and greetings to the new Commissioner.
It is estimated that one third of cases could be avoided by adopting a healthy lifestyle, not smoking tobacco or abusing alcohol, and participating in sport and keeping to a diet. (RO) I would also like to congratulate the Slovenian Presidency for introducing this theme and, obviously, Madame Commissioner for the opportunity to debate on this subject in her presence.
However, I think a more secular approach to the ethical issues would be desirable in each of the 27 Member States, because these often constitute a hindrance and constraint on research freedom.
My country, the Slovak Republic, has for more than 30 years been running a national oncology programme to prevent cancer.
