Explanations of vote (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not support the proposal to establish a European Institute of Technology.
The European Institute of Technology is a step in the right direction.
The research objectives should mirror the Seventh Framework Programme for science and research and only research on embryonic stem cells should not be funded by the taxpayers of those countries where such research is illegal. (CS) Mr President, allow me a remark concerning the vote on the establishment of the European Institute of Technology.
That said, the proposal to establish the Institute and to give it enough space to justify its future existence deserves our support. (FI) Mr President, I wish to say a few words regarding the European Institute of Technology.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Paasilinna report on the European Institute of Technology because I consider that this will make a decisive contribution to increasing the competitiveness of the European economy, by reinforcing synergies between innovation, research and education.
in writing. - (PT) Our position on the creation of the European Institute of Technology is highly critical as a result of the position taken by various research organisations.
For example, last year the League of European Research Universities presented a study which concluded that the plan for the European Institute of Technology was 'misconceived and doomed to failure'.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the concept of a European Institute of Technology has changed in the course of the lively debate on how to promote innovation within the European Union.
Initially, the Institute was to be a European equivalent to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, within the framework of the Lisbon Agenda.
This was reflected in the separation of two budget lines in the amendments tabled by the European Parliament to the draft budget for 2008 (separate financing for the network and for the coordinating body).
in writing. - (DE) In my view, the decision to retain the idea of an EIT is a mistake.
MIT evolved with a great deal of money and diverse support, and in Europe numerous 'mini-MITs' are already carrying out world-class research.
Europe's dilemma is the inadequate financial and moral support for innovation and top-class research. 2.
The proposed EUR 309 million in funding from a reserve budgetary source blocks other parliamentary initiatives such as the strategically important Galileo project.
BP has invested USD 500 million in the biofuels sector in Berkeley in the United States alone. 3) With its own generous sources of funding and grants to the top-class European institutes already in existence, the EIT would have a prospect of success.
in writing. - I welcome in principle the idea of a European Institute of Technology.
in writing. - (FR) On Tuesday, 25 September I supported my colleague Reino Paasilinna by voting for the establishment of the European Institute of Technology (EIT).
in writing. - (PT) The European Union is now at a real crossroads in terms of its competitive capacity with regard to the rest of the world.
I believe that the vote on the European Institute of Technology marked an important step in the construction of a framework of European actions to help our economy grow and develop, based on the triangle of innovation, research and education.
in writing. - The EPLP have chosen to abstain on both the Amended Proposal and Legislative Resolution for the Report: European Institute of Technology.
We believe that the EIT administrative structure should be as least bureaucratic as possible, and therefore smaller than the proposed 21 appointed members.
Given that the Commission's proposal to finance the EIT suggests the reopening of the financial perspectives, we cannot support the report. - (NL) Mr President, I would like to take a moment to explain why I voted against the Duff report, although the Duff report is not really a controversial report as such.
In short, I am opposed to a European federal state and so I am also automatically opposed to EU citizenship, and this right to vote and right to stand as a candidate for election for EU citizens in Member States other than their own is an integral part of that.
It is actually a mark of the evolution of the European Union that EU citizenship is systematically confirmed and expanded, including now making the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union binding. (PL) Mr President, we have today voted on and adopted Mr Duff's report on the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals.
in writing. - (ES) I feel that adopting this report is a serious mistake and extremely irresponsible, and so I am voting against it.
The Duff report proposes the scrapping of dual or multiple candidacies in European Parliament elections.
in writing. - (RO) Due to the heavy system of information exchange between Member States, in practice, very few citizens know how to use the right they hold under the Treaty to vote in the elections for the European Parliament if they are residents of another European country.
Political representation in the European elections is a very important matter for countries with a large segment of population residing in another Member State of the European Union, such as Romania.
If the people of Europe do not vote in large numbers in their country of residence and if the level of participation in the European elections fails to match the aspirations of the Eurocrats it will not be because the application of voting rights and eligibility for the European elections has been overcomplicated by the need to exchange information between the Member States.
Moreover, I hope that this will serve as a lesson to the Commission, which has also been trying to reduce wine production capacity by 200 000 hectares without any regard for the opportunities that European wine producers would have for exporting to emerging markets such as China and India.
Remember that as part of the Uruguay Round, and with the Blair House Accord of 1992, the European Commission agreed to limit our oilseed growing areas to 5 million hectares.
in writing. - One of the great mysteries to the population of the European Union is how we can devise a system that pays farmers for leaving land idle.
Companies functioning in China face these pressures from the Chinese Government.
The tools used by Mattel to produce those 21 million toys are Chinese made and owned.
The reason for this is that the Chinese subsidise companies' parts if they remain in China, and to break with this system increases their costs by 20%.
I therefore feel that Directive 88/378/EC on the safety of toys should be revised as quickly as possible and that it should include efficient and effective requirements for product safety.
in writing. - (PT) Ensuring product safety, particularly the safety of toys, is a priority in the protection of public health and children's health in particular.
Companies and competent national public authorities should carry out this control and certification as a preventative measure.
in writing. - I welcome the overwhelming vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - (FR) Children in Vietnam, Africa and elsewhere are standing on land mines.
Moreover, in support of Amendments 8 and 6, I am in favour of a total ban on the use of dangerous phthalates in any toys that can be put in the mouth.
The chemical safety of toys is not just a regulatory matter; it is also a hygiene issue and as such is vital for the safety of our children.
in writing. - Transparency, reciprocity and the rule of law are cornerstones of European energy policy and consequently in our foreign policy.
in writing. - (FR) I have voted in favour of this report, which is aimed at putting in place a common foreign policy on energy.
in writing. - (PT) Energy is currently a central strategic issue.
in writing. - The report advocates a 'common European foreign policy on energy'.
in writing. - (PT) Given the growing importance of energy in modern society, on the one hand, and the growing international interdependence which is also now a common characteristic, on the other, it is impossible to exclude energy policy from the external dimension of the EU's policy, either at Member State level or in terms of the common foreign policy.
Pursuant to the action plan on energy policy adopted by the Council in March 2007, we must make every effort to develop a common European foreign policy on energy for the European Union, equipped with the instruments required to ensure its effective operation.
It is also important for the Member States to consult amongst themselves and with the European Commission on issues concerning strategic decisions on contracts with third parties in this area.
in writing. - British Conservatives recognise the need for the 27 Member States to show more solidarity in terms of external energy policy as all Member States in the coming years become increasingly dependant on imported oil and gas from third countries who could otherwise pick off the more dependant and vulnerable states to the detriment of the Union as a whole.
in writing. - The European Parliamentary Labour Party supports much of this resolution, in particular the priority given to supporting renewable sources of energy, promoting energy as one of the cornerstones of the European Neighbourhood Policy and calling for increased safeguards against pollution.
We abstained on citation 12 due to the abandonment of the Constitutional Treaty, which makes the proposed citation irrelevant.
We abstained on Amendment 2 and on paragraph 13 as we feel that the position of a new High Official for energy policy could lead to unnecessary confusion.
We voted in favour of paragraph 62 maintaining the reference to unbundling of energy production as we wish to be consistent with a previously stated position which considers transmission ownership unbundling to be the most effective tool to promote investments, fair access to the grid and transparency in the market. (SK) I voted in favour of Mrs Gruber's report.
Therefore, at all times there must be respect for the rule of law and respect for human beings. - (NL) Mr President, I did not indeed approve the Gruber report on the policy plan for legal migration for two main reasons.
In any case, not a word is said about the huge cost of immigration for the receiving countries, nor about the fact that, more than ever before, we are having to be vigilant to preserve our European culture, our values and standards, which are increasingly coming under pressure due to the massive number of immigrants from other cultures.
We do not need new mass immigration, but the exact opposite. - (NL) Mr President, in the Gruber report, Parliament is following the particularly one-sided quantitative economic approach to the immigration problem.
in writing. - (PT) Despite containing important points on migration issues which we have been defending for a long time, the report not only does not denounce the EU's current guidelines and policies - which are criminalising and repressive towards migrants - but in fact forms another aspect of these.
With the accession of Turkey the Europe being constructed by Brussels will include 220 million Asians and Africans, most of whom will be from the Muslim world.
We need a new Europe, a 'European' Europe, a Europe of sovereign nations, for that is the only thing that can guarantee our rights to defend our culture and history.
in writing. - (DE) The fact that around 18.5 million third-country nationals are living in the EU clearly demonstrates that Europe needs a common immigration policy.
What is needed instead here is the launch of a debate about the extent to which the substantially increased wealth generation throughout the European economy, which must be considered separately from demographic change, should make a solidarity-based contribution to the European social model.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which is designed to make life easier for legal migrants.
in writing. - Our vote today reflects our wish to see an efficient, humane and rights-based approach to immigration in Europe.
in writing. - We have voted in favour of Amendment 8.
in writing. - (DE) The Gruber report views immigration, in some parts, solely in terms of the usefulness of the immigrating workers as capital.
in writing. - (PT) The debate on migration too often focuses on issues of illegal flows and therefore frequently forgets legal migration, which makes an important contribution to our economy and to our cultural enrichment.
I am therefore abstaining in the final vote.
in writing. - It is a dangerous fallacy that demographic change in our domestic population requires large-scale immigration of people from different, often hostile, cultures and societies, with all the implications that this has for our national cohesion and identity, the full integration of our settled immigrant population, the impact on our public services, as well as on public health, safety and security.
I wholly oppose the transfer of powers or responsibility from national authorities to the EU in relation to our national border controls and immigration and asylum policy.
I therefore voted against this report. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report because the European Parliament has agreed a comprehensive strategy here to combat human trafficking and illegal immigration.
We therefore chose to abstain in the vote on paragraph 37.
in writing. - (FR) I fully support this excellent report and would like to add three comments of my own on the subject.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption of this report, which presents a balanced and realistic view of the issue of immigration and has achieved a broad consensus, as the rapporteur hoped.
in writing. - (PT) Despite containing certain points with which we agree, this report also assumes the repressive security-oriented view of 'illegal immigration'.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, immigration, both legal and illegal, has been recognised as one of the main challenges confronting the European Union.
All these issues have been recognised by Frontex, the Union's specialist agency.
in writing. - I welcome this report which in essence calls for a firm policy to fight illegal immigration based on solidarity between Member States and co-operation with third countries in full respect of the fundamental rights of the person.
in writing. - (DE) Despite millions of euros in funding, the countries of origin are not willing to cooperate.
Without firmness in these areas, the response will be inadequate, even though this response involves other dimensions, such as development cooperation and action in the area of legal migration.
in writing. - (SV) I am voting against the report in the final vote because I am opposed to FRONTEX and an EU border police, for which it would be difficult to secure accountability.
in writing. - British Conservatives voted against the reports on migration, as the issue of migration is solely a matter for Member States and intergovernmental cooperation.
in writing. - By insisting that non-EU spouses of EU nationals must have lived in another EU Member State before being entitled to residency in Ireland, the Government is I believe in breach of the 2004 directive.
I would remind the Commission that they informed the European Parliament in 2006 that the 2004 directive on residency should be interpreted by Member States in accordance with the European Court of Justice decisions in July 2002 (Case No C/459/99 (MRAX)) and again in April 2005 (Case No C/157/03).
