They provide revenue to more than 15 000 holdings and jobs to some 24 000 farmers.
You have requested that the Commission should submit a specific report on POSEI in 2009, if the livelihoods of banana producers, in particular, were to deteriorate following a change in the external regime.
As concerns Crete, Cyprus and the Algarve, we should keep in mind that banana production involves less than 400 hectares and some 300 holdings overall.
Given that, at EUR 176 a tonne, the banana sector is already in an extremely delicate situation that threatens the socio-economic balance of many of the producing regions, a further reduction in the customs tariff would signal the end of banana production in the Community if no adjustment is made to the plan proposed by the Commission.
The survival of banana production in the European Union also depends on its capacity to optimise its production costs while respecting the social rules and living standards of the producers.
The support system for production within the present CMO in bananas does provide for schemes for bi-monthly advances that are essential to the sector's activity in the outermost regions as in the rest of the Union's producing countries.
The 'POSEI' option involves incorporating existing aid into the POSEI programmes for banana producers in the outermost regions, namely Madeira, the Azores, Martinique, Guadeloupe and the Canary Islands.
I hope that, from now on, these new rules will put an end once and for all to the arguments within the World Trade Organisation, and I would therefore ask that, despite the new pressure from certain Latin American countries, the tariff of EUR 176 per tonne, which entered into force on 1 January following the agreement reached in Hong Kong, be defended and maintained as a minimum with a view to providing the European banana sector with a little stability.
I am therefore amazed by the debate that is taking place within the Council of Ministers on the period of reference proposed, which has led to a budget of EUR 280 million per year.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, the Commission has made a great effort to adapt the internal system for bananas to changing circumstances.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, reform of the banana market affects a couple of the so-called outermost regions of the European Union.
The future of some 300 000 jobs is at stake in the banana producing regions, whereas in Poland alone some two million jobs depend on fruit and vegetable production.
The cost of dealing with the main problems affecting the fruit and vegetable market is barely EUR 80 million a year.
I would remind the House that, on 1 May 2004, Poland and nine other countries became Members of the European Union and are entitled to be treated on an equal footing with other Member States.
I support the objectives outlined in the report, which are as follows: to maintain Community banana production, in view of its vital contribution to employment, to economic and social development and to safeguarding the environment in banana-producing regions, especially in the outermost regions.
The report also provides for a specific report to be submitted by 2009 in the event of changes to the incomes of producers, for example if the tariff changes.
I therefore propose that this be taken into account and that the Council adopt it accordingly. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, this proposal to reform the system of production aid for banana producers is a perfect example of Article 299(2), which provides for specific treatment for the outermost regions on account of their particular characteristics, being implemented in the farming sector.
It may become necessary to change marketing conditions that adversely affect producers' incomes, and the Commission must respond appropriately to such a situation by taking the necessary measures. (PL) Mr President, the European Commission's proposed reform of the common organisation of the market in bananas is consistent with the philosophy of the 2003 reform of the common agricultural policy.
Some of the support mechanisms proposed for the market in bananas would resolve the difficulties of the market in soft fruit.
As I have already explained in my introductory speech, a report on the implementation of the POSEI programmes will be presented not later than 2009 and will permit the assessment of the situation in the banana-producing regions.
The vast majority of Community producers are already members of producer organisations.
I would like to point out that the banana sector in the outermost regions meets the non-commercial criteria in force within the Union, unlike its competitors in Latin American countries.
Without the banana, which brings 15 000 jobs, representing the real economic backbone of these regions at human, social and environmental levels, the entire agriculture of Guadeloupe and Martinique would be threatened with extinction, for lack of alternative crops.
