It was answered in February 2000.
However, I must express my concern - and I ask that the Presidency communicate this to the Prague authorities - at the fact that two young Spaniards, Gaizka Azcona Cueva, 22 years old, and Mikel Oliva Martínez, 21 years old, have been detained arbitrarily since last Tuesday - nearly ten days.
Mr Marset Campos, we shall certainly take note of your statement.
Agenda The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has requested that the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the rights of language teachers, which is currently scheduled to take place on Friday morning, be postponed until the next part-session.
Mr President, the question concerning language teachers which has been put down for this Friday comes from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
It is important that we have a question and debate with a resolution at the end of it.
I note from the Minutes that the aforementioned ... (The President cut the speaker off) I am very sorry, Mr Wuermeling, but the Minutes have been approved.
The Commission' s proposal removes those rules which entitle local and national authorities to local derogations.
I totally agree with all the proposals tabled by the Commission on this issue.
If we let the matter rest until the limit value has been reached, the measures to be taken become very drastic.
I also believe, however, that it is Parliament' s responsibility to try to produce laws, rules and regulations in the European Union which can be understood by our fellow citizens who have to comply with them and who need to read them.
I would also ask you to take account of farmers whose fields border either very busy roads or industries which have contaminated large areas.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should bear in mind the fact that one of the new features in the White Paper on food safety was the 'farm to table' idea, which made farmers directly responsible for the quality and the safety of the animal and vegetable raw materials that they produce.
As I personally am not prepared to sacrifice food safety on the altar of the agri-food lobbies, I have withdrawn my name from the report.
It would be much better to add healthy products until an acceptable level of pollution is reached.
If we were to continue to allow dilution, this dioxin present in animal feedingstuffs would first build up in the animal, and then, to an even greater degree, this toxic product would gradually accumulate throughout the consumer' s body.
With regard to inspections, the Commission' s proposal for a directive on inspections in the field of animal nutrition stems from the report by Mr Staes.
As draftsman of the opinion, I approve of the main amendments proposed by the Commission, such as the establishment of national contingency operational plans, giving the Commission the option to adopt interim protection measures, the obligation on Member States to inform the Commission as soon as contamination or serious risk thereof is detected, and the creation of a legal basis in this field.
It should be emphasised that inspections must take place on three levels in order to enable an emergency system to be established.
The second level, of course, involves the Member States, who are responsible for carrying out inspections of food safety.
What will the role of the European food agency provided for in the White Paper be, once it is up and running?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we want to guarantee the safety of animal feed and human foodstuffs, and to that end we need a workable European regulatory framework.
The crises of recent years have made everyone, including ourselves, more keenly aware of the situation.
The 1999 Directive was well thought-out, and it has already scored its first success by demonstrably reducing pollution levels.
Farmers have a right to flawless animal feed.
Nor do I have any problem with allowing dilution or blending in the case of certain products, provided it is always carried out under the control of the Member State and of the Commission.
If all of us were served animal feed in the canteen downstairs for a period of time, if we were able to see on our own plates exactly what animal feed is, we should perhaps deal with the issue rather differently and be just as hard and as stringent as we are on the safety of food for human consumption.
The dioxin crisis that struck Belgium over a year ago made a deep impression on people all over Europe.
This crisis not only cost billions of euros, but also resulted in even more suspicion about what we eat.
PCBs and dioxins are toxic substances, even in very small quantities.
I hope that the latter will change their minds for the plenary sitting, because I cannot see any arguments that could justify the inconsistencies in the Commission' s draft proposal.
I therefore think that, given the prevailing attitude in the House, we can face the vote with confidence and hope to achieve a majority, which will enable us to put our point of view across at second reading.
The detection of dioxins in citrus fruits that have been imported into the Community to serve as animal nutrition revealed the loopholes in current legislation on inspections.
On this point we are in agreement.
It is time to break with a misguided interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity, which attempts to increase Brussels' s hold on our nations a little more each day.
There is a significant reason underlying our contribution, particularly regarding Article 5, which stems from the fact that, although this is a major, coherent instrument, its scope is still limited, for it concerns production measures and does not deal in any way with the commercial side of things.
We are calling for a comprehensive assessment of the issue precisely in order to afford better protection to farmers.
Mr President, it is the duty of this Parliament and this Commission to protect the health of all citizens of the European Union.
That is what we are trying to do in this report, on which I congratulate Mrs Paulsen.
These proposals also mean a step towards a complete package of measures in favour of food safety.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate, which highlights the important role of the European Parliament in the crucial area of food safety, public health and environmental standards.
It is in the interests of farmers and consumers to restore consumer confidence in food.
In this very sorry saga, farmers have in many cases been the innocent victims of circumstances beyond their control.
The chicken dioxin crisis highlighted the shortcomings in Community legislation and animal nutrition.
These directives are part of the most radical shake-up of the Community's food safety hygiene rules for at least 25 years.
I am confident that with this systematic set of uniform rules we are laying the groundwork for filling the gaps in the existing legislation and enhancing food safety throughout the food chain.
These three reports place us on the horns of a dilemma.
As for the declaration of feed materials - the open versus the semi-open declaration - our dilemma is surely between consumer protection and economic viability.
I should like to conclude by dealing briefly with two problems relating to the declaration.
Unfortunately, however, despite all our efforts, it will never be possible to completely eradicate criminal practices.
For my own part, finally, the quality of our food concerns me less than the eating habits of our citizens in general.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paulsen' s report on undesirable substances and products in animal nutrition deals with an important subject, which, like all important subjects, is highly controversial.
Mr President, this directive forms part of the consistent set of measures which is planned actively to render all stages of the food chain safe.
We must attempt to improve food safety and to rule out any crises which not only put the confidence of the consumer to the test but also bring the entire agricultural sector into disrepute in the long run.
I believe that the consumer is not prepared to wait for this to happen and I also have the feeling that, whilst the compound feed sector is still creating problems at the moment, it is ultimately the farmer, in fact, who ends up footing the bill for the damage done to consumer confidence.
Marit Paulsen has played a very creditable role in this work by drafting her report on undesirable substances in animal feedingstuffs and the monitoring of feedingstuffs.
The committee also adopted the amendment we tabled, reminding everyone of the division that exists in respect of rules for feedingstuffs produced on farms and commercially produced feedingstuffs.
The good quality of the former is regulated by legislation on hygiene and the directive on undesirable substances in animal nutrition is most essential with regard to the latter.
This proposal will without doubt enhance the safety of feed.
Amendment No 18 explicitly proposes to include water in the definition of feedingstuff.
In any case the Commission cannot accept an amendment which would prohibit decontamination.
Amendment No 33 deletes the possibility of exporting non-complying consignments to the country of origin.
The Commission cannot accept this amendment.
The possibility of re-exporting non-complying consignments to the country of origin should remain open.
On the basis of these scientific risk assessments the Commission will propose to the Member States appropriate measures to limit the presence of these substances in feedingstuffs.
Amendment No 38 is unacceptable as it falls outside the scope of this directive.
Amendments Nos 39 and 40, proposing to delete the possibility of establishing an action threshold are similarly unacceptable.
In order to protect public health it is important that the overall contamination of food and the feed chain is reduced to a level as low as reasonably achievable.
Dilution does not reduce the overall load of contamination in the food and feed chain.
Having extensively explained why the Commission cannot accept the Amendments Nos 18, 27, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44, I am glad to say that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34 and 45, as these amendments constitute an important clarification of the Commission's proposal with the understanding that with some of these amendments, in particular Amendments Nos 3, 4, 30, 34 and 45, further editorial changes may improve the text.
Regarding Amendment Nos 20, the Commission can accept the insertion of a definition for consignment but the proposed definition itself needs further consideration as does the need to include other definitions.
Now I want to turn to the second major proposal for discussion today with important implications for food safety.
This proposal is the follow-up to one of my first commitments to improve food safety and provides for a system to exchange information in the field of animal nutrition, with particular reference to a rapid alert system and a legal basis to enable the adoption of safeguards measures for products produced within the Community and also the obligation for the Member States to have in place contingency plans to deal with feed emergencies.
Considering the amendments tabled for adoption in this plenary session, I appreciate Parliament's support of the proposal.
On behalf of the Commission, I can accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 18, 23, 25 and 26 because they provide clarification and increase transparency.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2, 14, 17 - the first sentence in particular - and 19 concerning the deletion of the adjective "serious" when clarifying a risk for consistency with our general policy laid down in the General Products Safety Directive.
In other terms, not all risks need immediate action at Community level.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 5 and 22 on the rapid alert system as they are currently worded.
This should be sufficient, considering our commitment to establish a rapid alert system covering all the food and feed chain in the new proposal on the food authority.
In principle, I am not against Amendments Nos 15, 16, 20 - last paragraph - concerning the change from "decontamination" to "rendering the product harmless" however we will introduce some editorial changes in relation to that.
We cannot accept Amendment No 21, second indent, (a), because there is a linguistic misunderstanding: "cross-contamination" is the appropriate wording to be used.
Finally, we cannot accept Amendment No 27 introducing in the recitals, reference to civil and criminal liability in the event of loss or damage.
Overall therefore, the Commission can fully accept 15 of the 27 amendments.
It is gratifying for me personally to be able to serve as rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, since this problem has been with us now for decades.
We always stressed the need for openness.
We then pressed this point again in the temporary committee which was created with a view to following up the recommendations on BSE, but the Commission asserted in 1998 that declarations were already open.
Yes, you did mean it, and now we have a draft on the table, a draft that is entirely in line with our wishes.
One such measure is the introduction of open declarations, and an open declaration is not merely an indication of the percentage of various content categories or generic classifications but clear and precise details of the ingredients contained in the feed mix.
The Commission has pledged itself to work on this list and has also said it is not something that can be done in a couple of days.
So if we were to do what we intend, if we were to implement it quickly and then pass quickly through the codecision procedure too, that would certainly be a huge step forward, and I feel sure that we shall be very strong and united in our dealings with the Council.
Just think of BSE or dioxin, and you will know what I mean.
That is their right as purchasers as well as being consistent with the interests of consumers.
The question of genetically modified cereals should be regulated elsewhere.
The Socialist Group endorses the statements made by the rapporteur in his conclusions on the open declaration of feed ingredients.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking for my group, I assume that the report on the proposal for a directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs will obtain the consent of the European Parliament.
I also expect the Commission to stipulate the necessary measures along with a strict timetable in order to ensure that the directive is applied in the Member States of the Union.
The basis for the introduction of open declarations, in other words the full listing of all feed materials, differs extremely widely between Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the issue of the composition of feedingstuffs for animals, if we are to eliminate mercury, lead, arsenic, DDT, etc., we must address the question of the way in which these products are marketed.
Even if we are pleased with this progress, however, how can we forget that before we finally adopted measures it took ten years and 80 deaths, and in two years' time we may well yet discover a zoonosis, a health disaster?
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that this Commission proposal is most welcome.
Indeed, it addresses a long-standing concern of Parliament, which has at times, in 1997 and 1999, asked for a review of current legislation on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs.
We all agree that there is a need for compulsory labelling that clearly indicates the various components of compound feedingstuffs and their nature.
As we all know, these measures are fundamental for increasing consumer confidence.
There is in fact a general lack of confidence, which is particularly marked in relation to intensive production processes, not only in meat production but also in fish farming.
It is possible, through clear, transparent and responsible labelling, to give consumers this confidence.
It is essential that the Commission and the Council should fight for these same rules to apply to all partners worldwide, especially in the framework of the World Trade Organisation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a surfeit of scandals has shaken public and consumer confidence.
As far as the directive on undesirable products and substances in animal nutrition is concerned, let me say from the outset that we need a more workable solution here which strikes a fair balance between the interests of producers and those of consumers.
I cannot but warmly welcome the pressure for the creation of a European information system for food crises, the standardised transmission of information on the monitoring and safety of animal feed and the dissemination of information on cases of contamination and of damage to public health and the environment.
What we feed our livestock is just as important to us farmers as it is to the consumers who subsequently buy our meat.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts and praise the important work of the institutions in their approach to animal health which also, of course, facilitates the protection of human health.
I am grateful that this matter is finally coming to its conclusion and that we are going to have a solution as swiftly as possible.
The tighter measures which the rapporteur announced in his report and which encompass, for example, an exhaustive list of products, for which he calls on the Commission for help, is an interesting proposal and will only reinforce this policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regard this amendment of the Directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs as a step in the right direction on a long road.
The first aim is to create traceability of foodstuffs back to their origins, in other words maximum transparency.
The second is to restore consumer confidence in European food products after the BSE crisis and the dioxin scandal.
The food industry has the necessary information to hand.
As stressed in the report by these two committees, this proposal was initiated by the European Parliament out of a concern to improve both traceability and the provision of information through the labelling of compound-feeding stuffs.
The Commission proposal does not enjoy the unanimous support of all parties concerned.
In my opinion, this is a legitimate right to information which must be satisfied.
As far as the amendments presented are concerned, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4 and 5 that improve the Commission proposal.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 2 calling on the Commission to present, forthwith, a proposal setting out an exhaustive list of the materials authorised for feeding animals.
The procedure whereby this can be done is the amendment of 1996/25 to convert the current non-exhaustive list of feed materials into an exhaustive positive list.
This can be done by codecision under Article 152.
Finally, in relation to Amendment No 6, this amendment is not acceptable as it falls outside the scope of this directive.
Five bodies have been found and the rest have disappeared.
On my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries, I would ask you, Madam President, to send Parliament' s condolences to the families of the victims and to the local authorities in both Brittany and in Marín, Galicia, from where the majority of the victims came.
Mr Swoboda, we quite agree.
When we vote on these paragraphs, I shall ask if there are any objections to inserting them after paragraph 1. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, may I just make a brief comment.
Mr President, the reason for this amendment concerns the fact that recital c) highlights the persistence of segregation in children' s education and serious discrimination in the various sectors of Hungarian civil society, from the economy to the public sector, which in its seriousness does not correspond to my perception of the current situation, which I have had the opportunity to observe as rapporteur and during my visits there.
The formulation that I now propose does not try to hide or deny the existence of discrimination against the Roma community, which unfortunately still exists, but it stresses the need to adopt a set of positive measures leading to the free, unforced assimilation of the Roma into Hungarian society.
We shall now adjourn the voting in order to make way for the formal sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12 noon and resumed at 12.35 p.m.) Mr President, my intention is to combine the three amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats in a new formulation, which would make Recital A a new paragraph.
Welcome, our Estonian friends! (Loud applause) Vote (continuation) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Explanations of Vote - Brok report (A5-0250/2000) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I am very pleased to announce that I voted for the resolution on the procedure for admitting these important new States to the European Union.
Secondly, that the candidate countries continue to make the good progress that they are making towards meeting the Copenhagen criteria and towards the full and complete enforcement of the acquis communautaire in advance of accession.
The Brok report gives us grounds for satisfaction, but no room for complacency.
Almost all the reports on the twelve countries that are candidates for membership of the European Union express satisfaction with the progress that these countries have made in order to fulfil the necessary conditions.
Admittedly, this report has the merit of providing an insight into the immensity of the task that awaits us if we wish, not even to bring the candidate countries of Eastern Europe up to the level of development of the West, but simply to establish conditions for peaceful coexistence and a gradual rapprochement between the two areas that would not be too destabilising for either side.
The task is huge and also a matter of the utmost priority.
If we had to give reasons for the existence of the European Union today, top of the list would be the huge task of closing the gulf that Communism created between the two halves of Europe.
Unfortunately, from the institutional point of view, the Brok report falls in completely with the standard Brussels ready-made way of thinking: it takes the view that enlargement consists of bringing Greater Europe into the institutions of Little Europe.
The statements that we find most unacceptable are to be found in the combination of several paragraphs of the resolution for which the European Parliament voted: firstly, paragraph 27 and those that follow, which imply that full participation in the single currency, even if not immediately, must be a condition for membership.
It is even more unacceptable to seek to turn this participation into a commitment to a global and irreversible political project.
This paragraph alone justifies all the fears that our Danish friends have expressed in recent weeks during the referendum campaign, and which, quite rightly, were the reason for their "no" vote.
Many other passages in the European Parliament' s resolution are equally unacceptable.
Paragraph 45, for example, requires candidate countries to grant the freedom to purchase land to nationals of Member States.
Furthermore, this is the type of problem that was taken into account in 1992, in Protocol No 1 of the Maastricht Treaty, in order to grant an exemption allowing the Danes to maintain their restrictions on the purchase of second homes by non-residents.
Paragraph 65 is another example of Brussels' s desire to dominate and unify, stating that the non-discrimination clause provided for in Article 13 of the EC Treaty is part of the 'acquis communautaire' and insisting that "legislation derived from this article be fully implemented in the CEECs" .
Even if one approves of the principles of Article 13, it is quite clear that derived legislation that the European Union may draw from it sometimes goes too far, and that there are no grounds for refusing candidate countries the right to cultural diversity.
Enlargement towards the countries of Eastern and Central Europe (CEEC), Cyprus and Malta has been called an 'historic task' for the European Union.
Extending the European Union, at least in the first stage, to more than 100 million new citizens, will provide new impetus for the development and integration of the European economy as a whole.
The first wave of new Member States could increase Europe' s population by more than a quarter, taking it to almost 500 million people, whilst the total GDP of the European Union would increase by only 5% at the most.
The report urges the Commission and the Council to ensure that the principle of differentiation, as defined in Helsinki, is implemented to the letter, so that each country is judged on its own merits.
To return to the budgetary aspect, I think it is crucial that we study the budgetary consequences of such a large number of new Member States joining before the end of the current financial cycle in 2006.
Lastly, I wish to stress the fact that the enlargement process must be a gradual one, following the pace at which the candidate countries are making the necessary changes.
His report clearly sets out the issues and the objectives of enlargement in the field of regional policy and he does so in both political as well as financial terms.
In order for this to happen, candidate countries need aid, particularly through the PHARE programme.
This report forces us to face our responsibilities and that is why I voted in favour of it. - (SV) In adopting our position, we have been guided by the following basic attitudes: 1.
If the country so wishes, it should be possible to extend the the transition period. 2.
When the candidate countries accede to the EU, they must be treated in the same way as all the other EU Member States.
This is an excellent report which, as well as analysing the progress made and the difficulties still facing the countries with which negotiations have begun, also serves as a reminder to the public of the political and ethical commitment which the European Union, this Parliament, has made, not only to the candidate countries which wish to share our European history, and have the right to do so, but also to the political project of European integration itself.
I believe that enlargement will not only favour the prosperity and economic growth of the candidate countries and, by extension, that of the current Member States of the Union, but will, above all, also provide a guarantee of peace and stability in Europe and thereby offer the European Union the opportunity to finish the task of ensuring peace in Europe, which began fifty years ago.
It was decided in Berlin to allocate approximately EUR 3.1 billion a year to the gradual integration of the applicant countries for the period from 2000 to 2006, which amounts to a total of about EUR 21.8 billion, and to earmark a further EUR 58.1 billion for enlargement from the year 2002.
The financial framework for the enlargement of the Union, however, can only be facilitated through a rise in the current Member States' contributions and not through constant cuts in planned expenditure on the various Community policies.
Although it may be difficult to have the various sensitivities, histories and, sometimes, contradictions live side by side, enlargement must adhere to this concept of peace and take part in the creation of a community that transcends ancient geographical and ideological borders, guided by common values and rules.
Nevertheless, in order to prevent Europe becoming nothing more than a free trade area, the European Union must provide clear answers to the institutional, social and economic questions that enlargement is bound to raise.
We must, as of now, adopt a pragmatic approach to the implications of a Europe not of 15, but of 25 or 30.
It is about formalising a system which allows financially strong EU companies to dominate neighbours in the East and South, at the same time as the EU develops into a military superpower.
French workers have no more had the chance to say what they think about the Charter of Fundamental Rights than the people of Lithuania have about joining the Union.
The criteria laid down at the Copenhagen Council in 1993 on democratisation or the ability to withstand competition actually strengthen the hand of unrestrained, destructive capitalism, in the guise of acquis communautaire.
We want another Europe, an alternative model of European integration, a Europe that is great, the Europe formed by the cooperation of independent sovereign nations, whose aspiration is to include all the countries of Europe, just the countries of Europe.
Consequently, in most Member States, neither the citizens not the parliaments have deliberated on the principle and conditions of enlargement.
Until the definition of a political and social Europe is made clear, not only in order to overcome the obstacle of the proper technical operation of the decision to be taken at 23 months but also in order to define the framework of the values, common social and citizenship models, enlargement will entail running more risks than it creates opportunities.
I abstained in the vote on this never-ending resolution on enlargement because I believe that Parliament would be doing a disservice to the politically important and worthy cause of eastward and southward enlargement of the European Union to the south and east with this semi-digestible screed of paper.
I even fear that this collection of country reports and comparative reports will prove counterproductive, particularly in the countries that have applied for membership of the European Union, and more especially in the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
The impact of this long-winded resolution of 127 paragraphs, indeed, is liable to be in inverse proportion to its length.
Reading the section of the resolution entitled 'Enlargement and Equal Opportunities' , which states that the adoption of the Community acquis in the area of equality is a sine qua non for accession and makes other demands of the applicant countries, I have the impression that all this could be interpreted by those countries as the ultimate bid to block their accession.
So it would be nothing less than arrogance on our part to expect more of the applicant countries in this domain than we ourselves have been able to achieve in the 25 years since the adoption of the first directives relating to equal opportunities.
I also wanted to send a signal that would be properly understood in the applicant countries, to convey the message that we are in favour of accession but that we, like they, must first be in a position to create the necessary conditions for their membership.
The EU' s Member States have an historic task which consists in welcoming the countries of Eastern and Central Europe into European cooperation.
Enlargement ought not, however, to be regarded as a problem, but must be seen as an opportunity for deepening cooperation on cross-border issues which the States cannot solve on their own.
Europe' s leaders must therefore begin to show the political will to accept the challenge posed by enlargement.
If Europe is to become whole, the objective must be for all Member States to participate in all areas of cooperation.
Objectively, this complex process can take up to 20 years to complete.
The size and breadth of the problems raised by enlargement are incompatible with the duplicitous language that has been used about it within the European Union.
A Europe of this type would be a guarantee of peace and would signify the rejection of any ethnic nationalism.
The prospect of uniting nations around a common political project, on a democratic basis and in order to promote the prosperity and welfare of the various peoples is an exhilarating one.
This must be the objective of a greater Europe.
For me, enlargement is not a question of whether to endorse the entry of certain countries into Europe.
Europe and the European Union are two different things: the European Union is a political entity conceived 50 years ago whereas Europe is a geographical, historical, political, cultural and social entity whose origins lie in the mists of time.
To become part of the European Union one needs to apply, whereas one becomes part of Europe by birth, through a blood tie which unites all the people of this wonderful continent.
In general, we are all in favour of enlargement, but this will only fully come about when the candidate countries have carried out the necessary structural reforms, when the European Union's institutions and decision-making processes are capable of handling such a situation and, most importantly, when we at last realise that Europe is not a question of political status but, more than anything else, a story of roots and common history, blood, sweat and tears, dreams and visions, which unite us above and beyond political and economic issues.
Carlsson Report (A5-0238/2000) Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to announce that I voted for the measure on Estonia's application for membership of the European Union.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend a greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of Estonia, in the hope that we will look after their interests once they join the European Union.
It is therefore very positive that accession negotiations with all applicant countries have made progress.
Enlargement will also benefit the present members of the European Union.
With respect to the question of Estonia' s minorities, the important language law, which was passed in June 2000, is in accordance with all international norms.
Schroedter Report (A5-0239/2000) Mr President, both on behalf of the Pensioners' Party and on my own account, I voted for the report on the Republic of Latvia's application for membership of the European Union.
And it is this feeling - or lack thereof - much more than meticulous analyses of the accounts, which should, when the time comes, govern our choices regarding enlargement as European integration ceases to have any meaning if it is no longer primarily political.
The pettifoggery intended to alter the frame of reference used to view events when they run counter to the slightly too rigid technocratic and monetary dogma - this House' s astounding indifference in the fact of the outcome of the Danish referendum is a splendid, worrying example of this - should not be used as a benchmark for a debate of this importance.
And so, in agreement with the observations and comments made by the rapporteur, I therefore welcome this dialogue and the prospects it gives rise to.
Hoff Report (A5-0240/2000) Regarding the stage reached in the agreements on Lithuania's accession to the European Union, I would like to take this important opportunity to extend a warm greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of Lithuania.
As the rapporteur, Magdalene Hoff, declared, it is important for the Ignalina nuclear power station to be closed down, as it is particularly dangerous.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend a greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of Poland, some of which belong to a Pensioners' Party which is similar to the Pensioners' Party which I represent in the European Union.
Let me remind you that the agreement between Europe and Poland was signed in December 1991 and came into force in February 1994.
On 5 April 1994, the Polish Government made its official request for membership of the European Union and, on 31 March 1998, negotiations were officially opened.
By dint of its geographical position it represents an extremely important factor in the stability of the future geopolitical position of the European Union.
Accession negotiations with Poland have entered a crucial phase with the opening of all the chapters, including the very important chapter of agriculture.
The European Commission has published the second report on Poland's progress along the path to accession.
It notes that a great deal of progress has been made thanks to the efforts made by this country, particularly in terms of adopting the Community acquis.
Moreover, Poland fully respects human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Restructuring of the agricultural sector would appear to be necessary in a country where the rural population represents 38 % of the total population and accounts for 4.9 % of the GDP, and where agricultural employment is estimated at 27.4 % compared with 5 % within the European Union.
I am fully aware that the Polish authorities consider that Poland will be ready for accession by 31 December 2002.
Poland is making considerable efforts.
I note that the Poland is making excellent progress towards meeting the Copenhagen criteria and fulfilling the acquis communautaire.
We therefore have a duty to embrace Poland as a Member as soon as possible and treat the country as it deserves, as one of our Members for all time.
Most of all, this country, which has ceaselessly fought against all hegemony, will bring us a new but, at the same time, experienced insight enabling us to parry the risks of any new imperialism, even that apparently inoffensive one - which may yet be a harbinger of the worst perils - of noble sentiments and a quiet conscience on the cheap.
If the Czech Republic joins the Union without the considerable safety risks of Temelin being resolved, it may well prove difficult in future to persuade other candidates for accession to take the nuclear safety requirement seriously.
Wiersma Report (A5-0244/2000) Mr President, I voted for the report on the current status of Slovakia's application for membership of the European Union.
As Mr Wiersma said in his report, I would stress the progress made in the Slovakian Republic in the area of the protection of minorities.
It should be noted, in particular, that it is permitted to use the Roma language in 57 districts where the Roma population exceeds 20%.
I have no doubt that the European Union will make every effort to resolve their problem.
I look forward to early membership for Hungary.
I abstained from the final vote on this report.
The existence of serious discrimination against this community, one of the most victimised communities in Europe, is a key element casting doubt over whether Hungary is truly committed to making Europe an area of peace, democracy and prosperity for all its constituent populations.
I look forward to Bulgaria joining the Union in the not too distant future.
I note that Slovenia has made excellent progress towards meeting the Copenhagen criteria and is making good progress towards fulfilling the acquis communautaire.
I hope Slovenia will be in the first group of new members.
In addition, the report called for the repatriation of settlers which presumably includes their children born and raised in Cyprus.
The European Parliament has failed in its duty to reflect a balanced approach which I very much regret.
The UN settlement process has now lasted since December 1999 without a break, longer than any of the previous attempts to solve the Cyprus problem.
The UK position is that it is vital for us to do everything we can to show our support for the Secretary-General's efforts.
Unfortunately some of the comments made in the draft report on the application by Cyprus for membership of the European Union by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy are not helpful.
The European Commission' s assessment is very positive.
I would also like to urge that the European Union, through its High Representative for the CFSP, should get involved to a greater extent in seeking a negotiated solution in order to put an end to the partition of the island, in application of the United Nations Security Council resolutions.
The European Union does have the capacity to make a key contribution to the security of the Cypriot communities in the context of a peace settlement.
It is essential to initiate projects involving both communities and to encourage dialogue between both parts in a new spirit of trust.
It is therefore essential for Turkish Cypriots to express their point of view on the accession negotiations.
It is unfortunate that the EU takes a one-sided position on such an acute and difficult question.
We are convinced that initiatives at all levels are required if to break the deadlock which have been reached in negotiations.
From the economic point of view, the accession of Cyprus should not pose major problems, since it is a country with a market economy and a high standard of living.
Paulsen Report (A5-0257/2000) Mr President, what remains to be said on the subject of food safety and the precautions to be taken in order to avoid further instances of contamination or further food crises?
Every link in the chain must be responsible for what it produces and for its precisely identifiable role.
The safety bolt guaranteeing this discipline lies in the Commission' s determination to ensure that consumers are provided with consistent quality, at all levels, in the products available on the market.
Food safety requires that we must increasingly pay the closest attention to feedingstuffs, given the close links that exist between animal nutrition and human nutrition.
Another positive step is the ban on diluting batches of products that have higher levels of undesirable substances than the established maximum limits with non-harmful products in order to get around the established maximum limits.
We must effectively be vigilant in this area as animal feedingstuffs are the first link in the food chain.
The prohibition of undesirable substances in animal feedingstuffs is therefore a basic element in our food safety policy.
The destruction of contaminated foods or food compounds provides a twofold guarantee making it possible to limit the trafficking in this type of food.
It was, moreover, essential to step up harmonisation of the conditions of performing checks and inspections in the field of animal feedingstuffs.
Paulsen Report (A5-0256/2000) It is important that a full, detailed declaration of the ingredients of compound feedingstuffs should become mandatory to guarantee their safety, by means of clear, transparent labelling which will allow stock farmers to make their own decisions on feed purchases.
As we all know, back in 1997, in the aftermath of the BSE crisis, Parliament called for legislation to this end, and this call was reiterated after the scandal in Belgium last year when dioxins were found in feedingstuffs.
I welcome the vote by this Parliament deploring the flagrant violations of James' rights under UN international law.
We, as elected Members, are outraged that 51 democratically elected members of the NLD are in prison, victims like James, of inhuman and cruel abuse.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to my co-rapporteur, Elizabeth Lynne, for her cooperation and constructive comments and extend that gratitude to all Members of the Article 13 Rapporteurs' Working Group.
I should point out to Members that the Council working group agreed unanimously to recommend to the Council that the type of committee in the action programme should be modified to a mixed committee, a combination of the management and advisory procedures, thereby increasing the power of the individual Member States.
The Council informed Parliament before the vote in committee, but only just before, deliberately ruling out any chance of further debate with myself or Parliament.
A politician can have no greater responsibility than to be given the opportunity to redress the wrongs so often visited upon minorities.
I accept that responsibility eagerly, with a determination to ensure that this action programme to combat discrimination, not just in the EU but also in the candidate countries, is not the end of a noble process, but the beginning.
Whilst compiling my report, I was sad to realise that some NGOs believe their continuation is more important than that of other groups.
In my report, I have called for greater representation and involvement of NGOs, greater accountability to Parliament, the production of an annual report to be debated by Parliament, the highest possible degree of transparency, promotion of remembrance of the past in the fight against prejudice and the recognition of multiple discrimination.
I urge Parliament to support my report.
That is why it is quite essential for the groups listed in Article 13 to be effectively protected against discrimination.
No wonder the French Presidency of Council described this issue as one of its priorities.
In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs we defined "reasonable adjustment" very precisely in Article 2(4), together with the circumstances under which undertakings cannot reasonably be expected to pay the costs involved, i.e., if they are too small or their turnover is too low.
Article 9 of the draft directive states that persons who consider themselves discriminated against, whether as unsuccessful job applicants or as dismissed workers, can seek legal remedy.
Only associations, organisations or legal entities representing the interests of employees and the groups protected by Article 13 should be entitled to initiate proceedings.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs decided by a majority that these agencies should be set up in the EU Member States rather than setting up a central body at European level.
These communities make vital contributions to society in terms of social facilities such as nurseries, hospitals and educational institutions.
The Action Programme must enable groups that are discriminated against to take action themselves.
Briefly, on the employment directive, I would like to congratulate Thomas Mann for an excellent report.
I also urge you to vote for the amendment by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on age.
Indeed, equal treatment is a fundamental constitutional right which forms one of the cornerstones of the European Union.
They also form part of a practical policy because directives and action programmes encourage the Member States to fight discrimination on the basis of the same guiding principles and because the Commission can fulfil its role as Guardian of the Treaties but also as a pioneer in the social debate.
Not only do the social activities which underpin the social programme complement the directive' s legal framework, they also need to generate the extra information, the expertise and the support structure to complement and improve this legal framework.
The two proposals which the European Parliament is discussing today are both based on Article 13 of the EC Treaty.
It thus follows in the footsteps of the current Article 141, formerly Article 119, which lay - and still lies - at the basis of European legislation to combat sex discrimination.
First of all, we are dealing with a different decision-making procedure involving the European Parliament which, with regard to the implementation of Article 13, cannot yet fulfil its role of co-legislator.
Secondly, a whole raft of pieces of legislation has now been drafted concerning the equal treatment of men and women, the oldest dating back 25 years.
This summer, the Council adopted a directive to combat discrimination on the basis of race or ethnic origin.
This directive provides a higher level of protection, and is wider in scope, than both existing equal treatment legislation on men and women and the draft directive which we are discussing here today.
We in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs have always argued that this fragmented approach gives the wrong political signal, as if there might be some sort of hierarchy in discrimination.
As already stated, the level of protection concerning the fight against sex discrimination should also be brought into line with the highest standard.
The existing set of directives concerning sex discrimination pertains to labour, remuneration and social security, whilst the current measures against discrimination on the other grounds specified in Article 13 apply to a much narrower area.
I am delighted that the Commission pledged its willingness this summer to compile a draft directive also to combat sex discrimination outside the employment sphere, but I cannot understand why such an announcement for the other grounds of discrimination has not yet been forthcoming.
This principle, as well as the prohibition of all types of discrimination, have also been included in the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The programme, despite being modest financially, can play a significant role in strengthening the mechanisms for combating discrimination and will achieve its aims if there is coordination, at both a Community level and within the Member States, with other programmes and initiatives in the same field.
It is the Member States who are most directly responsible for the eradication of discriminatory practices and it is therefore essential that we incorporate all our accumulated experience and acquis in this field, and that this Parliament ensures that it is effectively monitored.
We must support the social partners, the NGOs and other institutions which are pursuing the same objective, and we must also demand rigour in the selection of the actions and organisations which we are to support financially.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the budgetary pressures that exist within category 3 expenditure, which includes this and other programmes.
Although the present legal basis releases appropriations for new preparatory actions, their funding within this category could lead to a reduction in appropriations for other policies.
The fight against discrimination is something which concerns us all.
In my view, this programme operates within a very general scope.
With regard to the proposal for a directive, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr Thomas Mann on the excellent work he has done.
The common objective of eradicating discrimination in the field of employment can and must be pursued from many angles, but it is clear that the role to be played makes it essential to establish a minimal legal framework which must be consistent with all the measures to combat discrimination and, in particular, with the directive on race.
The Member States already have a legal framework, both in the constitutional field and in ordinary legislation, and experience of the measures adopted in the fight against discrimination, which must be taken into account.
Therefore, the concepts of framework directive and minimal directive are the key to interpreting the present proposal for a directive.
The system of penalties laid down in the directive must guarantee that it acts as a deterrent and that it is effective in the eradication of discriminatory practices.
However, as well as the penalties, the declaration of invalidity of activities is also important in the case of serious violations of the principles laid down in the directive.
The exception of a difference in treatment which may be made on ideological or religious grounds or for reasons of age must bring together the law which protects certain public and private organisations with scrupulous respect for the principle of equal treatment.
The fight against discrimination will be a long one and we must therefore be attentive to the results of the measures we are debating today.
This package of legislation will open a new and radical chapter in the EU's history of commitment to securing equal opportunities and combating the modern scourge of discrimination.
This Parliament will send a clear message in our vote to all our citizens that we intend to improve Member States' record in ensuring respect for equal treatment, irrespective of age, race, disability and sexual orientation.
UK employment legislation will now have to be reviewed to ensure that ability, not age, determines who gets the job.
This legislation will encourage employers to seek to use the talents, the ability, the experience of all people in our society.
It is the biggest overhaul of discriminatory legislation that we will ever see in Europe and back in our own Member States.
But the kind of legislation we are looking at today will have a big impact on peoples' lives and make people understand that here in Strasbourg and Brussels we do things that make a difference.
Similarly they took on board our comments on the involvement of NGOs.
I do not consider that the main aim of European programmes is to support these organisations, but without them it would be very difficult for us to hear the voices of those target groups.
Finally, there are those in this House - I have heard them in my committee and elsewhere - who argue that we do not need this kind of legislation, it is too burdensome, it is a lawyers' charter.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Commission on the initiative to develop Article 13 of the Treaty further.
After so many years of talk, we finally have an initiative to tackle discrimination in different areas more effectively.
Discrimination can have different consequences for men and women.
I should like to highlight the importance of a person in whom employees can confide within an organisation and the importance of an independent body to which people and organisations can turn in the event of complaints concerning discrimination and intimidation.
It is a compromise, but one which enjoys wide support within Parliament.
Mr President, no sensible person can think that the European Parliament does not have to concern itself with discrimination, even if, in the case in point, it is a matter of rewriting and expressing our opinion on a report proposing a decision for the Council of Ministers which will do whatever it wants to anyway.
In committee, I have had occasion to make a stand against the fact that there may also be experts outside NGOs that have something to say.
Finally, this Community policy, Article 13, does not lead to a situation where the solution lies necessarily in more money.
Finally, we in the PPE-DE Group place great hope in the policy of assessment and coordination, and one of our proposals is that the fight against discrimination should give rise to a specific report to be presented before Parliament, which will account for the money and the use of the Community money which has been invested.
Finally, and this is my concluding remark, the definition of the causes which has been given and, indeed, adopted in the Charter which we shall have to adopt in November, is an acceptable one, making it possible to resolve a great many tensions within the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if tomorrow, the entire House adopts the viewpoints held by the competent committees with regard to the directive, I am convinced that the new directive on equal treatment in the workplace will be an excellent directive, which will have an enormous impact on the elderly, the disabled, homosexuals and lesbians in their battle against discrimination in the workplace.
My group therefore lends its unqualified support to the report and we would particularly like to thank the co-rapporteurs, Mr Thomas Mann and Mrs Joke Swiebel for their sterling work and also congratulate them on the excellent cooperation within the respective committees.
I would, in fact, like to seize the opportunity also to congratulate Mr Cashman, because although directives are important, action programmes are, of course, essential too in terms of the support they lend to directives.
Parliament rightly chose to play the trump cards which we already have in the form of existing directives on equal treatment, those on gender and those on race and ethnic origin, and I am particularly pleased with the sound descriptions of indirect discrimination, positive action and the principle of shared burden of proof.
We were also right to decide against including sex discrimination in this directive because there is already a separate European directive on sex discrimination, which will, in fact, be revised further to the Commission proposals and which is founded on a much stronger legal basis, about which Parliament, in fact, may decide in codecision.
What is important, however, is that the European Parliament should advocate that double discrimination, which often victimises older women and disabled women, should be tackled here.
Thirdly, my group applauds the decision to delete the non-exhaustive list of so-called justifications of differences of treatment on the grounds of age.
We are also delighted with the provision in the directive which stipulates that equal treatment for the disabled also means that companies are expected to make the necessary adjustments within the workplace.
Finally, Commissioner, I would like to say how excellent this work is.
Let us hope - and I am relying on you, Commissioner - that the European Commission will now come forward with proposals, pursuant to Article 13, to fight discrimination on grounds other than those to be found in the workplace.
Mr President, the excellent work of both rapporteurs completes a remarkable series of reports by this Parliament on the implementation of Article 13.
This first year of the 21st century has shown the EU institutions determined to entrench non-discrimination as a basic European value and fundamental human right.
The right of all human beings to equality before the law and protection against discrimination is a basic right.
The Community must supplement them with political and practical programmes that can actually be implemented.
Therefore, we are providing funds for Turkey to use as it likes without any obligation to eliminate the worst form of discrimination, which is a combination of all forms of discrimination in that, if there is discrimination against Kurds in general now, discrimination against Kurdish women, people of Kurdish origin with deviant sexual tendencies and disabled people of Kurdish origin will soon follow.
I would like to remind you that the first action of the members of the Bonino List this parliamentary term was to promote a proposal for a resolution on the fight against discrimination based on sex.
Mr President, this afternoon, we are discussing two of the three Commission proposals in which anti-discrimination legislation on the basis of Article 13 of the EC Treaty is proposed.
It appears to be putting more distance between beliefs and practical attitude to life and, as a result, institutions are even further restricted in living out and maintaining their own identities.
Absolute freedom of religion is impossible, as is absolute equality.
Discrimination in the sense of treating people as inferior, taunting them and putting them at a disadvantage is an evil that must be eradicated.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all glad that there is an Article 13 in the Treaty of Amsterdam because it finally puts an instrument in our hands and gives us the task of creating a comprehensive programme to combat discrimination.
The Commission has submitted an Action Plan until the year 2006.
I do, however, have problems with Mr Cashman' s report, which is peppered with 17 proposed amendments.
My second point is the problem that NGOs, important as they may be, are being asked to be involved in implementing the programme regardless of their size, nature and activities.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week is an important week as far as the debates in this House are concerned.
We are thereby boosting the positions of the European Union regarding the practical situations experienced by European nationals in connection with discrimination and equal treatment.
In this regard, I cannot accept the muddle that some parties are making of the necessary anti-discrimination measures, equal treatment and the mention of other cases of prohibition.
The proposal for a directive discussed in the Mann report is a key one, and I should like to discuss it briefly.
I should like to express our reservations on this difficult issue and restate our commitment to the principle of secularism, especially in the context of the fight against discrimination.
One last word on the discussion which may ensue on the need to maintain statistics on the subject.
Mr President, Commissioner, our group has evaluated both reports with positive results and would, in particular, like to emphasise the fact that we have all focused on the need to expand the programme's scope with a series of amendments - which, in actual fact, have led to another survey on discrimination - intended to guarantee equal treatment to all people, irrespective of their sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, personal convictions, age or sexual orientation.
Yet we were even more impressed by fact that, at the end of the report, provision was made for an evaluation of the outcome of the processes and programmes, for this is also a guarantee of fairness, impartiality and transparency.
I feel that this is a highly positive and constructive process, considering, also, that the results can be made available to the public and used to improve the quality of subsequent actions.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and those working on the equivalent opinions on their commitment to this work and their willingness to cooperate with all of us in this House who wish to see progress in combating discrimination.
The importance people attach to this has been reflected in the fact that I have received more lobbying on this directive than on any other so far in this session and from a wider range of people.
The aim of this work, based on Article 13, is to make equality of opportunity a reality by removing that smiling face that so often cloaks prejudice and bigotry, predominantly in the workplace.
Employers will now have to be clear and transparent in all aspects of their employment policy and practice and able to justify the choices they make on the basis of the real job requirements.
My group welcomes both the framework directive and the proposed Community action programme and sees them as an important step towards tackling prejudice in other aspects of people's lives.
For that reason we shall be supporting Amendment No 18 to the Mann report which calls for Member States to repeal all penal code provisions discriminating against homosexuals.
Or, does it mean, as I would hope, that we should learn the lessons from the Clinton experience and all behave appropriately in the workplace, whatever our sexual orientation.
In dealing with religion, my group welcomes Amendment No 37 to the Mann report.
It is important that, while we recognise the desire of organisations based on a particular religion or belief to employ people who share their views, it is also right that this desire should not become a reason to deny employment to people who are perfectly qualified to carry out a job which is not directly connected to that belief and who conduct themselves appropriately while at work.
Age discrimination is also rife and no voluntary code can really combat gratuitous discrimination.
Yesterday, for example, the Charter of Fundamental Rights condemned discrimination, not just racial discrimination but even, according to the Charter, discrimination on the basis of birth.
In affirming the principle of equality, all the constitutions of the world virtually establish a principle of constitutional jus cogens, since discrimination is prohibited everywhere.
On the other hand, however, for forty years there have been texts in existence which are actually based on discrimination.
In Geneva in 1963, the first of these, UNCTAD, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, established the principle of compensatory inequalities or, in other words, discrimination.
Our own Lomé Convention itself is based on discrimination in favour of the Caribbean and Pacific States.
Our entire dispute with the United States, moreover, has arisen because we wanted positive discrimination in favour of our own ACP banana producers whereas the United States wanted an egalitarian system which would serve the interests of multinationals.
Europe itself, with the GSP, the System of Generalised Preferences, which leads us unilaterally to give up our customs duties to the benefit of a whole series of States, is based on discrimination.
And the national laws in our 15 countries also practice discrimination, including the Socialist France of the Socialist Mr Jospin.
Not everyone in the Olympic Games gets through to the final.
So, in sociological terms, there is the risk of abuse.
The principle of non-discrimination is a fine one, Mr President, but it also has a flip side.
In general terms, I agree with the emphasis placed on the development and growth of cultural tools to fight discrimination: in my opinion, we must combat discrimination with a culture of non-discrimination, making up-to-the-minute, accessible information available to all the citizens of all the Member States.
In fact, information and awareness campaigns are vital in this area: they must act as hammers to forge new mentalities and bring about a new way of thinking and behaving, in order to drive out those prejudices which are still widespread and to ensure equal rights for all citizens.
Mr President, the proposal for a Council directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation extends the ban on discrimination beyond reasons of race or ethnic origin to other reasons which are used as a motivation for discrimination and which are mentioned in Article 13.
This means harmonising the acquired rights in a positive way in order to protect the weakest and most oppressed on the labour market and not, for example, in the name of equality, authorising night work for women.
It will also contribute to enhancing the image of Europe in the eyes of the rest of the world, which is watching us especially closely, by actively demonstrating that Europe is continuing to work hard to protect human rights and to promote solidarity and democracy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, many forms of discrimination still remain in the European Union, specifically in employment and professional activities, even though they are prohibited under Article 13 of the EU Treaty.
It is therefore important to press forward with the two legislative initiatives that are now being debated, while improving them in certain respects and increasing the funds set aside for financing the programme, thus reflecting the political importance of this fight against discrimination.
So those who claim here that Europe does not need to lay down in a directive the values which we all aim to defend are mistaken.
I welcome this directive as the first-ever EU law introducing Europe-wide rights for our 37 million disabled citizens, an end to the back-door route to legislate for disability rights and a tribute to the disability movement which has campaigned for this day.
In particular the agreement of the principle of reasonable accommodation, pioneered in Sweden and Ireland, will now ensure that employers across Europe adapt their workplaces, acquire specialist equipment and amend their working practices so that disabled employees really do get a fair chance.
Mr President, if one thing singles out European society from the other societies of the world, it is precisely its sensitivity and commitment to the fight for freedom and human rights.
However, I would like to say that this fight is not the exclusive property of the left.
Article 13 is the starting point for a new EU objective: to combat discrimination or inequality in the treatment of citizens for the reasons listed therein.
The action programme seems to me to be a serious programme.
I therefore consider that it is necessary to commit the public and private sectors to this task and, to this end, I believe that the public sector must provide an example.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task.
It is incredibly important that we should now secure implementation of the package which is the first and interim realisation of Article 13 of the EC Treaty.
In that way, we should be taking an important step towards removing discrimination against minorities in the EU and the applicant countries.
This fight against discrimination is a fight that mobilises us all and it cannot be an exclusive banner for any political group in this Parliament.
Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam threw up a challenge for the European Union agenda, which gave the Community specific powers to initiate a variety of actions to combat discrimination, so as to ensure the same level of protection for all disadvantaged groups.
I should like to congratulate the Commission on the important step it has taken in initiating this process of implementing Article 13 through the package of proposals that it has presented to combat discrimination.
Experience has also shown us that the promotion of anti-discrimination legislation is essential but it is not enough.
I should also like to stress the importance of involving the countries applying for membership as much as we can in these Community actions to combat discrimination.
Given the large number of discriminatory actions, decisions and attitudes which still appear today in Europe, I am pleased with these reports which we are debating today and which contain certain points which I feel to be particularly noteworthy.
Firstly, we must insist on the need to bear in mind, when implementing the concrete actions of this programme, Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which is the pivotal instrument in the fight against discrimination in the European Union.
Secondly, we must highlight the particular discrimination suffered by certain social groups, women, the disabled, immigrants, homosexual men and women, the elderly and ethnic minorities and, within these groups, we must insist on the importance of monitoring and implementing concrete measures in the fight against cases of multiple or double discrimination, which occur especially in the case of women.
We therefore have to stress the need to integrate the gender element into all areas of the fight against discrimination and, in parallel, I wish to ask the Commission to make a clear and decisive effort to achieve coherence between the directives, recommendations and programmes against discrimination, giving this House a leading role in the establishment of priorities, the carrying out of an assessment of the effectiveness of the actions proposed today in this programme and the revision, if necessary, of the actions and decisions taken within this action programme.
Lastly, the European Parliament must be kept informed, taking account of the reports and opinions produced by this House, and we must highlight the importance and necessity of truly making use of the opinion and participation of the NGOs and associations - and providing them with the necessary resources - since they are without doubt the key to the success of the measures adopted.
Mr President, discrimination on religious grounds is as unacceptable as any other form of discrimination.
A spiritual dimension is vital to Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the discussions regarding the Treaty of Amsterdam, we were delighted, myself in particular, at the inclusion of Article 13 on discrimination on the basis of sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or philosophical convictions - non sectarian, I might add - handicap in any form, age or sexual orientation.
These proposals involve two draft directives and one action programme intended to support the efforts of the Member States.
It is extremely difficult, of course, both for me and for my fellow Members, to give a precise opinion on measures of such great significance in just two minutes.
As regards the Mann report on equal treatment in employment, and let me congratulate the rapporteur, I shall confine myself to pointing out that I am, personally, satisfied that it has been possible to reduce the number of permissible exemptions to a minimum.
Mr President, the right to equal treatment and protection against discrimination is one of the fundamental human rights.
I am aware that there are also arguments in favour of guaranteeing European legislation for equal treatment within one market.
Mr President, the draft Council decision establishing a Community action programme to combat discrimination initiates the process of implementing Article 13.
The family, for instance, remains a foundation and a pillar of our society.
Among the most severely disabled, unemployment stood at 70 per cent.
This type of legislation is therefore needed, and often it is only minor measures that are required.
The debate in Parliament was extremely interesting, and you have already highlighted the political importance of this directive.
I would also like to thank the committees involved for their support and cooperation in getting a coordinated view in such a short time.
It is important that the Community action programme is adopted by the Council this autumn so that we can avoid a gap between it and the preparatory actions which we are currently running.
Prevention is the key to a long-term strategy.
I am aware of the difficulties and of the complication of the forms of these projects and I will try to simplify them.
I can also agree to highlight in future the importance of NGOs, both as partners and as target actors participating in the actions themselves.
It will be important to involve as wide a range of types and sizes of NGOs as possible to make sure that we benefit from the experience of these people who work every day with these issues.
I can accept your proposals to write into the body of the decision the limit of 90% for the co-funding of such NGOs, and we can justify this proposal because there are many particularities in these NGOs.
In short, therefore, I can accept either as drafted or in spirit Amendments Nos 1, 2, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 18, 21, 41 to 45, 47, 50, 58, 59, 62, 64, 65, 66 and 67.
I can also accept parts of Amendments Nos 3, 14, 16, 31, 33, 35, 38, 40, 55 and 57.
Others risk creating an imbalance in programmes by an over-concentration on a particular aspect; others again are not necessary to achieve Parliament's objective, as the ideas are either implicitly or explicitly already included in the decision, such as those on drawing on the experience of third countries.
The first one concerns disability, religion and age.
As far as the first category is concerned, disability, religion and age, the specific problems facing disabled people are acknowledged in the current draft where the provision to reasonably accommodate the workplace to the needs of disabled people is specifically foreseen.
This is a key provision for achieving equal treatment for people with disabilities.
Your proposal is very useful, as discussions in the different institutions have shown that these terms were not fully understood.
Now it has become clear that a number of factors such as the cost involved, the financial resources of the organisations and the possibility of obtaining public funds will determine if their accommodation would impose a considerable burden on the employer.
Another key issue concerns religious organisations and the possibility of using the genuine occupation requirement clause in Article 4(2).
I welcome your reference to this question in Amendment No 37.
I can also agree to the idea of extending the wording of Article 4(2) to include organisations providing services in a religious environment, as we realise that the wording of the Commission's proposal was very rigid.
The Commission's intention is to create workable rules for companies while at the same time prohibiting instances of discrimination which are arbitrary and not objectively justified.
However, I understand that this is a very sensitive issue.
The Commission is ready to simplify the wording of Article 5 for better understanding of this provision.
Regarding the second category of amendments, it aims to clarify the text of the Commission's proposal.
In particular, Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 20 propose the removal of the reference to discrimination based on racial and ethnic origin.
These references are contained in Amendments Nos 7, 8, 9, 12, 34 and 47.
The Commission can accept the spirit of all these amendments.
I would like to refer in detail to those amendments which I cannot accept because they present political or legal difficulties.
This kind of provision is not appropriate in a directive on a framework proposal.
We all know that this is very important, but I must stress that in some Member States the collection of this kind of data infringes constitutional provisions on the protection of privacy.
I cannot accept your references in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons and non-formalised groups of persons, as this employment proposal only applies to individuals.
You propose in Amendment No 52, by analogy with the directive on racial discrimination, to incorporate a provision on independent bodies to monitor compliance with the provision of the directive.
I also have difficulties with Amendments Nos 19 and 35, in which you propose a time-frame of three years in order to equalise the scope of the discrimination legislation for all the grounds referred to in Article 3.
It is impossible to refer to this time-frame in a directive, but the implementation of the action plan will help us to see how we can move forward with the other amendments.
To summarise, I can accept, either as drafted or in spirit, Amendments Nos 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 23, 24, 26, 30, 34, 40, 49, 50, 51 and 54 and also parts of Amendments Nos 7, 9, 13, 20, 25, 29, 36, 37, 41, 42, 46, 47, 48, 58, 59, 60 and 61.
This very large number of accepted amendments proves the excellent cooperation between the Commission and Parliament.
In conclusion, some Members of Parliament referred to the need for cooperation about, or the implementation of, directives like these in the applicant countries.
This directive must be part of the social acquis in the applicant countries.
It is the first time that we allow joint projects in this action programme.
Applicant countries can cooperate with the Member States and submit joint projects and joint proposals and this is very important for them and for us also.
Some of the Members have referred to the particular problems that Turkey has with the Kurdish language and the problems in Turkey.
I consider that the Community could support and select any kind of project that the Turkish Government submitted in the framework of this action plan.
I had to reply to more than 50 different points and amendments and I am very optimistic that these amendments will be adopted during the French presidency.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
Yet we have a code, thanks largely to the initiative of the British Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, proof once again that where Parliament leads today, the Council will eventually follow.
Yet it is clear from the annual report that it has worked better than all expectations, including those of the Member State governments who approached this project with great suspicion.
The code of conduct has led to greater mutual understanding, greater transparency and a greater convergence of Member States' policies.
Effective and coherent EU policy on arms exports is essential if the EU is to pursue its external objectives, particularly given that we have so many areas of instability on our borders.
You cannot seriously pursue conflict prevention and peacemaking without controlling arms exports, particularly small arms.
The Council annual report itself identified the need for a common list of military equipment to be established.
The code, however, is only a political commitment between Member States.
Article 7 of the code commits Member States to prevent exports being diverted to undesirable end users.
They should be better coordinated and more effective.
It is clear that many weapons find themselves in the wrong hands because of the activity of arms brokers.
I was stunned recently to discover that there are up to 300 arms brokers in the south-east of England alone.
Lastly, the greatest safeguard against abuse of arms exports is transparency.
The annual report is a large step forward but its transparency depends on the transparency of the national reports which it is created from.
Since 1997 my own government has published annual reports on arms exports which have been praised for their transparency.
I still feel that this must be our approach, that we must not give in before the inevitability of war and conflict and that the defence policy must not provide for large-scale arms production, but that Europe must adopt an defence policy of intervention where it is not weapons that count but the ability to intervene peacefully in order to find non-violent solutions to disputes.
Mr President, Commissioner, in taking the floor on the extremely difficult subject of arms sales, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the manner in which he has managed to clarify matters for Parliament in the outstanding and comprehensive explanatory statement in the motion for a resolution which is being discussed today and which will be voted on tomorrow in this House.
This statement focuses on the fear shared by the majority of our fellow Members, that arms of all kinds manufactured by the European Union may, if exports are not effectively controlled, be used by countries or armed groups that do not respect international law or human dignity.
Since this dream, as you rightly termed it, Mrs Morgantini, still remains today in the realms of utopia, as I fear it will for a long time to come, we should, as proposed, highlight instead the positive results that have already been obtained by applying the code of conduct and propose all the measures that are desirable and applicable in order to improve the efficiency of this method.
The PSE Group sees this as a good start but a code is no law.
We continue to strive for legislation which is more binding and more up to date, in view of the developments within the arms market and in the arms industry.
Having said this, I would naturally like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Titley on his excellent report.
This requires more cooperation in the field of arms production and arms export.
We feel we should continue to work on this code and ensure that it can lead to a common arms export policy in due course.
The proliferation of light weapons remains disconcerting, even close to home, in the Balkans, for example.
In a sense, these arms have come to symbolise anarchy in many areas worldwide.
It is only by complementary action such as this that we can move towards a more sustainable security in Europe and the world, one that is founded on disarmament and stability.
Sweden participates actively, too actively I am inclined to say, in the development of a common weapons policy, but that is something different.
Unfortunately, practice has shown that these are often countries which should not be supplied with arms in the interests of conflict prevention.
Think of the warring parties in Congo and countries in the Middle East.
A useful addition to Mr Titley' s practical proposals could perhaps be the introduction of a licensing system to finance the trade in weapons used in war, as well as to settle arms deals.
Monitoring the money circuit is bound to make it more difficult to avoid arms trade regulations.
Indeed, as ESDP becomes operational, issues such as arms exports must be seen as forming part of a comprehensive approach.
Our aim must be coherence and that I take to be a very important underlying message in the report.
The EU code of conduct establishes a set of detailed principles governing conventional arms exports.
These aim at preventing the export of weapons to governments which abuse human rights, to areas of conflict or to regions engaged in arms races.
It is clear that the ultimate responsibility for arms exports belongs to national governments.
The code has been in existence for one year and, as acknowledged in the first annual report, Member States' initial experiences of its operation during this period were positive.
A few weeks after the adoption of the code, the associated countries of Central and Eastern Europe and Cyprus plus Iceland and Norway issued a declaration aligning themselves with the criteria and principles in the code.
Since then many of those countries have made considerable efforts to comply with the code.
The European Union is committed to combating the destabilising accumulation of small arms in many parts of the world.
The Commission, in close collaboration with the Member States, was actively involved in the drafting of the European Union joint action on small arms and light weapons.
We fully intend to strengthen policy in this area as part of a coherent approach.
We are committed to providing financial and technical assistance to countries, international organisations, regional arrangements and NGOs, as proposed by the joint action.
Under the EU project in Cambodia, technical, administrative and financial support is provided to the government and to selected NGOs for actions aimed at promoting the control, collection and destruction of weapons.
The European Union is currently considering the continuation of the project beyond its expiry date in November of this year.
These could result in politically or legally binding instruments and a comprehensive international programme of action for the small arms problem.
The point I believe is to see our efforts in this regard as part of a comprehensive approach to arms policy in general and as part of the overall endeavour to make ESDP coherent.
It proposes guidelines for future Union research activities, for the period 2002-2006, and more especially for the Union's future Research Framework Programme.
The aim is to define the specific contribution that this will make to the creation of a European Research Area.
The initial results will be presented to the European Council meeting scheduled for next March, which aims to address general economic and social issues.
But it is clear that the Union's Research Framework Programme also has a more specific role to play.
The guidelines set out in the Communication adopted this morning have been defined with this in mind, on the basis, in particular, of the conclusions of the report on the five-year assessment of research programmes, drawn up by a panel of independent experts, and the mid-term review of the Fifth Research Framework Programme, carried out by the Commission.
A real concentration of efforts in areas where action at Community level will generate a plus: that of European added value.
The introduction of types of intervention of longer duration; half-way houses between support for projects and institutional financing, the use of the variable geometry instruments available under the Treaty, and, more specifically, European Union participation in national programmes, as provided for in Article 169 of the Treaty.
In tangible terms, there is, among other things, a proposal to have recourse to formulae such as the networking of national programmes through support for the mutual opening-up of programmes and, above all, European Union participation in programmes carried out in a coordinated fashion; the creation of European networks of excellence by networking existing capacities in the Member States around joint programmes of activities; the carrying out of large targeted research projects conducted by consortia of companies, universities and research centres, on the basis of overall financing plans; greater backing for regional and national efforts in support of innovation and research conducted by small- and medium-sized companies; reinforcing and diversifying action in support of research infrastructures of European interest; the increasing and diversification of mobility grants and, in general terms, measures in the field of human resources.
These new methods of intervention are the result of new methods of management.
The guideline document adopted today is designed to trigger debate immediately, beginning with debate within the institutions.
On the basis of the outcome of this debate, the Commission will present its formal proposals for the Research Framework Programme for 2002-2006, next February.
These proposals will become part of a series of specific Communications, each of which represents a contribution to the establishment of a European Research Area.
This is the discussion on criteria that we will be having with the Member States, of course, and also with Parliament.
It has an important role to play.
You are well aware of the need to centre the actions of the Joint Research Centre on areas in which it can fulfil this role of European added value, by virtue of the fact that it does not depend on the private sector and is independent of the Member States.
This is a very striking example of what we have achieved in this area.
With regard to the actions that we propose, page 16 of the policy paper sets out the new ways in which we are thinking of working, with greater decentralisation towards associations and towards national structures.
The Mobility group has been set up at Commission level, with the various Member States, and is to hold its first meeting on 20 October.
This group consists of the representatives of Research Ministers, but also actual Ministers for Social Affairs and Home Affairs, to overcome obstacles to mobility, such as problems concerning pensions and freedom of movement on European territory.
In a resolution quoted by yourself, which was adopted in this Parliament on 18 May and for which I was rapporteur, I recommended multi-disciplinary teams for research, since innovations often occur on the cutting edge of different disciplines.
I would also like to ask you to award particular attention to the relations between the STOA Unit and matters that concern your Directorate for which you have responsibility, because problems exist in this regard.
I feel that what is currently required is something that structures the European Research Area, which is to say something that goes beyond the framework programme and supplements national programmes; we need a structuring element, which means that we have to agree on certain rules.
Yes, with an opening-up of the national programmes of several Member States onto an area with European added value, the Commission and the Union can intervene.
But they must intervene by applying criteria that facilitate access which is as broad as possible for all the elements of the European Union, which is to say for all the Member States, and even for third countries too.
We have never made use of Article 169 of the Treaty; this Article could be used to harness more frequently and more cohesively the activities of the various Member States.
The third paragraph of page 9 of the document reads as follows: "need to combine complementary expertise in the different countries, particularly in the case of interdisciplinary issues, and to carry out comparative studies on a European scale" .
In many fields, it is immediately apparent that certain basic research elements are, in fact, applied research elements.
The current framework programmes are therefore a mixture of basic research issues and applied research issues.
As concerns discussions with the STOA Unit, I feel that we have to act together, since this is something that concerns this House, the Joint Research Centre and the technological foresight institutes in the various Member States.
I would therefore welcome any form of debate or discussion on this issue.
As concerns the Euro-Mediterranean context more specifically, I believe that you too will have noted the interest shown by the countries on both sides of the Mediterranean in conducting joint research and technological development activities.
I, for my part, believe that these are key factors for increasing understanding among researchers and their mobility around the Mediterranean basin.
In any case, these were the conclusions that the Ministers for Research and Science reached on this subject at Capri last weekend.
You will have three examples of this in the policy paper, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this matter again soon.
If I am unable to give you an immediate reply on this today, it is because it was precisely my intention, in this policy paper, to invite the Member States to adopt a position, for there will never be a European Research Area if it stems solely from the will of the Commission.
The Commission and the framework programme only account for 5% of research-related public expenditure.
There can therefore be no talk of a European Research Area if we are only responsible for 5% of that research.
We are going to draft a Communication on this subject.
I indeed feel that, in Europe, research and development must be conducted with the citizens.
There is a whole series of avenues that must be explored in the field of social and economic research, in the fields of foodstuffs, new technologies and, in particular, biotechnologies.
In any case, the type of research that could be labelled 'disinterested' , which is to say research that has no commercial goal, is often the type of research that produces the best results in economic and basic terms.
Your question is very relevant, but we will have to wait to see what happens in practice.
Much targeted research has a highly prominent commercial aspect, but there are also more basic forms of research which serve general European Union policies and, at times, also have beneficial spin-offs for commercial interests.
This is therefore a bottom-up operation to be carried out not with hyper-centres, but with different teams working as part of a network.
Thank you very much, Mr Busquin.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0540/2000).
Given that the amendments to the rules governing this Fund have been extremely limited in scope (unlike those affecting the Structural Funds), how can the Commission justify the fact that the rate of implementation for the first half of 2000 is lower than 1%?
In the case of Portugal, Mrs Torres Marques, but above all in the case of Greece, the number of projects received does not give me the same cause to hope for a satisfactory implementation of appropriations.
It is my responsibility to manage as rigorously and as actively as possible the European Union' s second largest budget, that for Regional Policy and the Cohesion Fund.
On the one hand, as a result of the efforts made to commit all the appropriations at the end of 1999, there was inevitably a very sharp drop in applications for the financing of new projects at the beginning of this financial year.
On the other hand, as this is the first year of the new programming period, I have to say, and this is an objective assessment, that the Cohesion Fund countries, including your own, have centred their efforts on Objective 1 programming.
Otherwise, there will be a risk of certain Cohesion Fund appropriations made for the financial year 2000 being lost for ever.
You know that this fund has always been very well managed by the four countries and has always had 100% take-up rates.
Now, I also have some concerns in this area, some of which concern Objective 2, Objective 1 and Cohesion Fund appropriations that date some way back.
I am simply observing, and I have given you the figures as at 26 September, that the appropriations actually committed by Portugal, for the new period - I have only been a member of the Commission for a year - stand at 2.6%.
We will validate the technical content of these projects as swiftly as possible so that your country, like the other Cohesion Fund countries, is not made to suffer and is able to benefit from all the appropriations in question.
I provided all this information to the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism on 11 September, but, if you really wanted, I could arrange for this information to be transmitted to you this evening or tomorrow, in the form that it was submitted, in all transparency, to the competent Committee on 11 September, under a month ago, for all the countries concerned.
Because, once again, the General Regulation treats the Structural Funds (Objectives 1 and 2) and the Cohesion Fund differently, and because, if I were forced to, I could not enter into reprogramming in the case of the Cohesion Fund.
In overall terms we had, as at 26 September, committed 17.6% of the Cohesion Fund appropriations.
Question No 2 by (H-0730/00): Subject: Fuel duty The current level of fuel duty in the United Kingdom is very substantially in excess of that prevailing in any other Member State.
This has a severely distorting effect on competition as between small and medium-sized undertakings in these localities and multinational or other large-scale undertakings operating throughout the United Kingdom, as between tourist industries in these localities and hotel chains concentrated in large centres nearer to mainland Europe, such as London, and as between farmers and fishermen in remote parts and farmers and fishermen more advantageously located.
However, this proposal instead met with heavy protest from certain Member States.
In 1989, the Commission submitted a new proposal which was to offer more flexibility.
I would thus like to underline that the Community minimum rates have not been reviewed since 1992 and that today, in practice, duty levels often far exceed the Community minimum rates and also differ greatly from country to country.
As the honourable Member pointed out, the duty on fuel and diesel used as motor fuel which applies in the United Kingdom is the highest in Europe, but duties on fuel oil and kerosene, at least if - and insofar as - these are used for industrial and commercial purposes or even for heating, remain far below the highest values applicable within the Union, as is also the case with the duty on heavy fuel oil.
It is thus a mixed bag and it is not the case that all duties on mineral oils are higher in the United Kingdom than elsewhere in Europe.
For example, there is a company on the island of North Uist which is engaged in quarrying and road maintenance.
It is good for employment and for social cohesion.
Mr President, I would say to Mr MacCormick that the Commission has no means of influencing the level of excise taxes for mineral oil products in Member States.
I want to be clear and insist on this point, because, as I said in my answer in the first instance, the Commission has made several attempts to get Member States to agree to the harmonisation of excise taxes precisely to avoid distortions in trade which may arise as a result of the differences therein.
These derogations stem from Article 8(4) of Directive 92/81 of the European Union and are approximately 100 in number.
In the course of this examination, the Commission will also answer the question of whether such derogations are an infringement of the Treaty rules on state aid, because obviously a derogation may border upon fiscal state aid and if there is an overlap, there may be a case for the Commission to take action.
Excise duty is absolutely identical in all parts of the United Kingdom.
For example, nuclear energy is a very clear case in point.
Kyoto is important.
I should like to say to Mr Purvis that the matter of natural, regional disadvantages is probably a matter for the national governments since a part of their electorate lies in those outlying areas and peripheral regions.
Question No 3 by (H-0743/00): Subject: Budget line for minority languages The budget line of the European Union for minority languages was introduced in 1983 and increased steadily to reach a peak in 1995 with EUR 4 million.
This is all the more surprising in that the European Union is moving closer towards enlargement to the East and the question of minorities is becoming increasingly important as a result, particularly in the context of a proper exchange of information.
Furthermore, activities hitherto - for example, the creation of an online network for regional and minority languages, operated by the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and the three Mercator centres - have had a very positive response.
The Commission has not entered in the budget any specific appropriations for the financing of projects directly intended to promote regional or minority languages, for reasons that I will now attempt to explain.
The Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure specifies that appropriations relating to activities with no legal basis - as with the case in point - for projects concerning the promotion and safeguarding of regional and minority languages and cultures, may be entered in the budget for only three financial years at the most, and on condition that the establishment of a legal basis for them is subsequently envisaged.
For example, preparatory activities designed to encourage the use of digital content on worldwide networks in order to promote linguistic diversity in the information society - Culture 2000, MEDIA - insofar as the projects proposed contribute to the achievement of the objectives of these actions.
Christoph Pan entitled "Volksgruppen in Europa - Ein Handbuch" [Nations in Europe - a Handbook], which listed some 60 minority groups in the European Union, 300 in the continent of Europe.
Out of a total of 750 million inhabitants, 100 million belong to minority groups.
As the author is not present, Question No 4 lapses.
Question No 5 by (H-0762/00): Subject: Campaign against child sex tourism Since 1998 ECPAT Sweden has been running a project for a code of conduct for tour operators against child sex tourism with a view to persuading tour operators to undertake to eliminate demand for this type of tourism.
The Commission agrees on the importance of the fight against child sex tourism.
The Commission will pursue its actions to protect human dignity by preventing and combating violence against children, including child sex tourism, in the field of cooperation in justice and home affairs.
In the past the Commission's executive tasks have increased while its political and legislative work has decreased in relative terms.
In particular activities financed by small budget lines will be reduced because they are very intensive in terms of human resources.
The sex tourism information and awareness campaigns have had an important role to play.
Discontinuing support for the information campaign does not, however, mean that the Commission will abandon its other activities to protect children against violence and abuse, notably the STOP programme.
The Commission is preparing a proposal to renew the programme later this year and child sex tourism will be one of its concerns.
The Commission is also preparing legislative proposals on the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council.
Nevertheless the Commission will, in close collaboration with the Member States, continue to play an active role in developing and maintaining a coherent European policy to protect children against violence.
Thirdly, each presidency must clearly have its own programme.
I hope that we can find a solution in conjunction with the WTO and in such a way that the three remaining months of this year may be sufficient for activating this budget line.
Indeed many SMEs are still not fully aware of the implications of the changeover for their businesses, particularly as regards the legal tax and accounting rules and their software.
The Commission and Member States are currently stepping up their efforts to provide information to remedy this situation.
Mr President, what interests me most is how the euro-debate will go on from here, after the referendum in Denmark, and what changes the Commission intends to make to the information strategy?
Mr President, very briefly, 11 countries have accepted the euro.
As the author is not present, Question No 7 lapses.
Question No 8 by (H-0724/00): Subject: Foodstuffs hygiene and hunting The Commission has recently submitted proposals concerning foodstuffs hygiene, COM(2000)438.
Mr President, the proposal on food hygiene referred to by the Member in question is a consolidation and simplification of the existing set of hygiene rules contained in 17 different directives.
These include Directive 92/45 of 16 June 1992 on public and animal health problems relating to the killing of wild game and the placing on the market of wild-game meat which already lays down a number of hygiene rules with respect to wild game.
With the new proposal, the existing food hygiene rules have been simplified.
Already at present there is an obligation in Finland to present moose that is shot and sold to restaurants for inspection by the competent authority and some Member States already apply the rules as proposed.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his answer, and I have a supplementary question.
The fact is that elk hunting is extremely widespread in Sweden and Finland.
Question No 9 by (H-0738/00): Subject: Live animal transports A new Commission report on a mission that it carried out in France in November 1999 and a recent investigation in Italy by Compassion in World Farming and Animal Angels, show that several Member States are still not properly enforcing Council Directive 91/628/EEC on the Protection of Animals During Transport (as amended by 95/29/EC).
I share the concern that has been expressed that rules on the transport of animals are not being sufficiently enforced in certain areas.
While Member States are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of Community legislation, the Food and Veterinary Office of my Directorate-General undertakes specific control and inspection missions to check that Member States apply Community legislation in an effective and uniform manner.
The competent authorities of the place of departure must check in particular that completed route plans have been returned and verify that the journeys have been carried out according to the plans.
The Commission is currently monitoring the situation in both cases.
If it appears that a Member State repeatedly fails to enforce Community legislation, the Commission would consider opening an infringement procedure under Article 226, as has already been initiated against other Member States in relation to the protection of animals during transport.
I will present a report on the implementation in the Member States of the Community legislation on the protection of animals during transport to the Council and to the European Parliament.
When this report has been concluded, I intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of insufficient enforcement of the travelling time limits will be addressed.
I want to ask in particular about the border post of Gorica between Slovenia and Italy.
As I indicated, the Commission is currently working on a report on the operation of an animal transport directive in the Member States.
Question No 10 by (H-0755/00): Subject: Adverse effects of imports of genetically modified seeds on cotton cultivation Imports of cotton seeds contaminated with small quantities of genetically modified seeds originating chiefly from the USA have caused serious problems for cotton growing in Greece and will have adverse long-term consequences.
These problems have arisen because the EU and the Greek government have deliberately neglected to set up the necessary Community or national legal framework to prevent imports of seeds and propagating material contaminated with genetically modified organisms from third countries.
Since the above omission has still not be rectified, despite the adverse consequences it has caused, will the Commission say what measures the EU intends to take to prevent imports of seeds and propagating material contaminated with genetically modified organisms in future ?
Under the current Council Directive 92/20 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, products containing or consisting of GMOs may not be placed on the market unless consent has been given under the provisions of this particular directive.
Although this is not yet reflected in the relevant Community seeds legislation, this principle would apply also to those seed lots of conventional plant varieties of the different genera and species, including cotton, which contain impurities of EU-unapproved genetically modified seeds.
The Commission White Paper on food safety has foreseen the need to amend the annexes of the existing directives on the marketing of seeds in order to first of all lay down the growing conditions and other requirements for purity concerning the adventitious presence of genetically modified seeds in seed lots of traditional plant varieties and secondly to lay down the details of the labelling requirements for seed of genetically modified plants.
The Commission services are currently preparing a draft Commission directive covering these issues and including cotton seed.
Under this plan the Member States would immediately organise testing of a significant number of seed lots of conventional varieties to determine the presence of GM seeds until the coming into force of related new Community legislative measures.
I am pleased to report the Standing Veterinary Committee responsible for seeds held a number of meetings in June, July and September on this particular issue with a view to reaching an interim agreement between Member States as to how to deal with this kind of situation, pending the enactment of the legislation that I referred to.
However, having consulted with his services, I am in a position to inform you that essential safety requirements concerning computer equipment to be used privately or in the working place are prescribed by a directive relating to electrical products, the Low Voltage Directive, as well as by the Directive on Radio Equipment and Telecommunication Terminals.
There are also some safety requirements for eye protection at work in the Directive on the Safety in the Workplace but none yet for private use.
The general product safety also puts an obligation on producers to provide consumers with information on risks.
For the more general question on the follow-up by Member States to the Council resolution on operating instructions for technical consumer goods, it should be noted that this resolution is addressed to Member States and to the economic operators and does not involve any specific follow-up by the Commission.
From a logical point of view I entirely agree.The difficulty in this issue is that the Commission and the European institutions have far greater powers in legislation governing the workplace than in, for instance, legislation governing private homes.
The answer to your question is that the Commission's powers do not extend that far.
Maryam Ayubi's case is extremely disturbing.
As the honourable Member knows, Iran's penal code is based on Islamic sharia law.
In February 2000, the European Union asked Iran to introduced a moratorium on the death penalty in the wake of death penalties handed down against four student leaders.
The Commission is very concerned at the poor human rights record in Iran in general.
The recent parliamentary election in Iran will we hope offer an opportunity to develop a more productive dialogue on human rights with the Iranian government.
In doing this we will regularly review the progress of reform in Iran including in the field of human rights.
Consultations are continuing to determine the European Union's position which will of course reflect our deep concerns regarding the situation in Iran.
If Maryam did not live in a theocratic regime she would be free, she could enjoy the right to life, but as she lives in Iran, she will be stoned to death.
We should do that bilaterally with the Iranian government and, where appropriate, in international fora and we should certainly give every encouragement to those more moderate elements in countries like Iran who believe, as the honourable Member and I do, that human rights are universally valid and not some colonial implant.
Question No 14 by (H-0745/00): Subject: Burma Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader and Nobel Prize winner, has ended up under what amounts to house arrest, and all contact with outsiders has been forbidden by the country' s military rulers.
I join with the honourable Member in expressing my admiration of Aung San Suu Kyi and her fellow members of the NLD.
Today Aung San Suu Kyi is now under de facto house arrest.
I am particularly concerned by reports that party members, waiting with Aung San Suu Kyi at Rangoon station two weeks ago, were attacked and even chloroformed before being evicted from the station premises.
The Commission remains convinced that a lasting solution to the current situation must be based on agreement between the regime, the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities.
Aung San Suu Kyi has long pressed for such a dialogue.
The EU's attitude towards that ministerial meeting in Vientiane and indeed, whether it should take place at all, or at what level the EU should be represented at it, will depend on developments in Burma between now and December.
We will be watching developments closely but we should also be clear that the December meeting is about the EU's political relations with ASEAN as a whole.
We are determined not to let the behaviour of the regime in Rangoon prevent us from developing our relations with the other nine members of ASEAN.
If the European Union is not prepared to call for economic sanctions then why not, for instance, suggest that the SPDC should be challenged in the UN and its legitimacy as the Government of Burma challenged in the UN General Assembly?
As the honourable Member knows, we have taken a number of tough measures in relation to the regime covering issues like visas and assets.
Speaking for myself, though I have always wanted to go to Burma and particularly to see Bagan, I would not dream of going to Burma in the present circumstances and I would advise other people similarly.
When it comes to the overall question of trade and investment, I will be absolutely candid with the honourable Member about my assessment and about my concern.
My assessment is that the main reason why there is not more investment in Burma is the policies pursued by the regime there.
One last point.
I think it is very important that the ASEAN countries themselves put pressure on Burma.
There are many living in wretched conditions outside the country in refugee camps and others living in wretched conditions within the country.
Question No 15 by (H-0769/00): Subject: Democracy in Kosovo What is the Commission' s view of the local elections in Kosovo and the development of the various democratic forces in the run-up to them, and what are the region' s medium- and long-term political prospects?
Mr President, the Commission fully supports the decision of the UN Secretary General's special representative for Kosovo, Bernard Kouchner, to hold the Kosovo municipal elections on 28 October and the efforts of the UN mission in Kosovo, UNMIK, to organise these elections.
Within the UN mission, OSCE Pillar III of UNMIK has lead responsibility for the elections.
EU Member States provide the bulk of the OSCE budget, and the European Commission has also provided EUR 5 million for equipment for the registration process.
The European Commission has full confidence in the ability of UNMIK to implement the results of the municipal elections in the short and medium term.
The elections are an important step in involving the people of Kosovo in the running of their own communities.
As for elections beyond those for the municipalities, we must take one step at a time and ensure that the elections for the municipal administration are properly conducted and involve the people of Kosovo more in managing their own affairs.
One thing we can all be certain of is that the electoral process in Kosovo will be fair, unlike the electoral process in Serbia.
The OSCE is responsible within UNMIK for the election organisation and for the sort of issues which the honourable Member referred to.
Maybe they do not yet have decorous televised debates with Jim Lehrer, with everybody avoiding being rude about one another, but they certainly have started their election campaign with a good deal of brio.
I happened to be there together with 200 other election observers from 52 countries.
As regards Kosovo, it would have been better had it taken part in these elections, which were simultaneously presidential, parliamentary, regional and municipal elections.
Questions 16 to 44 will be replied to in writing. (The sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m.
and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) Arms trade code of conduct (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (A5­0211/2000) by Mr Titley, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the Code of Conduct on arms exports.
As many of us said at the time in 1998, we saw the code of conduct as a very important first step towards having common and responsible arms export policies.
It is important to recognise that, at a time when our European concerns can seem somewhat abstract and rhetorical, controlling weapons is a real way in which Member States' governments, the Commission and Parliament can demonstrate the positive benefits of being able to work together here for a common approach to arms control.
It is important to develop ways in which EU candidate countries can be brought into the information exchange and into consultation mechanisms.
Candidate countries should also be involved in discussions on the further development and strengthening of the code.
The acid test of the code will be whether it deters undercutting.
In a democratic Europe we have a right to know which countries are selling arms and where.
Finally, arms fuel conflicts all over the world.
We urge our governments in Europe to tighten up the controls on the movements of these lethal weapons.
Mr President, the European defence industry is important, but at least as important is world peace.
Mr Titley' s report provides a balanced response to this recurring theme.
It argues in favour of better and stricter controls in the arms trade and greater transparency.
The globalisation of world trade makes arms cheaper, more readily available and more difficult to trace.
Needless to say, a stricter code of conduct only makes sense if the Member States assume their own share of the responsibility.
Some will claim that the code of conduct is not ambitious enough, but it is better to have a code of conduct which is flawed than not to have one at all.
This code of conduct is a first step in the direction of greater coherence, but I share the rapporteur' s hope that we will not leave it at that.
Mr President, the real solution to the whole problem of arms exports and arms production is that we should convert to non-weapons production.
The technology and expertise that is available should be used for something constructive in society, something that will benefit people rather than something that is going to annihilate and destroy people.
Countries with very few resources and very little money are coerced and forced into buying weapons when they should be using that money for social and health problems in their own countries instead of contributing to insecurity in the region and in many cases to the abuse of their own people with these weapons.
In Northern Ireland, where there is a so-called peace process one of the big companies that has come there and been welcomed with open arms is Raytheon one of the biggest arms manufacturers in the world.
We place our hopes for a world without conflict and weapons in the universal, peaceful and, more generally, popular movement.
Mr President, special attention deserves to be paid to the European Parliament' s first report on the export of arms since the Member States adopted a Code of Conduct on this matter in 1998.
The supervisory mechanism must above all be extended to the light, small calibre arms used in a great many regional and ethnic conflicts throughout the world, which are often turned against the civil and military personnel of EU countries.
Mr President, I fully share the hope and the opinion of Mrs Morgantini and Mr Brie, whose first amendment clearly states that the Union' s aim must not merely be to establish a code of conduct on arms exports, but to work for international disarmament and to end the arms race altogether.
Whatever the case, arms exports exist and it is therefore useful and it is a step forward to have a code of conduct on arms exports, which sometimes run counter to the principles that should be the identifying features of the European Union: conflict prevention and the defence of human rights.
We should therefore take this opportunity to make the code more efficient and to ensure that our young soldiers engaged in peace missions do not have to confront, as they occasionally do, arms exported by the European Union.
We have a situation in which the sale and manufacture of arms constitute a massive waste for humanity, a situation in which the market for this highly individual trade consists of present, future and potential wars of a kind which tear the world apart, and in which arms expenditure and local wars are an exacerbating factor in the underdevelopment of a large part of the planet, and yet the European Parliament proposes to regulate, and lend moral legitimacy to, a trade that has no use for ethical codes and regulations.
The report even has the temerity to present arms exports as a means of preventing conflicts, combating poverty and promoting human rights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Today's debate marks an important step in the reform process that was initiated by the Prodi Commission just over one year ago.
It is the very first legislative proposal to be considered by this House as part of the reform package.
The proposal to separate the internal audit function from the ex ante financial control function flows directly from the recommendations formulated last year by the Committee of Independent Experts, which Parliament endorsed in my report of 19 January of this year.
In its first report the Committee of Independent Experts stated that internal control and internal audit were entirely separate - even conflicting - activities, which do not belong in the same department.
They reached the conclusion that a priori control and internal auditing are activities which employ completely different techniques and address completely different concerns.
The arrangement whereby they have been kept together within the same DG should be reviewed.
With that aim in view, the human resources allocated to internal auditing should be greatly increased.
The Court of Auditors took the same view in 1997, when it wrote that there was a latent conflict between the power to grant approval - and thus expenditure - and the responsibility for subsequently evaluating the same expenditure in accordance with the criteria for sound financial management.
The Commission's fast-track proposal seeks to implement the recommendation of the Committee of Independent Experts by creating an internal auditor who operates separately and independently from the financial controller.
I have no doubt that its implementation will be one of the keys to the success of the reform package announced by Vice-President Kinnock in April.
The changes proposed by our committee are designed to clarify the Commission's text, to impose certain minimum reporting standards and to tailor the text more closely to the specific circumstances of the different European institutions, all of which are affected by any changes to the Financial Regulation.
First, the division of responsibilities between the financial controller and the new internal auditor must be clarified.
The Financial Regulation must also contain a job description.
Our committee's amendments seek to draw a clear distinction between the role of the financial controller who remains responsible for ex ante financial control, and the internal auditor, who is responsible for ex post control, and in particular reporting on the quality of management and control systems.
Secondly, the Commission's proposal would have the effect of making the appointment of an internal auditor compulsory for all institutions.
While this makes sense for an institution with a large operational budget or those with a relatively large administrative budget, such as the European Parliament and the Council, it does not necessarily make sense for the other small institutions which have a financial control staff of no more than four.
While these institutions must have the option of appointing an internal auditor, it is sufficient to impose certain minimum audit requirements on the financial controller.
When the recasting of the Financial Regulation is completed, hopefully within one to two years, it must apply fully to all institutions.
Some members of the committee have argued that the appointment of an internal auditor should be made compulsory for all institutions at this stage.
Of course such a notion has superficial appeal, but if it leads to the appointment of at least 20 additional officials without a clear prospect of direct efficiency gains it should be resisted.
The third change to the Commission's proposals contained in my report is therefore the spelling out of a minimum reporting requirement.
One of the problems Parliament has faced in recent years is a lack of standardised information on financial control from the institutions.
I therefore propose that both the financial controller and the internal auditor should produce annual reports detailing their activities.
Finally, institutions must learn from each other instead of constantly reinventing the wheel.
My report proposes that the annual internal audit report produced in one institution should be made available to all other institutions to enable them where appropriate to apply the conclusions arrived at elsewhere to their own management and control systems.
Parliament has not yet received the official text of the proposal but we have been able to see a preliminary version of the text and although I hope the full text will be forwarded to Parliament soon I also understand the Commission's wish to ensure that the text is legally and linguistically watertight.
Some in Parliament have already referred to it as the "beast", but it is going to be one of the most important items of legislation before us during the term of this Parliament.
One of the key changes advocated by the Commission is the abolition of the system of ex ante financial control.
We have therefore asked the Commission to give us an undertaking that during the transitional period which is about to begin the system of centralised ex ante control will be maintained and will not be affected by the introduction of the internal audit function.
I would ask the Commission to confirm today the undertaking it has already given Parliament in relation to this point.
I would, however, like to make my personal point of view very clear.
As the Committee of Independent Experts pointed out last year, most of the irregularities highlighted by the committee stem from decisions approved by the financial controller, that the supposed quality guarantee provided by the approval is a myth and put forward two strong arguments for changing the system.
The effort put into checking all transactions is clearly disproportionate, while sampling is unlikely to have sufficient deterrent effect.
The second and fundamental principle is that any retention of ex ante control runs up against the crucial objection that, de facto if not de jure, it displaces responsibility for financial regularity from the person actually managing expenditure to the person approving it.
Although the Court of Auditors has never explicitly backed abolition of centralised ex ante financial control and we have yet to hear its views on the proposal at present before us, it has raised the possibility of moving to a different system.
In its 1997 opinion it wrote: "As for completely abolishing the requirement of prior approval, this would not be acceptable unless it were to be replaced by other procedures that provided at least equivalent safeguards and that could also involve financial officials other than the financial controller." The Commission's challenge will be to convince Parliament that it can create those safeguards.
It also means that ex ante control must still be required when the services request this.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group in this House supports Mr van Hulten' s report and therefore also the unanimous decision and proposal from the Committee on Budgetary Control.
So - nothing against an independent, internal audit service, to which we are giving the green light today with Mr van Hulten' s report!
That is why I find it worrying that the Commission is obviously still intending, as before, to introduce the new audit service not as a useful complementary service but as a substitute for the traditional financial control.
Like several Member States, I think there is still some doubt as to what this general reform will cost at the final count or what benefits it will produce.
I also believe that, as far as this is concerned, we need the advice from the European Court of Auditors.
We cannot make a decision until we have the proposal on the new financial regulations, and within the framework of the discussion on these new regulations, a number of aspects will need to be laid down definitively.
We will be backing all amendments which help clarify the division between financial control and internal audits, as currently proposed.
This may not be practical - it is indeed the case that only a few people deal with financial control in those institutions, but the principle that the person who gives ex ante approval also self-assesses after the event is wrong.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr van Hulten' s report was very broadly endorsed in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Setting up an independent - and I emphasise the word independent - audit service is a step in the right direction and responds to Parliament' s requests in its January resolution on the reform of the Commission.
The draft version of the reform of the Financial Regulation is still not available in all languages.
Furthermore, the White Paper states, quite unnecessarily, that at the end of the interim period, the Council will be able to take into account whether or not the Financial Regulation has been approved.
We know what we want and it is the will of this Parliament, but it is crucial that the transitional period should not be extended beyond what is strictly necessary.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission' s great reform project as summarised in the White Paper is primarily aimed at boosting efficiency, i.e., at making a real improvement in financial management, covering in fact every aspect of the budget.
Let me point out that we have already implemented a large number of these individual steps, be it in relation to workplace definition or to setting up a central financial service in the Budgets Directorate-General, to name only two important ones.
I personally will do my utmost to speed things up, so that Parliament finally has this document in all the languages.
I really do appreciate the fact that Mr van Hulten made such personal efforts to find a good solution for this change to the Financial Regulation and thus to get this key component of the reform up and running.
That will not be the case, because we have decided - speaking only in terms of posts now - that 80 posts will be available for this ex ante control during the transitional period.
Let me therefore thank you for your proposals and your opinions.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Schreyer.
The debate is closed.
To this I would add two further observations: on the one hand, the number of minors with direct access to televisions and computers is constantly increasing and, on the other, there is a worrying increase in the broadcasting of violent images - portraying all possible types of violence - both in television programmes and over the Internet.
I would also like to point out that Article 22, Paragraph 2 of the directive explicitly specifies that all the Member States must take appropriate measures to ensure that broadcasts by television broadcasters do not include any programmes which might impair the physical, mental or moral development of minors, in particular programmes that contain pornography or gratuitous violence.
However, in the light of these considerations, our task is to define the objectives which we can reasonably expect to achieve in order to be able to establish genuine, reliable protection for minors.
Firstly, we must promote the development at national level of information and awareness-raising policies targeting families and the world of education in general.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a report that gave rise to much controversy when it was discussed in our committee, all sparked off by the term subsidiarity.
That is and remains mainly the task of Member State legislation, although it certainly does not preclude a consensual agreement on certain basic values in a dialogue with all concerned at European level.
These questions are at the top of the agenda.
It is a question of the EU' s political legitimacy in the eyes of the people - and time is rather pressing.
I entirely agree with the President of the Commission about the need to prepare such a list along the lines of a constitution, and I am quite clear about the fact that the subsidiarity principle must be reinforced and that the EU must therefore refrain from making policy on the wide range of areas in which the political problems are not of a cross-border nature.
Mr President, Commissioner, our children access and use televised, printed and new media on a daily basis and as a matter of course.
These measures must not be restricted to television but must apply to all accessible media.
It happened on 17 September, close to home, in Europe.
So when I hear some people stating in debates in committee that there is nothing to prove that television violence in all its forms may have a harmful influence upon children, I am, to put it mildly, surprised.
We are often alarmed at the television programmes our children watch.
The on-screen violence of all kinds to which children are subjected, whether it be on television or through the computer, has short-, medium- and long-term consequences.
With regard to the protection of minors in the media context, the definition of common criteria is therefore, of necessity, minimal, given the cultural, moral and social variations in our Member States.
Establishing minimum criteria is the very least the European Union can do for its children.
The Commission shares the view expressed in the report that cooperation between Member States and the Commission is essential if minors are to be better protected over the next few years.
The Commission is also consulting the Digital Videobroadcasting Group, or DVB, about the technical aspects of systems for protecting minors, particularly digital filters.
I should like to remind you that the Commission has adopted an action plan designed to promote safer Internet use and also to make users more aware of the problem.
I think too that, even if this public awareness campaign relates to the Internet, it will also have a knock-on effect on television programmes.
In its report, Parliament also invites the Commission to encourage the creation of a think tank with the job of drawing up a memorandum containing the basic legal principles applied in the Member States for the purpose of protecting minors in the media context.
The Commission will respond to this invitation because, as you know, we are due to table the 'Television without frontiers' directive again in 2002, with a view to testing the water.
I think it will be very important, in that context, to launch a broad debate on our society' s responsibility where the media are concerned.
When I say society' s responsibility, I am thinking not only of European governments but also of political responsibility at national level, the responsibility of media practitioners and the responsibility of parents and of society in general.
I am also very aware of the remarks made about education, about training in the interpretation of images and about making younger people more aware of the need to approach the media in a critical frame of mind and not to watch any old thing, at any time and in any way.
I would also say that the industry has already devised an international system of self-regulation called the Internet Content Rating Association, in which the Commission participates.
Where, finally, the protection of minors is concerned, I should like to point out that there is a Council Recommendation of 24 September on promoting national frameworks designed to ensure comparable and effective levels of protection of minors and of human dignity.
The objective of such a study will be to evaluate the effectiveness of the approach proposed, an approach based on the principles of self-regulation, and my officials have just set the work in motion and have sent a questionnaire out to the Member States.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Reding.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Evans, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the proposal for a recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council on mobility within the Community for students, persons undergoing training, young volunteers, teachers and trainers (COM(1999) 708 - C5­0052/2000 - 2000/0021(COD)).
Mr President, this report covers a very important issue and one that has been prominent in my post bag for nearly six years.
They do not have the problems often associated with other age groups.
We have to ensure that the experiences of young people - students and others in the educational world - are positive.
Nothing will be more damaging to their developing views, than if a report such as this fails to make progress or if it fails to deliver greater mobility or if it fails to at least start to demolish the barriers that confront educational mobility today.
Since then, a great deal of work by my own staff, by Parliament's staff and indeed by the Commission's own staff, to all of whom I pay warm tribute, has presented us with what I thought, until today, was perhaps a worthy if not perfect report, certainly one that was satisfactory and would go some way to achieving my aims.
Firstly, I understand that the Commission now believes that all references to researchers to be outside the legal base as provided for under Articles 149 and 150.
Specifically my report replaces the worthy international generalisations by, in effect, repatriating the decisions to the Member States.
As with any Parliament report, experience has shown that there is little chance of anything happening, or at best little possibility of uniformity across Europe, if there is no monitoring.
For reasons which I understand, but which will have the effect of neutering the whole report, the Commission will, I am led to believe, be rejecting Amendments Nos 46 to 51.
Commissioner, I say to you that without an action plan, without any indicators to see who is doing what, and how well they are doing, without assessment of progress, there will be so many discrepancies, so many complaints, so many letters in your post bag, so many students and teachers knocking at your door, and indeed so many MEPs lobbying you, that I suggest you will wish, even allowing for the constraints under which you work, that you had accepted the amendments I proposed and which I hope Parliament will accept.
In conclusion, I was both pleased and flattered when this report was referred to by President Chirac in his speech to Parliament some weeks ago.
If the French Presidency are now serious, then I suggest that Council will have to work very hard to salvage both their and the Commission's reputation as a matter of urgency for I suggest the failure to endorse this report in its entirety will send all the wrong, and very confusing, messages to important groups of our society. , draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. (IT) Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on this proposal for a recommendation, I would like to express my satisfaction at the end document, which was the result of a joint effort by Mr Evans, Mrs Martens and myself.
I would draw attention, out of the amendments tabled, to the inclusion in this recommendation of the specific category of researchers, since this category was originally included in the Green Paper.
Of all the petitions we receive, many relate either to mobility within the European Union, and in particular that of students, researchers and persons undergoing training, or to the recognition of qualifications.
The Commission needs to draw up a list of the problems encountered by European citizens, particularly with regard to the issues of freedom of residence and freedom of establishment and, most especially, with regard to their right to work, study and obtain recognition of their qualifications in other Member States.
This list must be accompanied by practical measures such as the establishment of objectives to be achieved by the Member States and the obligation on the latter to prepare periodic reports on the progress achieved.
Student mobility would be improved if the periods of study completed in each Member State, together with the qualifications and certificates acquired, were to be fully recognised within the European Union.
The European Commission should take ambitious initiatives designed, in the short term, to provide for the reciprocal recognition of academic qualifications between Member States.
By responding to the problems of daily life, this European Parliament and Council Recommendation should make it possible to bring Europe closer to its citizens, in particular its youngest citizens who should be the forces involved in creating a European identity.
Mr President, the 1996 Green Paper on mobility lists the obstacles to mobility.
It is about time that Europe turned its attention once more to the sound implementation of programmes such as Socrates and Youth for Europe.
It is thanks to these programmes that young people can come into contact with the thinking, the language and the culture of other countries.
In line with the 1996 Green Paper on mobility, this group should also benefit from the recommendations in this report.
As is apparent from the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, there are still many thresholds, and during my work visits in my country, I hear many complaints every time, not only about the obstacles to mobility, but also about the implementation level, the red-tape involved in applications, the number of bodies which carry out the same inspections and late payments.
The French Presidency has prioritised improved mobility for this target group.
Mr Evans has done sterling work and thanks to sound cooperation, the Culture Committee approved the report on mobility unanimously last month.
This is a sign that the continuous obstacles to mobility which stand in the way of students, volunteers, university teachers and researchers should be swiftly removed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, promoting the mobility of students, trainers and teachers is being seen as an ever more important part of the European strategy.
Regarding our own problems in the education sector, we cannot steer away from the difficulties there are in approving study credits.
I am very glad that the rapporteur pays attention in his report to the opportunities for nationals of countries applying for membership to be included in the recommendations on mobility.
The most serious problems at present concern those coming from non-member countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mr Evans and Mr Mantovani for their work.
Commissioner, we call upon you to act incisively within the Commission on this unresolved matter, so that, in full respect for national powers and sovereignty, we will indeed be able to talk of a Europe of peoples, a Europe of citizens, but also a Europe of culture.
Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the tremendous work which he has done on this report and also to congratulate the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Petitions who have drafted opinions.
This is a very sensitive subject because, as my colleagues have already pointed out to the Commission and Council, a lot of hindrances are put in the way of students, lecturers, people undergoing training and volunteers with regard to mobility within the Community.
A survey carried out by the Commission in 1998 on the ERASMUS Programme, covering 10,000 students, showed that less than 50% of the available places were actually taken up on a full-time basis and that over 60% of the students who took those courses encountered financial difficulties.
We have spoken many times about mobility and the shortcomings that exist in its regard.
No, a number of Member States will have to be forced to eliminate obstacles of a kind which may seem ridiculous.
What is more, most of the problems of which we are aware do not stem from the Commission but from the Member States and even the regions.
Last Saturday, I was in Paris for a Council of Ministers for Education, exclusively on the issue of mobility.
The rapporteur quoted President Chirac' s words on mobility.
In November, the Ministers of Education are going to take a decision not only on this recommendation, which is a small step in the right direction, but also on an action plan to be implemented in order to facilitate mobility and turn this into a reality.
At the Council meeting in Nice, mobility will be one of the items for discussion.
I should also like to say that the French Presidency is not the only one to have made progress in this area.
Our Heads of State and of Government and the regional and national governments have realised that education has a role to play if we want to develop the economic and social sides of the European Union.
The creation of a Europe of knowledge is therefore a very important step in the right direction, but we still have a very long way to go.
However, we shall get there.
I am also able to accept the following amendments, as reworded: 7, 9, 13, 20, 23, 29, 32, 42, 52 and 57 on the basis of the English text.
And, finally, I am able to retain the following amendments in part: 6, 10, 15, 19, 21, 22, 24 and 42.
Ever since the beginning, it has been more or less clear that researchers could not be part of the recommendation.
However, as is its proper role, Parliament has exerted pressure for researchers to be included in the text nonetheless.
The Commission has responded to Parliament, and these problems were tackled in a communication adopted on 18 January on the European Research Area and, in the follow-up to this communication, Commissioner Busquin will be presenting a communication on the mobility of researchers.
Allow me now to return to Amendments Nos 46 to 51 which, with a view to ensuring that the recommendation is followed up, request the Member States and the Commission to put in place a process which might be considered similar to the Luxembourg process in the case of employment.
I agree with the objective, but there is an important reason why the Commission has adopted the position it has on these amendments, and that is because, by accepting them as they stand and in their present proposed wording, the same problem would arise as when we speak about the action plan which the ministers and the Commission want to have finished drafting by November.
Following the communication of the 26 July on matching human resources to the institution' s tasks, the Commission cannot accept new tasks unless the budgetary authority allocates it the necessary resources for carrying these out.
It is a collegiate position adopted by the Commission, in view of the decisions taken, in view of the peer group and in view of staffing problems.
A good start has been made.
We want there to be real progress on this issue in the real conditions in our regions and our Member States.
It is a fine objective, and we should like matters to move more quickly.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Reding.
The debate is closed.
Yet, as we know, the process is incomplete and, as such, it is not firing on all four cylinders.
The experience of these last 50 years is confirmation of the fact that there is a constant need for a driving force: a non-exclusive vanguard made up of countries which are judged on their merits and which are convinced of the project's worth and determined to see it through.
The Commission must promote the common interests of the countries of the Union and further the management of the economy.
The Union must present a completely united front in matters of foreign policy, defence and common security.
Enlargement is essential in ethical as well as political terms: we must provide the candidate countries with exactly the same opportunity to contribute to the great process of European integration that our countries have had in the past, benefiting from the growth of their own democracies and from the security enjoyed by Western Europe.
When the decision was taken on monetary union, we were aware that we were creating asymmetry, but we were confident that this would be eliminated in the move towards a common management of the economy.
The recovery of the European economy is now taken for granted.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights was drawn up in response to the need to insert Europe into the consciousness of civil society; it is proof of the fact that European integration is not an artificial construction but one with a soul: European identity.
The European Charter makes clear to the world and, even more importantly, ourselves, who we are and what we believe.
The scope of our community of values is more clearly defined and more advanced than we ourselves are sometimes wont to believe.
With the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Europe is taking a significant step forwards in the transformation of an area which has hitherto been predominantly economic into a common area of rights, by establishing values and rules which define the concept of European citizenship.
This can be achieved in several different ways: by inserting the Charter into the new legal corpus or by attaching it as the preamble.
Personally, I feel that the Charter should form the first part of a Constitution, (Applause)the second part of which should be dedicated to defining the different institutions, their responsibilities and the relationships between them.
The determination of the European people to reform must be met with solutions which will allow federal institutions such as the European Central Bank to work together with other institutions that are organised on the basis of an intergovernmental model.
The consolidation of the values of democracy and human rights cannot be put on hold. (Applause)The recent elections in Yugoslavia have shown the intensity of the Yugoslav people's desire for freedom and of their democratic determination to bring about change.
As an Italian citizen and as President of the Italian Republic, I have never tried to hide my pro-European convictions.
In the space of half a century, the Union has changed the face of Europe and transformed relations between our peoples.
The exacting work carried out by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission must, in the interests of the Union, interact with Member States' initiatives.
We need determination, resoluteness and political will in following a path which has already been mapped out.
Subsequently, with the entry into force of the Treaty reforming the institutions, the Union will be in a position to manage the new, more substantial and more weighty responsibilities for which it is currently preparing: welcoming the first new Members to join, consolidating the common foreign policy, creating a common military force, implementing once and for all the area of freedom, security and justice and adopting the fundamental Charter of the European Union.
You have reminded us of the responsibility that Europe has, within the international community, for establishing values in the fields of democracy and human rights, and of the dramatic events in the Middle East.
We were particularly conscious of this, Mr President, last September, when we welcomed the Speaker of the Knesset and the Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council, who came here together, to this very rostrum, to deliver a message brimming with peace and hope.
Finally, you have demonstrated your confidence - and I would thank you for this - in the role played by the European Parliament and in the cooperation between our institutions, and more especially between the European Parliament and the Commission.
The way in which this House received the very powerful speech made by Mr Prodi yesterday showed not only that this cooperation is harmonious, but also that we have shared ambitions for the future of Europe.
