Even so, I want to thank all those Members who fought successfully and made it possible for us, together, to achieve a EUR 800 million increase in the funds originally allocated to this programme in the Financial Perspective.
The programme puts new emphasis on student mobility between the ages of 11 and 16, with the invaluable experience of a school year spent at a school elsewhere in the EU.
The Leonardo programme promotes workers' mobility and partnerships in ways that were formerly possible only through Erasmus.
I think that the Member States have given a perfect illustration of how to queer one's own pitch.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I am glad that we are making today a really big day for culture, with five very major programmes for us to debate and also vote on, which is not the sort of thing that happens very often in this House.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (LT) I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Pack for an excellent report.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I, too, will start by thanking Mrs Pack for the superb job she has done with this report.
I do not actually think that the European budget is focussed on the future; we are still investing too much in traditional agricultural polices and too little in education, development and research.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the purpose of this decision is for Parliament and the Council to set up an integrated programme in the field of lifelong learning, to be implemented in the years 2007-2013.
The programme is composed of four sectoral programmes, namely Comenius for schools, Erasmus for higher education, Leonardo da Vinci for vocational education and training and Grundtvig for adult education.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the lifelong learning programme is an excellent venture, and the aims enshrined in its provisions are all relevant.
A revival of the debate on the best means of taking the Commission forward would provide a good opportunity for us to speak loudly in favour of such a policy. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, on her good work, and all the members of the Committee on Culture and Education, whose contributions have enriched this text.
Those states that are able to participate in lifelong learning programmes have experienced obvious benefits from this European Union initiative.
For example, the Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci or Jean Monnet programmes are well known to the Lithuanian people, indicating that European Union initiatives in the area of education are being implemented quite effectively.
The four pillars of the lifelong programme have very inspiring names - Comenius (Jan Amos Comenius), Leonardo da Vinci, Erasmus of Rotterdam and Grundtvig.
With regard to visas and cooperation with other countries, as of 1 January 2007 Member States should implement or transpose the visa facilitation decision for students, lecturers and researchers throughout the European Union, with the exception of the UK, Ireland and Denmark.
In the 2004/2005 academic year, over 144 000 students took advantage of the opportunity provided by the Erasmus programme to continue their studies in a country other than their own.
For the 'Action programme in the field of lifelong learning', the sum at current prices amounts to EUR 6 970 million.
