Part I Subject: EASA airworthiness assessment procedures In the autumn of 2007, three accidents occurred, each involving Dash8 Q400 aircraft in Aalborg, Vilnius and Copenhagen respectively.
Provisional findings from the investigation indicate that the accidents occurring on 9 and 12 September could be attributed to a design error, a conclusion which the Scandinavian civil aviation authority (SLV) and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) concur.
The accident which occurred on 27 October may be attributed to a combination of faulty design and subsequent inspection errors.
The Agency has monitored this case very closely, and is continuing to do so, given that 170 aircraft of this particular type have been supplied around the world and are therefore in operation today.
Mr President, this was the answer I wanted to give to Mrs Jensen. (DA) Mr President, I would like to thank Vice-President Barrot for this account.
In other words, as you rightly said, we have extended the Agency's powers, but not to the point where the civil aviation authorities in the various Member States have no responsibilities whatsoever.
The Commission recommendation adopted in 2004 provides for annual disclosure regarding both the company policy on directors' remuneration and the remuneration of individual directors.
The large majority of Member States have introduced high disclosure standards on the remuneration of individual executives in their national corporate governance code or in binding legislation.
The Commission will also evaluate the extent to which companies adhere to the recommended transparency standards in practice.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, I should firstly like to remind you of the Commission's firm resolve: however useful or necessary a project may be, it should never be realised to the detriment of the environment, public health or the cultural heritage of a Member State.
The Commission is aware that the relevant Spanish authority, namely the Secretariat-General for the Prevention of Pollution and Climate Change, has approved the environmental impact assessment pursuant to its decision of 30 May 2007.
The 40-metre-deep protective wall which is to be built is only one and a half metres away from the façade of the Sagrada Familia, which weighs 40 000 tonnes.
Part II Subject: Inclusion of Ancient Greek and Latin in the European Indicator of Language Competence Given the Commission's intention to establish a European Indicator of Language Competence for the five most widely spoken languages, will it say whether it intends to include Latin and Ancient Greek in the programme for the targeted teaching of European languages, since they constitute the basis of European languages and many words derived from them are used in all European languages whatever their origin?
Member of the Commission. - (RO) The Commission's Communication, named the European Indicator of Language Competence, adopted in 2005, proposed a detailed strategic approach for conducting a European survey on language competence, an instrument that will allow the collection of the necessary data to prepare a European indicator in this field and improve knowledge regarding the teaching of foreign languages.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) The question I was asked was related to the European Indicator of Language Competence.
On the other hand, the European Commission has no information regarding possible research or studies conducted in the Member States or in regions of the Member States regarding the mentioned languages. (EL) Commissioner, as rapporteur on the European Indicator of Language Competence, I should like to point out that the duty of the indicator in question is to assess at regular intervals the overall competence in modern languages of all the Member States.
From this point of view, by all the actions it takes, the European Commission aims at defending both the official languages and the other languages spoken in the European Union.
Subject: Support for linguistic minorities What linguistic minorities received support from the Commission in 2007, and what possibilities does the Commission see in 2008 and 2009 for German-speaking minorities to benefit from greater support?
In the context of the 2007-2013 lifelong learning programme, all languages are eligible for financing, thus including German-speaking minorities. (DE) Commissioner, did I understand you correctly that German-speaking minorities cannot receive support until 2013?
Member of the Commission. - (RO) Maybe I was not clear enough.
Therefore, my answer is, categorically, that such languages can be financed in the lifelong learning programme, including during this period between 2008 and 2013.
Question No 45 will be answered in writing.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) The Commission has no intention to present a new programme of concrete promotion of the use of less widespread languages in Europe in the near future.
The Commissioner will in any event naturally answer you in writing, and you will therefore get your answer.
Let me also say that DG REGIO has prepared, for the period 2007-2013, guidance for internal Commission work on the Roma issue, which has been used across the services in the programming period.
Let me also say that in many Member States - and Hungary is a good example here - we also have steering mechanisms which are specially created for the process of new regional policy.
In the same year 11 road schemes were started which covered 222 kilometres, but there are only two schemes in the West which cover 25 kilometres.
You are correct in saying, that on examining the GDP or the GVP, for example, that it is clear that the gap is widening and that something must be done about it.
As you know, the cut in the allocation for Ireland was extremely deep for 2007-2013, and that has, of course, clearly impacted on how much we can do together in the years to come.
There will also be the IFI and Interreg 4 programmes, which will invest not only in Northern Ireland but also in the border regions of Ireland.
So, over the whole period 1994-2013, we will have invested nearly EUR 5 billion in Northern Ireland.
Nevertheless, I fully agree with the question which has been tabled by my colleague Seán Ó Neachtain.
Member of the Commission. - Let me say, in answer to the question of whether we will continue our presence in Northern Ireland after 2013, that the IFI, which, as we know, is not a Commission programme to which the Commission and the Council are contributing, will come to an end in 2010.
Questions 50 to 54 will be answered in writing.
Subject: Access to high-speed internet for citizens of all the Member States On 13 November 2007 the Commission adopted proposals aimed at reforming the regulatory framework for electronic communications.
I am worried that in some countries it worked well - these are the countries where competition is functioning well, where you have penetration rates of up to 37%, even 40% - whereas in some other countries the penetration rates are very low.
For instance, in 2003 we fined France Télécom and Deutsche Telekom for abusive behaviour in the broadband markets and, most recently, on 4 July 2007 the Commission fined Telefónica for having abused its dominant position by margin squeeze in the Spanish broadband market.
The budget for the last five years was EUR 45 million.
That is the reason why we not only propose to expand the programme with an increased budget of EUR 55 million - and I hope Parliament will increase that budget - but are also working together with private organisations, such as SchoolNet.
