Human rights in Sudan The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in Sudan.
author. - (DE) Mr President, on 6 March and 13 February 2007, respectively, Amouna Abdallah Daldoum, 23 years old, and Sadia Idries Fadul, 22 years old, were convicted of adultery and sentenced to death by stoning.
Sudan has ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and accordingly committed itself to refraining from executing any persons under 18 years old.
author. - (PL) Mr President, this is my first term as a Member of the European Parliament, but I do recall that this is our third debate on the subject of Sudan.
I welcome the fact that the six largest political groups in Parliament have come to an agreement on the matter of Sudan, and that we have a joint position.
One of these reasons is that we have already earmarked EUR 85 million for humanitarian aid to that country this year alone.
That figure was increased two months ago, as it initially stood at EUR 40 millions.
author. - Mr President, Sudan is perhaps best known for the conflict in Darfur, in which human rights abuses have reached gigantic proportions.
The country must comply with normal civil law that is in line with the human rights standards of the United Nations.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, the conflict in Sudan, which has continued for over 50 years, has claimed at least 2 million victims.
The inhabitants of this province are victims of the most serious crisis in the world today.
The situation in Darfur has been critical for four years.
During the military conflict in Darfur about 200 000 people have perished, and 2.5 million of the province's people have become homeless.
Since 2005 the Commission has funded approximately 35 projects aimed at promoting human rights and democracy in Sudan with a total budget of about EUR 6 million.
This case was first raised by the heads of missions meeting in the Netherlands in mid-March and it was followed by the EU Troika on 27 March, composed of representatives from Germany, Greece and the Commission.
More recently the EU raised the issue at the last Advisory Council on Human Rights meeting on 16 April.
The last case which we are discussing now is the case of two boys aged 16 years old sentenced to death by hanging.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates.
