Special attention must also be paid to the role of Member States that manage approximately 80% of the Union's budget.
Furthermore, and pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty, I propose that cooperation between national audit bodies and the European Court of Auditors be stepped up as regards shared-management controls.
From our point of view these countries are not standard regions, they are not conventional states and they do not present typical problems.
The sample taken for the audit included six states and 250 transactions.
A very important matter from our point of view as the European Parliament is that the assessment of regularity should not only be carried out after the fact, but that it should take the form of supervision and control to prevent irregularities.
We confirm very clearly in the report that the EIB had a sum of EUR 2.2 billion at its disposal.
Finally, I would like to thank the commissioner for his cooperation during this term of office.
As rapporteur for the discharge of Parliament's accounts, as a member for 10 years of the Committee on Budgetary Control and as spokesman for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I am very proud of what we have achieved and I feel that it would not be asking too much for the public to register these changes, which they themselves have insistently demanded.
I find it unacceptable when generalisations are made that are completely wrong, such as maintaining that all MEPs are entitled to two pensions.
While regretting the lack of clarity that existed in the past between public duty and private interest in the pension system, I should appreciate some recognition of the work done by all those who, particularly on our Committee on Budgetary Control, have fought tirelessly for rigour and transparency in the European accounts.
Here in this House I want to pay a heartfelt tribute to everyone and express my wish that the work carried out by our committee to date should be continued in the next parliamentary term, with the same vigour and commitment that has been shown so far in order to bring about a stricter and fairer Europe that offers greater solidarity.
The Parliament to be elected in June will operate under much more transparent and fairer rules, and that is something that everyone here today has cause to celebrate.
The rapporteur, Mr Søndergaard, will be with us later due to a flight delay, so I will call on him to speak later.
The number of agencies has increased from 11 in 1995 to a total of 27 today.
In 2007, the budget for all the agencies was EUR 1 243 500 000.
In 1995, the average budget for one agency was EUR 7 million, whereas now it is over EUR 22 million.
In 1995, 38 people, on average, worked in each agency.
We have therefore chosen to deal with 21 of these agencies that we are responsible for in separate reports and also to draw up a horizontal report dealing with the problems that are common to most of the agencies.
The committee and I therefore propose that we postpone the granting of discharge until Cepol has provided a full declaration in this regard.
This is not something I do gladly, but I would maintain that it is the only responsible thing to do.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, this is the fifth time I have stood before you as you prepare to vote on a Commission discharge resolution.
Article 248 of the Treaty gives the Court of Auditors the task of providing a Statement of Assurance 'as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions'.
During the Intergovernmental Conference on the Lisbon Treaty, I looked at whether one could fix Article 248 of the Treaty.
I would also like to remind you that the evaluation procedure for the selection of projects has been improved together with the relevant monitoring, but at the same time, the committee regrets the fact that the structure for the description of works has not been harmonised and technical and financial monitoring has not been standardised.
In the case of the latter, 2007 was actually its first year of operation.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I propose that the Commission's agencies be given discharge for 2007 in the areas of environmental policy, public health and food safety with regard to the budget's implementation.
We also would like to draw attention to the fact that errors highlighted in the report should not be mistakenly understood as irregularities or possibly even abuses.
Without making light of some of the infringements in the newest Member States, Bulgaria and Romania, I think that it is necessary to guarantee equal treatment for all Member States.
The image conveyed to citizens by our Parliament and by the European Union in general is very important.
I think that the discussion about a positive DAS should be continued without let-up.
With regard to cohesion, the committee states that it notes with great concern the ECA's estimate that at least 11% of the total amount reimbursed in connection with structural policy projects should not have been reimbursed.
I therefore call on all my fellow Members to give a large measure of backing and approve the Casaca report.
I believe that it is important, and I support this, that agencies are not only subject to totally objective scrutiny, but also that we should examine their own individual development.
The fact that the Socialist Group is now backing down and would rather sweep the truth under the carpet is scandalous and does a disservice to our control activities.
The Commission sat back and watched for a long time and did not freeze the funds until 2008.
In the meantime, however, over EUR 1 billion was lost in connection with Bulgaria and around EUR 142 million in connection with Romania.
So I do not think this is too late, but I regret of course that this has taken so much time. (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, my speech will be brief.
I also do not think that anyone has taken the liberty to mislead public opinion and, least of all, Parliament and the Commission.
Thus, it is said that things are going badly, but because we are all responsible.
The Council is responsible because it is losing interest: it is not here.
We need the cooperation and constructive ideas that we have developed over recent years.
Mr President, I am very thankful for this excellent piece of work produced by my committee and, as you know, tomorrow we will recommend that the discharge not be granted.
Although there was not very much debate on my reports on discharge for the agencies, I hope that all of my fellow Members will choose to support them, irrespective of how they voted in the committee or of what they have previously indicated.
The vote will take place on Thursday 23 April 2009.
Even so, our committee is concerned by the low implementation rate of payment appropriations in the area of freedom, security and justice compared with 2006 (60.41% in 2007 and 86.26% in 2006).
in writing. - (DE) Around 80% of EU funds are still being managed and spent by the Member States and there are still open questions and irregularities in connection with the handling of European Union money.
