&#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the following reports; – A6-0323/2005 by Mr Becsey, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 77/388/EEC on the common system of value added tax, with regard to the length of time during which the minimum standard rate is to be applied (COM(2005)0136 – C6-0113/2005 – 2005/0051(CNS)), – A6-0324/2005 by Mr Becsey, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive laying down detailed rules for the refund of value added tax, provided for in Directive 77/388/EEC, to taxable persons not established in the territory of the country but established in another Member State (COM(2004)0728 – C6-0251/2005 – 2005/0807(CNS)) and – the oral question to the Commission by Mrs&#160;Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the expiry of Directive 1999/85/EC as regards the possibility of applying on an experimental basis a reduced VAT rate on labour-intensive services (O-0106/2005 – B6-0342/2005). &#160;&#160; .
Accordingly, we too agree with the proposal and with its time frame, namely with the extension to 2010.
We also accepted the necessity of having to debate this issue with extraordinary speed, before the last ECOFIN session on 6 December, to enable the Council to have the opinion of Parliament and make a decision in view of it.
However, our Parliament has also adopted another significant position on this issue, which does not affect the current prompt decision of prolongation, but it is important to us.
We would actually like to avoid a situation similar to the current one, where we are pressed for time both in respect of the extension of the minimum standard VAT rate and the intensive employment regime expiring at the end of the year, which has been implemented with the involvement of several Member States who have all gained valuable positive experience in the process.
In our request proposal prepared with the participation of all parliamentary factions, we ask the Commission to evaluate the current standard implicit – that is, converted to one rate – VAT level differentials and their budgetary implications, particularly in respect of the differentiations seen in Member States joining the EU during the last enlargement, which are unable to apply the individual reduced rates, and can only effect transition to the special areas not included in the Sixth VAT Directive (that is, not included in Annex K or Annex H) until 2007.
Based on the material to be prepared by the Commission, we will be able to define our parliamentary position on the issue of VAT charged at source or charged to the consumer, and then examine whether or not, in the spirit of subsidiarity, we need to set a minimum and a maximum rate at Community level, and if the answer is yes, whether we should use the normal standard or implicit – that is, the actual converted – rate for these VAT rates.
My second report concerns VAT refunds.
So far, collection has only been possible if an entity was VAT registered in another Member State.
As regards, in fact, the reduced VAT rate system in labour-intensive sectors, we are in an economic, social, political and legal situation that is unpleasant to say the least, if not downright complex.
Thereafter, a proposal by the Commission dating from 2003 was submitted to us, of which the Members of our Parliament voted almost unanimously in favour on 4 December 2003 and which has since been blocked by the Council.
Today we have our backs to the wall: this twice-extended system will expire at the end of the year and, in nine Member States, entire sectors still do not know, at this very moment, which tax system will be applied to them as from 1 January of next year.
We are today on the eve of an ECOFIN Council at which, I hope, the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance will hear the very loud signal this Assembly wants to send out to them through this oral question, as well as through several written statements, which have been submitted at our Parliament’s Registry and signed by a large number of Members.
I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Becsey, for his two reports, and to Ms Berès for the oral question on such an important issue which is very close to my heart.
I would like to stress that, while I fully understand the concerns of the honourable Members regarding the absence of a decision in the Council only one month away from the expiry date for the reduced rates for labour-intensive services, I do not think that the current proposal can be used to solve this problem.
I now come to the oral question and the motion for a resolution concerning the reduced VAT rates on labour-intensive services.
I would like to thank you for putting this question to the Commission.
I am also very much concerned about this issue as the current regime to apply reduced VAT rates on labour-intensive services is due to expire at the end of this year.
I very much appreciate the UK Presidency’s efforts to find a compromise on reduced VAT rates.
This issue was discussed at the Ecofin Council on 8&#160;November and will be discussed again on 6&#160;December.
I can assure you that the Commission will do its utmost to help the Presidency reach a conclusion on this matter.
Some delegations reject any extension of Annex H as a matter of principle.
The reduced rates listed in Annex H are optional, so that, apart from a few categories in respect of which reduced rates are largely applied throughout Europe, there are already today huge disparities between Member States.
This is still the case.
First, only locally delivered services should be added to the existing scope of the reduced VAT rate provisions.
Third, the compromise must be fair in the sense that it should represent a step towards the equal treatment of all Member States.
The situation is clearly not the same as it was in 2003 and it is therefore exceedingly unlikely that the Council will – as it did previously – unanimously request that the Commission propose an extension.
In addition, a simple extension of the labour-intensive services experiment offers no solutions for the widespread demand to also include restaurant services in the scope of the reduced rates, because currently they are not in Annex K.
I therefore invite you to support the original position of the Commission.
Worse, though, are the difficulties – and I cannot describe them as anything else – surrounding Annex K and, indirectly, also Annex H to the sixth VAT Directive.
We endorse his report and also what others have said about the VAT refund.
Ideally, I would like to see them incorporated in Annex H, namely in the structural solution.
I, for one, am in favour of having this discussion on a much broader footing.
That is why I join Mr Becsey in saying that I am not in favour of formulating a maximum rate in this interim period and that I am all for making the possibility of using those low rates structural.
Low rates apply on social grounds, employment grounds, and in order to regulate and prevent moonlighting.
Moreover, the issue is not only of the specific products subject to these VAT rates in different Member States but also the varying terms of validity of these exceptions.
Therefore, I would like to propose and support those proposals, that the European Commission review and draft a common list of goods and services that would be subject to lower rates; in addition, the Commission should evaluate the macroeconomic impact on and experiences of different countries in order to ensure that the list is valid in the long term rather than being temporary, unless otherwise specified by mutual agreement.
I accept that it can be difficult to quantify the positive benefits in terms of job creation, but I am also convinced that suddenly reapplying VAT to labour-intensive services will have a negative impact.
The period of application of this directive, which allows the Member States to apply reduced VAT rates to certain activities so that the corresponding jobs can at the same time be maintained, has been extended twice.
It follows that the European system cannot be that bad! &#160;&#160; Mr President, your use of your leadership position to deliver yourself of political statements can be said to be an image issue, but these things, technical though they may sound, do touch upon the fundamentals of our life as a Community.
There are two Austrians who might be able to give you an example of how to do things.
Karl-Heinz Grasser is trying, in Austria at least – and in this I think he is exemplary – to prevent companies operating at an international level from shifting their input tax around without ever actually having to hand over any VAT.
In German, the word has a dual meaning: it is associated not only with taxation but also with steering.
Both examples show us that the outcome of what we are debating now will be no more than a provisional arrangement that will get us no further forward. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, we are currently faced with a situation in which VAT rates vary widely within the European Union.
The end result of all this is price distortion within the European Union.
These different rates also have a negative impact on resource allocation and, in the long run, reduce the EU’s growth potential.
Moving on to reduced VAT rates for labour-intensive services, I should like to reiterate the point that these rates were introduced six years ago on an experimental basis.
The fact is that the special rules introduced in 1999 – for three years in the first instance – on reduced rates of VAT applied only to a few Member States and to certain labour-intensive services.
Thirdly, after the end of the extension period, that is to say, with effect from the end of next year, the only areas to benefit from the reduced VAT rate would be those where the reduction had had a demonstrably positive effect on prices and employment.
The implementation in 1999 of the experiment of reduced VAT rates for labour-intensive services has proved its effectiveness.
In France, for example, the BTP (public buildings and works sector) estimates that 60&#160;000 long-term jobs have been created.
The experiment has also contributed to combating illegal work.
Furthermore, this measure is beneficial in combating global warming.
We therefore genuinely await positive signals from the Council in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 May, only a few days before the referendum on the European Constitution, the EU Presidency announced an imminent agreement on reduced VAT rates for the catering sector in France, rates that would decrease from 19.6% to 5.5%.
In order to make people vote in favour of the Constitution, the French Government had boldly to confirm this promise throughout the entire campaign, a long-standing promise, in reality, since it had already featured in the programme of the Presidential candidate, Mr&#160;Chirac, in 2002, and even in 1995.
A reduced VAT rate that also brings to the surface resources which were previously submerged, and which can be used to fund future pensions.
The irony of all this is that while here we are speaking about having lower rates, to experiment with these low rates, there are some governments in other countries, including that of my country, Malta, which, since joining the European Union not only did not experiment with low tax rates, but increased VAT from fifteen to eighteen percent.
I also believe that the range of services should be widened and should apply also for other services such as environmental services and restaurants.
This experiment has proved successful, and in order to ensure our credibility with the people who elected us and whom we represent, the Commission and the Council should place greater value on one of the few experiments that have been truly successful. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I add my voice to those of my fellow Members, at the risk of repeating the same arguments and opinions.
The experiment of reduced VAT rates has been carried out in some Member States, but unfortunately for all of those countries, it has been carried out at a time when the European economy has not been particularly impressive, especially in many of the largest Member States.
Secondly, the experiment has been positive inasmuch as it has brought about changes of an all but structural nature in some countries in the space of six years.
I therefore hope that, with the support of the Commission too, the Council will at last listen to the voice of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, while I support the report’s conclusions with regard to the minimum standard VAT rate, it is my duty to share a few problems I have with some of our rapporteur’s arguments, and I am pleased to have the support of the great majority of my group in this matter.
Let us recall that the starting point in 1992 was indeed one of moving in the direction of converged VAT rates in the context of the single market.
This convergence did not actually take place, but Parliament’s proposal to set a maximum rate of 25% could decisively encourage us to move in that direction and thus prevent too great an imbalance between rates, something that is disadvantageous.
That is why I support this proposal, which has been adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and endorsed on two occasions by the European Commission.
The non-renewal of this measure, which has positive effects on employment, whatever Mr&#160;Klinz’s and others’ views on the matter, would not only be regrettable, as you said, Commissioner, but would also be a real catastrophe for all of the sectors concerned.
I support Mrs&#160;Bérès, who very competently explained our concerns in order to press the Council, when it convenes for the last-chance meeting on 6 December, to reach a solution on the basis of the Luxembourg proposal, which has been taken up and enhanced by the UK Presidency.
I would ask Commissioner Kovács to reiterate his support for this idea, which he expressed at a conference of the European Charities Committee on VAT here in Brussels two months ago.
This principle has already been accepted by the European Parliament in the Randzio-Plath report, and I call for the Commission’s support in the decisions to be taken before the end of this year.
Without it charities will lose millions of euros each year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this package of proposals from the Commission, particularly in the context of achieving a reduction in the administrative burden for businesses, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, which supply goods and services to other Member States.
The current minimum standard rate of VAT fixed at 15% is due to end at the end of this year.
I support that generally and, in particular, I support the decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to have an impact analysis on implicit and standard rates of VAT in the Member States, which should also consider allowing all Member States the same opportunity to apply reduced rates on certain goods and services.
Currently, VAT rates on food in some Member States are prohibitive and need to be looked at urgently.
The first amendment concerns a restriction on the level of the standard rate by setting a maximum level of 25% to prevent growing divergence in the standard rates of VAT applied by the Member States.
This would require a new proposal from the Commission, thus preventing the adoption on time of a minimum rate to be applied as from 1 January 2006.
Amendment 3 seeks to extend the deadline, which I believe is not necessary.
Amendment 4 is not workable as, on the one hand, a strict deadline of four months for refunds would be imposed on the Member States, but on the other hand, there would be no deadline for a taxable person to hand in the requested additional information.
Moreover, we need to be very cautious, since a unanimous agreement in the Council on such an extension would seem as hard to achieve as a genuine agreement on the scope of the reduced rate as such.
This is a very important signal to the Council of the need to reach an agreement that takes into account the interests of the European Union as a whole, as well as those of all the Member States. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received one motion for a resolution(1), tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Chirac deliberately lied to French catering workers by making them believe that it was possible for him to reduce the VAT on their work without asking for Brussels’ permission.
It is not certain whether the Council will reach an agreement before the end of the year on the recasting of the VAT Directive, and particularly on the application of a reduced rate for labour-intensive services.
The real mistake and the real errors lie with those who sought to strip the Member States of their sovereign powers. &#160;&#160; The European Union has made employment its priority and yet it is unable to make a decision regarding the application of the reduced VAT rate in labour-intensive sectors.
Neither the European Parliament nor other institutions of the European Union should allow themselves to be drawn into these unsavoury political manoeuvrings, which have been orchestrated with the aim of discrediting the achievements of the governing coalition in Slovakia. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, your response has disappointed rather than surprised me.
It is now a question for the European Commission to state whether it is acceptable to suppress the rights of police officers in Slovakia.
For, a police officer is an EU citizen and an employee just as any other EU citizen or employee.
We have placed two important questions before the Commission.
Parliament yesterday allowed this question to be referred to the Commission, thereby giving a very strong signal that it does not agree with the use of such practices by any EU Member State.
Civilian status for the police is one of the things democracy has achieved in Europe; it is something we have fought for, particularly in the Balkan countries, where police were involved in military actions during the ethnic conflicts.
On behalf of independent members of People’s Party – HZDS in Slovakia, I express our support for the call made by the European confederation of police EUROCOP to change the system of management of police forces in Slovakia, and convey our request that the matter be investigated by the European Commission. &#160;&#160; Our discussions today about the issue and expressions of support for protesting policemen are part of the opposition’s election campaign and of a smear campaign against a successful Slovak Government minister.
It is not true that at time of war policemen will be tried in the same way as soldiers.
It is not true that from 2006 Slovak police will be overseen by the military.
I therefore ask the Commissioner to answer two questions: first, are we right in saying that the police in Slovakia do not have the same access to a fair treatment in court as any other citizens in Slovakia?
That is my answer for the time being, but it is certainly not the Commission’s last word on the matter. &#160;&#160; &#160;The House has clearly expressed its wish that the questions raised here today should be answered at a later date, and I hope that the Commissioner will pass on this wish. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would just like to ask a formal question on procedure.
It is crucial that we, on the eve of the WTO Conference in Hong Kong, should have a regulation in place.
By voting in favour of Amendment&#160;3, we are not deleting the part of the sentence in paragraph 13 that states that an exception in the field of services must be made of the health care, education and audiovisual sectors.
Paragraph 19 in fact mentions the agreement on investments, and this is an error, because this paragraph relates to the measures for accessing medicines and, therefore, it is definitely the agreement on intellectual property – the ADPIC Agreement in French and the TRIPS Agreement in English – that should be mentioned and not the TRIMS Agreement, the agreement on investments.
In my opinion, it is crucial that Parliament and the European Union should recognise the right of women in developing countries and in Islamic countries, for example Saudi Arabia, to participate fully in all sporting activities.
I believe it is vital that the European Parliament stand united on this issue in fighting for co-decision over the development cooperation policy, currently undermined in this proposal.
This agreement enables a new balance to be found for the European Commission’s proposal which, in the context of the WTO decision, made it still more difficult for countries faced with serious public health problems to gain access to medicines.
I particularly endorse the attempts by the Rapporteur and Draftsman to extend the applicability of this regulation to non-WTO members, of which at least 40 are developing countries.
The Commission and Member States such as France waited until 1996 before taking protection measures.
We also welcome the amendment to the directive currently in force, advocating measures to cover low pathogenic viruses in poultry, to prevent the risk of mutation into the highly pathogenic form.
The proposal for 50% support in respect of loss of income until a new holding is up and running, without of course undermining the workings of the market, was also rejected.
The intention is now to use this legal framework for the countries that joined the EU on 1&#160;May&#160;2004, and were under the legal obligation to become part of the euro zone.
Hence our vote against.
We maintain our opposition in principle to the euro.
In the wake of the new Member States’ joining the European Union, surveys published in the Western press showed that, while the citizens of these countries were in favour of a membership tying them once and for all to the democracies, they did not understand everything that such membership would involve.
Attempts are subtly being made to speed up debate on VAT harmonisation, which would undermine other flexible elements of the current arrangements, such as reduced rates of VAT in line with the different social and cultural needs of individual Member States.
Nevertheless, I would be disappointed if this scheme collapses. &#160;&#160; .Fifty years ago, two Frenchmen, Maurice Lauré and Georges Egret, invented the greatest piece of technology in the history of taxable humankind: the VAT system, applied by more than 123 countries, including EU countries from the time of the first directive in 1967.
The intelligent move to make today would be to put European labour on an equal footing in terms of taxation with international labour, by turning the page on a century of mistakes and doing away with the idiotic tax on labour.
The Doha round should include consideration of such non-trade-related issues as society, the environment and culture.
South-South trading remains an important vehicle for long-term development of countries as 70% of tariffs paid by developing countries are paid to other developing countries.
Further, developing countries stand to make great gains in this area since trade between developing countries is estimated to be growing twice as fast as global trade and already represents some 40% of developing country exports. &#160;&#160; After Seattle, Doha and Cancun, now comes the turn of the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference to continue 60 years of philosophical and technical mistakes with regard to the reduction and, in the long run, abolition of import duties.
I therefore welcome the fact that this resolution advocates support for economic growth in developing countries, and that emphasis is placed on social, environmental, work, cultural and, last but not least, economic concerns.
