It is a time for hope, for the uniting of all democratic political forces.
I would say again that this is good news not just for Spanish society, but for the whole of Europe, because it shows that terrorism can be fought through the power of democracy.
We would call for unity amongst all European democrats now and in the future, in order to achieve a definitive peace.
As you have said, Mr President — and I say this with profound emotion — this is a time to remember the victims. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our highly respected fellow Member Mrs Dührkop’s concluding remarks would also have been my first, namely that our thoughts today are with the men and women murdered by ETA and with their families.
In a democracy, a change comes through the ballot, not through the bullet.
The actions of ETA, the IRA, the Red Brigades and the other terrorist groups we have known in the past have been unjustifiable terrorist actions.
On behalf of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I welcome the process through which ETA has announced this ceasefire.
That was what happened in Northern Ireland and that is what is happening in Spain, too.
I therefore congratulate the Spanish Government and I congratulate all those who have had the strength to show that they are taking a stand and that they are not giving way but, rather, that they want to have done with terrorism, and the end of terrorism always hinges on negotiations.
There must be a parity of esteem between the different sides of the argument; there must be respect for the divergence of opinion; but, most importantly of all, we must never forget that lives have been sacrificed needlessly because people refused to talk to each other on an equal basis and on an equal footing.
It is based on respect for people with different ideas and focuses on ways to work together.
Finally, the opportunity that is now presented by this decision from ETA is a groundbreaking one, but do not forget that opportunity comes to pass, not to pause: we must grasp it now and work to fulfil the ideas within it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to endorse everything the previous speakers have said and to thank Mrs Dührkop Dührkop in particular.
It is important that all democratic parties, all citizens who live in democracy and peace, clearly say: there is no way we will accept terrorism, that is not what we want, we want to live in peace and friendship with one another.
I hope that this day with the ETA announcement really will result in a political and peaceful solution to problems in Spain. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I certainly join in welcoming this announcement.
The mistake that was made in my country, when the associate organisation of ETA declared its ceasefire back in 1994, was that everyone rushed forward with political rewards for that which had been done.
The process is possible.
I hope that peace will also finally be established in Spain and the Basque country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the communiqué from the terrorist group ETA does not alter the situation in Spain in any way.
The communiqué tells us that ETA is going to stop killing for as long as it sees fit and that it is doing so in order to achieve its supposedly political objectives.
The communiqué, which does not contain a single word of remorse, which does not contain any request for forgiveness, which does not contain the least demonstration of submission to the rule of law, does nothing more than demonstrate the cynicism and moral meanness of this criminal group once again.
I hope that the Spanish Government will only accept one kind of communiqué from ETA: one which announces that it is disbanding and handing over its weapons and one which asks for the forgiveness of so many people who have undergone such suffering and such unjust pain at its hands. &#160;&#160; Thank you to everybody for your reactions to ETA’s communiqué. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to join with you and the people of Spain in welcoming the good news you have received.
I would echo the words of Mr Poettering – and indeed I have learned from my own experience – that it is much easier to make war than it is to make peace.
I agree with Mr Poettering when he said that those who have been waging that war and taking those lives should not be rewarded for bringing an end to that now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that we are dealing with a very important piece of news, not just for Spain, but also for the European Union, because ETA's announcement is a fact.
I therefore believe that we are unquestionably facing a new situation which deserves the attention and support of all of us in seeking a definitive solution to this problem. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also come from an island which had suffered almost 30 years of terrorism.
It is a matter for all democrats – both in Spain and in Europe – to back the Spanish Government in taking the process forward, because if we allow organisations like ETA or the IRA to see a gap between democrats as to how peace can be built, then we will fail and they will win. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had no intention of speaking following the heartfelt speech of my colleague, Mrs Dührkop, but following the speech by the Vice-President, Mr Vidal-Quadras, I just wished to say one thing, because I believe that all of us here are united in calling for European democrats to come together in order to support this process.
I just wish to say to Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca that I hope that his political party and his group will behave in the way that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament did when the People’s Party and the People's Party government were responsible for starting a negotiation process following a ceasefire that was similar to this one but which did not have the same content. &#160;&#160; That concludes the speeches on this subject. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform you that a delegation from the Danish Parliament, headed by its President, Mr Christian Mejdahl, is currently attending our sitting from the official gallery.
Rule 130 is concerned with the agenda, Rule 103 with statements and proposals by the Commission.
I do not believe the European Union can stand idly by while a dictator shamelessly destroys democracy in Europe.
Thought must therefore be given to the measures the European Union can take to put Mr Lukaschenko in his place.
I would therefore like to ask the Commission today to put forward suitable proposals on this agenda item before the debate in the next plenary session and to explain the measures which it – the Commission – is proposing or is able to propose for taking action against Belarus and its present government and for strengthening the opposition there. &#160;&#160; Mr Schulz, the agenda for the next sitting will be set by the next Conference of Presidents.
It will be discussed by the Conference of Presidents. &#160;&#160; Mr President, then I request that the item be placed on the agenda of the next Conference of Presidents. &#160;&#160; Very good, it will be on the agenda of the next Conference of Presidents. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with reference to Rules 133 and 144 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Schulz is talking about the following plenary part-session, but I wonder why we are not taking the opportunity of this part-session of this House to discuss the situation in Belarus.
I would just like to state that this meeting does nothing to resolve the irregularities committed by the leadership of the IND-DEM Group towards 11 Members forming the so-called minority within the group, who, perhaps not by chance, are also declaring that they are totally unconnected with the obscure events which have brought the leadership of the group to the attention of the European Court of Auditors. &#160;&#160; Mr Borghezio, Members cannot come to the House and ask for the floor simply in order to explain any problem they may have.
The problem you are raising is strictly one involving the internal organisation of your political group.
The Presidency knows nothing about it and has no power to interfere in the way your political group does or does not call meetings for any reason.
I therefore regret, Mr Borghezio, that I was not able to cut you off as I should have done. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would also like to come back to the points based on Rules 133 and 144.
I understand that, technically speaking, you may well be right about the fact that the request should have been submitted three hours before the start of the sitting.
The President must conform to the Rules of Procedure and act accordingly: the matter is closed.
If it was so important to you, you could have taken the trouble to present the request in writing before the sitting, because I imagine that you did not just discover the issue of Belarus half an hour ago, did you?
The plenum is sovereign and the appropriate action will be taken according to the support expressed, but the President must conform to the Rules of Procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree; our Group accepts that.
If a Group believes that this subject ought to have been debated here today or tomorrow, Mr&#160;Poettering, then a telephone call would have sufficed.
We can debate the matter tomorrow, but not with your farcical behaviour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not have a special theme I would like to discuss with you: this still concerns Belarus.
While Mrs Ferrero-Waldner calls for pressure to be put on Belarus, she was a member of the Schüssel Government that faced sanctions from the EU.
Please think carefully about the steps you are taking, so that you are not faced with the embarrassing prospect of having to ignore them in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I am always pleased when the grand coalition starts to shake.
That is always good for Parliament.
When I spoke on the telephone with Mr Schulz, on his initiative, at five minutes to three or five minutes to two – I do not exactly remember – I certainly had no idea that there would be a debate on Belarus here today.
So if a request is presented this afternoon signed by 37 Members or by a political group – as the Rules of Procedure stipulate – the debate on Belarus will take place tomorrow.
Please pass on our thanks to the government of your country, Minister. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Commission Statement on the 2007 Annual Policy Strategy.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, our debate today consists of taking stock and planning for the future, as well as finding a consensus regarding the priority actions for 2007.
The Commission has placed the effective implementation of its policies at the heart of its objectives, but if we are to implement them effectively we need a genuine partnership between the European institutions.
The Commission has focused on its objectives and has achieved a rate of implementation of nearly 90% for its priority actions.
The Stability and Growth Pact, the revised social agenda and the sustainable development strategy have been steered in a new direction.
The Hampton Court Summit helped achieve a new consensus on the key elements of the Union’s action in a world that is heading in the direction of globalisation.
The Union demonstrated its ability to respond rapidly to people’s needs after the tsunami and the London bombings.
It has also shown that it is capable of working as one body, with the European consensus on development, to which the European Parliament itself also subscribes, being the expression of a genuine common approach.
As far as the financial perspective is concerned, however, I believe that we are closer than ever to reaching an agreement.
If we find a solution very soon, then we will still have enough time to get under way with implementing most of the programmes at the start of next year, something that is particularly important for the less wealthy countries and regions of our continent.
As for the future of the European debate, we can still take advantage of the events and make use of that period in order to find a genuine consensus regarding which direction we need to take.
I believe that we are on the right track: the annual progress report on the Lisbon Strategy, the Green Paper on energy policy, biofuels, the European Institute of Technology and the road map in the field of gender equality are so many major initiatives that are already on the agenda.
I believe that 2007 will be a crucial year in terms of achieving the strategic objectives set by our Commission for its term of office.
They form a coherent political framework designed to guide the action of the European Union.
I believe in fact that they constitute a sound basis from which to re-assess the direction that our Union must take.
With the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome coming up in 2007, attention will rightly be focused on the great values and the general objectives of the European Union.
The main target must continue to be sustainable growth to provide more and better jobs in Europe.
I know that this Parliament is committed to playing its role in a real partnership for growth and jobs.
Provided they meet the necessary conditions, in 2007 we shall see the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, and I look forward to their contribution to the European Union.
Health issues will remain central, with greater preventive efforts against pandemics.
We shall be preparing for the future, with intensive work on the comprehensive review of the Union’s budget leading to a White Paper in 2008-2009.
This will naturally include the European Parliament and I welcome your intention of close association with this process.
Let me also say a few words on our ability to deliver on these priorities.
Firstly, we have a strategic planning and programming cycle ensuring an effective and timely delivery of our priorities and concentrating our resources on these tasks.
The Commission states its intentions, consults on them, adopts its work programme and reports regularly on its implementation.
However, we need to further strengthen the political relevance and substance of our discussion on our strategic planning and programming.
Secondly, we have implemented a range of instruments to promote better regulation and good governance, which I believe is having a real impact on the rigour of our work and the quality of our output.
The Commission will also carry through its simplification agenda, covering various fields from environment to industry, the modernisation of labour law, the promotion of consumer rights or key internal market sectors.
However, let us not forget that governance and better regulation are the shared responsibilities of all the European institutions and the Member States.
As I have said before, better regulation is crucially important for liberalising our economic potential, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is the very principle of the good European tradition.
So what are the next steps?
The annual policy strategy decision forms the basis for our dialogue in view of preparing the Commission’s work programme for 2007.
That had a real impact on this year’s work programme.
Mr President, honourable members, the Commission puts this strategy forward in a spirit of partnership.
Mr&#160;Barroso, you talk to us about a potential forthcoming agreement, but I have not heard you say the word ‘ambitious’ – an ambitious agreement – and I therefore remain sceptical.
In the dialogue that we are embarking upon, you can count on the momentum of our Assembly in formulating its political priorities for 2007.
I am pleased, moreover, to see that the European Commission is finally recognising that economic cohesion, solidarity and environmental protection can be reconciled with our objectives regarding growth and employment.
As regards SMEs, we must create a competitive regulatory environment and help our businesses to gain a better foothold in international markets.
You want to make 2007 an important year where communication is concerned, and I approve of your ambition.
Coining new words, however, has never been part of a good communication strategy.
We will have to be objective, disregard all ideologies, no longer treat nuclear power as a taboo subject and keep in mind that our energy dependence must never exceed 50%.
We therefore need to improve the means of transporting energy and to think, first and foremost, about solidarity among the Member States.
In the area of security and freedoms, the extension of the Schengen area worries our fellow citizens.
The future enlargement to incorporate Romania and Bulgaria will have to be decided in the course of this year.
Finally, we will pay a great deal of attention to the preparation of your White Paper on the reform of the EU budget.
The bold approach which you and your Commissioners pushed for when presenting your Financial Perspective, Mr Barroso, was cut by EUR 200 billion in the European Council.
I wondered what happened to Mr Barroso’s strategic outcry against such incorrect financial policy.
You told this Parliament you would fight for these strategic objectives with this financial allocation.
And then you told Parliament the Council’s decision was a success.
My criticism is therefore directed not so much at you and your Commission as at the partners on the other side.
In every single case, you and your Commissioners must go and say that we cannot announce we are going to give Europol more power, that we can fight terrorism and crime more efficiently at European level – incidentally, the joint fight against crime and greater internal security are the European matters getting the highest rate of approval from Europe’s citizens – and then have the Council cut the appropriations by EUR 7.8 billion – and that three days before adopting the additional programme for Europol that sounds so good in the newspaper.
You can expect us to support your strategic objectives – you have named the right strategic objectives – but we expect you to stand at our side in our battle, as Parliament, with the Heads of State or Government for a little more credibility for European policy.
The 2007 Annual Policy Strategy succeeds in putting flesh on the bones of the Hampton Court proposals, which could help make Europe the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world, if Member States would only move beyond the platitudes dished up at the annual Lisbon Spring Council.
This paper promises what previous annual policy strategies manifestly failed to provide: practical proposals for European renewal by creating legal migration channels and a common European asylum system – and their corollary of better border management – to provide the workers and security that Europe needs; by fast-tracking a European energy policy; completing the internal market for energy and gas; investing in clean coal technologies; and balancing flexibility and social protection with the demands of markets to boost growth and competitiveness.
I refer not only to attacks on the services or takeovers directives from economic protectionists, I am talking about a more general myopia that prevents Member States from seeing the bigger picture; the myopia which prompted the Council to throw out proposals to name and shame poorly performing countries and refuse adequate funding for Europe’s priority areas.
Europe needs them to construct a coalition of the coherent. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing another strategy, another paper and another set of priorities; in the same way in which we debated the others, we would like to place the emphasis on two or three issues – firstly on the agreement concerning the financial perspectives.
Mr&#160;President, you know very well that coming to an agreement now, today, with the Council would mean a dramatic reduction in our ambitions and, naturally, those of citizens.
I fully agree with the agreement on the financial perspectives, but not subject to the Council’s conditions.
Until we can count on agreement and a clear alliance with the Commission on this point, debates like today’s will remain somewhat devoid of substance.
You said that the priorities will be Schengen, controls and borders, but you said nothing about one point although it is mentioned in the text: the problem is an aspect that we consider a priority, which is legal immigration procedures.
The fact that the Commission is not able to say one word – not even one – on the subject of the thousands who have died between Mauritania and the Canary Isles and on the fact that my country, Italy, still has an unknown agreement with Libya that has been hidden from you and from this Parliament, which has caused the death of a huge number of people in that desert, means that debate about a common immigration policy is still just empty words.
We have a problem; you are aware that there are differences of opinion on this matter, and particularly that in our view nuclear energy and renewable energy cannot be placed on the same footing – they are two different things.
In addition, on energy issues, there is still a gaping hole in the Commission’s strategy: its silence on the transport question.
I would like to end, Mr&#160;President, by saying that there is another priority which is being ignored in this area, and that is our cities.
Cities are an opportunity not only as a kind of laboratory but also for Europe’s use, and currently insufficient use is being made of them both from the viewpoint of financial support and from the viewpoint of major strategies.
Perhaps it is better to start with cities rather than with major infrastructure, which in any case will not be financed by Europe either. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the major question raised by my political group lies not solely in the policies for which specific provision is made for 2007, but also in the doubts which are being created in our mind in connection with the broader strategic direction being given to the European construct as a whole.
Action by the Commission ought to cover all spheres, and at the same time it should choose as its priorities those initiatives that are important not only in one specific sector but also for the overall development of the European Union.
In the Commission’s programme, the launching of the space programme and the regular evaluation of strategy were among the most important measures mentioned for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in 2007.
While not contesting the importance of these measures, I believe that specific measures to foster the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the development of the services sector would offer broader support to the Lisbon process, but such measures were not included in the list.
Although the development of small and medium-sized enterprises appears among the priorities listed, this priority is not reflected at all in the list of principal actions.
It is the development of this sector, however, that can actually make the most rapid contribution to achieving the goals of employment and growth.
Although the development of the services sector is and remains one of the main instruments for implementing the Lisbon Strategy in the Commission’s strategy for 2007, no specific measures for the development of the services sector are mentioned.
We hope that it was not as a result of a deliberate move, but of a failure to coordinate the strategy established with operational measures, that the reform of the services sector was not included in the Commission’s policy strategy for 2006.
The adoption of the Services Directive in 2007 will also clear the way for new initiatives by the European Commission in sectors that have been identified for liberalisation of services.
One of the main criteria according to which the European public will judge the European Union’s viability and future prospects in 2007 will be the concrete results of action taken by the European Union’s institutions, including the Commission.
The Commission must be open with people.
May I also thank the President for quoting Montesquieu.
He too was in favour of the threefold division of power, although not in a way that corresponds fully to the Commission’s mix of legislative, executive and judicial powers.
It seems to me that Machiavelli was more of an inspiration than Montesquieu when the Commission’s powers were designed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, President of the Commission, 2005 will unfortunately be remembered by Europeans as the year in which the Constitutional Treaty was rejected in two of the EU’s founding Member States.
This should serve as a warning to us politicians that we are paying insufficient attention to our citizens.
The European Union has not yet managed to become unified following its most recent enlargement to include 10 new Member States, and yet it is already preparing for the future accession of Turkey.
The year 2007 could be a year of opportunity in terms of achieving a more unified Europe that demonstrates more solidarity if the old Member States open up towards the new Member States, particularly as regards liberalising their labour markets.
Unfortunately there appear to be few countries with the courage of Spain and Portugal, which know from their own recent experience how difficult it is to be a second-class citizen in the European Union.
I propose that any future enlargement of the European Union should either be full, or that it should not happen at all.
This would provide a good opportunity to improve the prospects of farmers, particularly in the new Member States, who could become involved in biofuel production.
The worldwide process of globalisation is inevitable.
It is our duty to help developing countries, but also to enhance our European social model and to care for those of our citizens who are least able to look after themselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as already stated by other Members of our Group who have spoken before me, we welcome the ideas concerning Commission policy for year 2007.
I welcome them both in respect of the procedural issues and their content.
In respect of procedural issues, I am pleased about the initiative that had already started last year as a result of the agreement reached between the European Parliament and the European Commission, ensuring that the European Parliament, including its committees, will have a greater involvement and opportunity to participate in the drafting of the annual policy strategy and legislation programme.
Paradoxically, we could also say that the fact that the document does not contain budgetary specifications due to the absence of financial perspectives has had a positive effect on it, as it enabled a better concentration on the political goals and tasks facing the European Union.
At the same time, we should not forget the context in which this plan has been created, either.
If we want to avoid a European Parliament full of Euro-sceptic groups, we should make sure that the Constitution is routed in the right direction before the start of the European Parliament elections.
While we feel that the tensions that had arisen in the European Union in relation with the last enlargement, due to a decrease in solidarity, are still unresolved, let us step into year 2007 in such a way that we work on the tensions that had come into existence in the course of the last enlargement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Barroso, I would ask you to give more thought than you do in your paper to how you might better communicate to the public the contents and objectives you so rightly define.
No, without greater competitiveness we will be unable to maintain the social system in Europe, without greater competitiveness we will be unable to maintain the social model of Europe.
Education must reach broad sections of the population if we want to achieve one of Europe’s essential objectives, namely to prevent the exclusion of people or groups.
A second example I would like to take, because you place a great deal of emphasis on it in your paper, is energy policy.
I am very pleased that you visited Moscow recently and – from what I have heard – not without success, even though it is in many respects still up to Russia to take decisions, on the Energy Charter in particular.
Finally, I have also heard that you have said we should also talk about nuclear energy.
You are right and I am very pleased that we shall be hearing from the Commissioner responsible for energy shortly.
I think more ought to be said about this subject in particular, both by you and in the Green Paper.
Because without more infrastructure – pipelines in particular, but in other areas as well – we will never be able to give this continent energy security and we will not give Europe the corresponding new technological boost.
I wish you more strength and courage, however, in putting these decisions into effect.
You mentioned Montesquieu, and someone else wanted Machiavelli.
I wish you the wisdom of a Montesquieu, but also the strength and cunning of a Machiavelli, to get your programme through. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President Barroso’s quotation from Montesquieu prompted me to search the annual policy strategy for a clue as to what the Commission proposes to do with the Constitution.
Public opinion will remain sceptical about the European project and, without the support of public opinion, the Commission will lack the necessary clout inside the Council.
Factories are leaving Europe for other countries.
It means increased redundancies.
It therefore means a worse life.
Yes, I am talking about Mr Duff’s Plan B and a lot more besides.
You will have another chance to fit this European thing we have in front of us together in a meaningful way.
But please look now at the contributions that are really being made to the debate on the Constitution and the positioning of the European Union.
Think a little like Vasco da Gama – and I am not talking only about Chindia – and then fit it together so that we can really take advantage of this historic opportunity, which will present itself again, before the European project simply falls flat or implodes.
I am curious to see what you will be able to say to us after May 2007.
You ought to be telling us now that you will have something to say then, because otherwise it will be the same old trick again and that will quite certainly result in failure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when I spoke on the Commission’s policy strategy at the end of last year, I commented on the fact that we had no sense whatsoever of priorities in that strategy.
The problem with your strategy is not that we are short of new ideas or new initiatives, but we are actually short of real delivery of the policies that are going to create the jobs and growth of which you are so fond.
You used a great phrase – and I applaud you for it – about putting out the red carpet for small enterprises.
There is not one single priority action, President Barroso, that mentions small enterprises.
So, it is very welcome that we are having a debate about this, but we need better-quality material; we need material that is much more focused on real strategy and resource utilisation, rather than on these gimmicky words that Mrs Wallström appears to be giving you.
We want something with a real sense that you are putting priorities on delivering the real foundations of the European Union and making the internal market work better, and not just coming out with a whole set of uncosted priorities that look good on paper but in respect of which there is no idea as to whether they are really going to work in practice. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, today I should like to concentrate on some of Europe's priorities for 2007 from the perspective of European enlargement.
It can now be said that the 2004 enlargement has been a great success for Europe, from a political, security, economic and social point of view, and I am sure that 2007 will see that success continue.
In this regard, I should like to challenge the Commission to be proactive in helping those countries to prepare for the arrival of the euro, and strictly to monitor compliance with entry requirements, the so-called Maastricht criteria.
In 2007, the new Member States of Central and Eastern Europe will also become part of the enlarged Schengen area.
The scrapping of internal border controls between Member States, enabling genuine freedom of movement within the Union should under no circumstances mean enabling freedom of movement for all manner of criminality, illegal migration, and so forth.
The fight against crime and violence in Europe, along with the launch of the second generation of the Schengen system should, to my mind, form part of the EU's clear and practical priorities for 2007.
Romania and Bulgaria must be as properly prepared for accession as were the 10 accession countries in 2004.
I believe that this is extremely important for the credibility of future enlargements and if the European public is to accept this process. &#160;&#160; I would like to inform Members that Mr&#160;Barroso, President of the Commission, is obliged to leave and has therefore requested permission to bring forward his speech in order to furnish some replies and clarifications.
I will still be able to answer some of the questions.
I should first like to express my gratitude for the comments, which were for the most part in favour of our programme.
In general, however, I feel I can say that the Commission's objectives for 2007 have been received positively.
More specifically, Mr Watson asked why we put objectives relating to energy conservation and environmental protection under the heading of solidarity and not that of prosperity.
Of course, they could and should come under the heading of prosperity, but we put them under solidarity in order to highlight their enormous importance, given that the term ‘solidarity’ refers to solidarity with future generations.
The struggle for a clean environment and for sustainable development is of direct relevance to our future as a whole.
This was what led us to put environmental issues under the heading of solidarity, in terms of presentation.
There have been a number of clear Commission positions on this issue, expressed by Mr Frattini, and the truth of the matter is that we are fighting to achieve a joint approach, where possible, among the Member States on these issues.
Mrs Frassoni also asked about the absence of any mention of transport in the context of energy policy.
When it comes to energy efficiency, we feel that the transport sector is crucial.
One of the honourable Members mentioned the opening up of labour markets in Europe.
On the back of our report, a number of Member States – not only those mentioned, namely Portugal and Spain, but also Finland and the Dutch Government – have announced their intention to promote the liberalisation of the labour markets in Europe at the earliest opportunity.
This is moreover the case in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden.
Today, in fact, we announced a very important measure, the air safety ‘blacklist’, which is the first piece of legislation adopted by this Commission, with the support of Parliament and the Council.
This is indeed the Commission’s job, but I should like to add, if I may, that all of us are responsible for doing this: it is also the responsibility of Parliament, the honourable Members, national parliaments, of all those who have Europe’s interests at heart and those who feel the necessity to explain the added value that Europe brings.
On the nuclear issue, Mr Swoboda, our position is very clear: we respect the subsidiarity principle.
This is a tough question in Europe; there are Member States in favour and others against.
Mr Swoboda mentioned my meeting with President Putin.
I wish to tell you that, despite Russia's wealth of natural oil and gas resources, President Putin has stated that one of Russia’s main priorities in the future is to develop nuclear energy.
The Commission is not taking sides in the nuclear energy debate.
This is not what we are discussing here today, but I should like to confirm that the Commission remains devoted to the principles and the values enshrined in the draft Constitutional Treaty, and we are working on this issue.
In any event, I was happy today to hear Montesquieu, Machiavelli and Vasco da Gama mentioned in our debate, which shows that the level of debate in Parliament is moving ever upward.
So, now some remarks in English about the financial perspectives.
On the basis of compromise texts presented by the Commission, a third trialogue took place yesterday afternoon with the Austrian Presidency, the negotiating team from Parliament and the Commission.
On the interinstitutional agreement itself, there is almost full agreement, including on the idea of adding a new Part Three on sound financial management.
Subject to final technical verifications, texts have been agreed on important points such as the Financial Regulation, certification by Member States and the review clause.
They are agreements .
All these points have been considered key elements in various resolutions adopted by Parliament.
I am pleased to see that the three institutions have been able to reach consensus on them and I am proud of the contribution that the Commission made to that agreement.
I want to be clear about this.
The Commission supports the most ambitious possible agreement.
If there is no compromise, it will be negative for all of us in the European Union, in particular for the new Member States and those Member States and regions that really need our solidarity for their development.
A final trialogue is scheduled for 4 or 5&#160;April 2006 in Strasbourg.
Therefore, I approve of ambition but with realism and responsibility, trying to bring all the institutions on board.
I know that the Austrian Presidency is actively seeking an agreement with all the Member States.
Let us all work hard towards reaching a good agreement and then, if we have good intentions, a good strategy and good policies.
Is the answer to unemployment economic growth and reliance on economic freedom and the free movement of labour?
In third place, the issue of the Lisbon Strategy is a key problem for the future of the European Union.
The European Union has the ability to make Europe a place of innovation and a global partner, but to do this it needs a strategy.
It is my belief that today’s debate is evidence of the importance of Parliament, and it would be a good idea if all the other European institutions took Parliament seriously. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have read all 15 dreary pages of this document and believe it to be a report of the past rather than a document for the future.
We do nothing to boost confidence among our electors by having silly stories as we have had in the United Kingdom this week about church organs, and the European Union’s intention under the WEEE Directive to ban church organ repairs and building because of the lead content.
As Dumas wrote, ‘all for one and one for all’: we need the European grid of energy which can resist any attempt to pick off any one of our Member States.
We must take up the Austrian proposal for a diabetes framework; we must work hard on the Commission’s own proposal on mental health.
And the Commissioner who came to our Budget Committee even said that not all funds are used for public relations and publicity campaigns.
I trust that the European Commission will present a reform programme for its government structure as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make three points.
You call this document – not necessarily very aptly – ‘boosting trust through action’.
Mrs Wallström, you of course play a very important part in doing that.
Therefore, I would encourage you, Mrs&#160;Wallström, to focus more on communication on the Constitution.
I think we are coming back to the fact that we want to achieve results and we want to win trust.
These are basic and core conditions for us in order to build a stronger European Union.
If we engage in a democratic discussion and debate with citizens, it will also be easier to explain why we need constitutional reform in order to achieve those good results.
Acting in partnership, we will all have to explain what the European Union does and what it is.
I will definitely take all your comments back with me and pass them on to all the other Commissioners. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the oral question to the Council (O-0007/2006 – B6-0009/2006) by Mr&#160;Chichester, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the security of energy supply. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I am delighted to be putting this question on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
It follows the question that was debated in January on the subject of security of supply of energy.
The world has moved on a little since then.
I would like to thank the Commissioner and congratulate the Council for doing that.
Therefore, our question asks what the Commission will do in order to react appropriately to developments and changes in the geopolitical, strategic and diplomatic situation.
However, I wish to emphasise that I feel those aspects are more within the purview of our colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Parliament recently adopted an amendment seeking an ambitious but realistic target of 60% of electricity in the European Union coming from ultra-low or non-carbon-emitting sources.
This is only possible with a combination of renewable energy sources and nuclear energy.
However, there are other energy sources that we must remember.
Since the EU enlarged, our proportion of dependence on imports of coal has gone down from 50% to 35%, because one particular Member State is a significant producer of coal.
The motion for a resolution attached to this oral question places emphasis, among other things, on greater efficiency in the transport sector.
However, its importance has become evident, especially during the course of this year.
This is why the European Council meeting tomorrow will deal with this matter as one of its priorities.
We also convened an additional extraordinary Council meeting of energy ministers, to which you have alluded, in order to prepare for the European Council meeting in the best way possible.
That meeting of energy ministers came up with very useful and helpful suggestions which will be discussed tomorrow and the day after.
It also became evident that, in connection with the gas dispute between Russia, Ukraine and Moldova, the question of energy supply is not only a question that we can discuss among ourselves.
It is important for us to emphasise the political and economic stability of the transit country, for example.
We also need to include countries of supply and consumer countries in our debates.
This is why we have intensive relations in this connection with OPEC, Russia and other important countries such as China and India.
There are other important international agreements, such as for example the energy agreement with south-east Europe.
There are of course also other important aspects to the security of energy supply, such as the question of the diversification of our energy sources, especially to include domestic energy sources, in particular, too, the question of renewable energy sources.
For this reason, the Council also considers it of the highest importance that the resolution of the European Parliament and the Council on trans-European energy networks should be adopted soon, since it will be impossible to diversify supply and hence have greater security of supply without resources to expand the European energy network.
I will refer briefly also to the Directive on measures to safeguard security of natural gas supply, which was adopted in 2004.
Turning now to your question about alternative energy sources, Mr Chichester, the Council believes that two main components of energy policy deserve particular mention here, and I have already referred to them briefly: the question of diversification of fuel sources and energy efficiency.
As has already been said in today’s debate – energy was a key element in the debate you have just concluded, and rightly so – the Member States must themselves decide on the energy mix they will choose as an expression of their national policies.
Whatever the Member States decide, diversification of fuel sources naturally includes – and I think this is particularly important – diversification of supplier countries, so far as energy imports are concerned; but renewable energy sources are also particularly important here.
I would also like to draw your attention in this connection to the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and the Council on the promotion of the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels for transport.
In December last year, agreement was also reached with the European Parliament on the draft directive on energy efficiency and energy services, which I hope can be adopted in the next few months; we are working to that end.
There are also measures in the non-legislative sphere; only last year, for example, the energy ministers made a contribution to the 2005 Spring European Council.
In a way, the Green Paper on a European strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy has given the answers as to how we should proceed in addressing the challenges set out in your question.
In a recent opinion poll, 47% of European citizens supported action at European level.
It is clear that the main added value of this Green Paper lies in this common approach where we stress that security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability cannot be separated in our energy policy.
We provide for some actions that really provide for not only stronger competition but also cross-border trade: cross-border energy transactions.
I agree that diversity is the most important issue, but to use this diversity in the best possible way we need a lot of information and a lot of transparency.
However, we know that action in one particular Member State influences all the other Member States, at least the neighbouring Member States.
That means that we should take action taking into account our neighbours’ energy policies and try to boost the best possible actions.
A strategic EU energy review, which would allow us to revisit these issues continually, is necessary to provide the best approach in terms of each state’s energy mix.
Energy efficiency and renewable energy development will definitely be on the rise in deciding an energy mix.
However, at the same time, I also believe that the nuclear energy that is now in the energy mix will be used in many Member States.
This is not a demonstration project: for the first time, a real industrial project involving 860&#160;megawatts is bringing new possibilities for a diversification in the energy mix that corresponds to the objectives of our energy policy.
Parliament has debated the Green Paper on energy efficiency.
Tomorrow, the European Council will have the opportunity to debate these issues.
We see that China is making strategic purchases on the energy markets; we see that Russia is moving away from a continuous, reliable policy; and we see that world markets are undergoing very dynamic developments.
We therefore need to stand by our goals, the goals of the Lisbon Agenda.
This could open up whole new areas of business to our small and medium-sized enterprises.
With an increasing global demand, the consumer countries must unite in the face of markets that are organised into cartels with the aim of influencing the level at which prices are set.
In a context such as this, energy savings and increased energy efficiency are the main priority.
That being said, renewable energy sources cannot totally replace traditional energy sources.
These choices are the responsibility of the Member States, which must freely decide what their energy mix will be.
Europe will have to invest more in research on energy efficiency, on renewables, on carbon sequestration, on clean coal, on nuclear safety and on fusion.
The Union will have to implement a more united energy policy.
We need to overhaul production and distribution and to regulate the market in such a way that it operates properly.
In other words, consumer rights and transfer capacity need to be regulated, and the dominant position of the big energy companies looked into.
We in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe support the Green Paper and find it extremely constructive, as, too, we do Mrs&#160;Kroes’ work on the issue of competition.
In this situation, many heads of national governments are now getting nervous and wish to re-regulate.
That is a disgrace when we are at a stage at which, by siding with them, we can help the new Member States obtain stability where the supply of energy is concerned and at which we can solve major environmental problems.
It is a disgrace to put forward these arguments when we can also create so many jobs in Europe.
I fear they will not; tomorrow Mr&#160;Berlusconi will put on a big show, and Enel will announce that it is going to take over Suez.
In other words, it will be a show for the Italian elections, and Mr&#160;Villepin and President Chirac will use the whole affair to paint themselves once again as national heroes in a French government that is falling apart.
Transport policy must be central to energy policy, and, until it is a central element, all of these documents are just paper tigers.
We have not so far managed to achieve good coordination at all levels.
History shows that these forecasts are credible, even if we were to do everything possible to save energy, improve energy efficiency, support the use of alternative forms of energy and use biofuels, and even if we were to build more nuclear power stations while decommissioning the old reactors.
The EU wants to satisfy all of the growth in its energy needs by using gas.
The availability and price of oil and gas are crucially influenced by competition for the same natural resources by China and other countries in the Far East, resources which hitherto have been almost exclusively used by the OECD countries.
Our group supports the Commission in its search for alternatives.
A policy that results in the price of electricity rising in some countries in order that it can come down in others is unacceptable.
For some countries, this is a form of solidarity that is too expensive. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in recent weeks with the Suez-Enel case and what is happening at the moment regarding E.on’s bid for Endesa, which has been blocked by the Spanish Government’s decree increasing the powers of the national energy council, confirms a regressionist tendency of the Member States with regard to the principles and rules on which the European Union is based.
Only yesterday, Mr&#160;Barroso said, ‘I hope that the heads of government will answer the question: do they have the political will to find European solutions to European problems?’ The energy problem has been examined by the Commission in all its aspects in a valuable, almost point-by-point analysis, which I do not want to go into here because it is well known to all.
In the joint resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group concerns are voiced that all European citizens today share, and solutions are put forward that a majority of citizens and Member States would like to see.
In yesterday’s statement, again, Mr&#160;Barroso spoke of the existence of 25 different energy markets and 25 different policies in the sector.
The question I put to each and every one of us is: ‘Can Europe be governed by 25 different governments, or has the moment perhaps been reached when European strategy regarding foreign policy, security and energy should have a single decision-making centre in order to be able to deal in a timely and consistent manner with the challenges now thrown up by the fast-moving modern world?’ &#160;&#160; Mr President, recent interruptions to the energy supply have resulted in a renewed awareness of the vulnerability of imported energy.
Furthermore, the crisis situation involving Russia and Ukraine has made the option of importing liquid natural gas from other regions a live issue once more.
The fragile functioning of the internal market is also demanding our attention, and recent debate on the creation of national champions should not distract us from that.
The Member States already possess powerful instruments to deal with issues of security of supply; in addition to drawing on a wider variety of sources of energy, they can also call more upon their emergency reserves.
Critical distance is preferable to further integration in the energy sector with countries with which our relations are less than stable. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe’s dependence in the energy sector is worrying, as the Commission’s Green Paper shows.
Within the European Union, only Ireland, Luxembourg and Portugal are more energy-dependent than Italy.
The rise in energy prices translates for everyone into greater expenditure on petrol and on electricity and gas bills, and environmental concerns also influence choices in this field, to the extent that the nuclear option is becoming topical again.
In order to combat energy dependence we have to make the supply system more flexible, rationalise the use of energy, distribute energy locally both with small conventional facilities and with renewables, and invest more in research: it seems that it is no longer possible to delay thermodynamic solar power, geothermic energy, the use of biomass, the introduction of new combined gas cycles in electricity generating systems and, lastly, the revival of nuclear power.
These are the issues and the challenges of the future, but we need to ask ourselves why Italy and Europe are still losing ground to Russia and, above all, to China.
Gas and oil from Iran to China and Russia, energy flows and resources in which European companies have for decades invested a huge amount of research capital – all this has been wasted for the sake of servility to non-EU interests.
This means that Europe is once again missing a great opportunity for development, security and social well-being, and is increasing its dependence in terms of both energy and politics.
Europe must find the courage to make geopolitical choices appropriate to its interests if it truly wishes to secure a future for its peoples.
This is the kind of revolutionary action, above and beyond existing directives, that Europeans expect from the Commission and the Council. &#160;&#160; Mr President, energy, as we have recently witnessed, is also sometimes treated as a weapon for exerting political influence by states which enjoy a quasi-monopolistic position, as in the Russia/Ukraine case.
The problem should therefore be considered as a foreign and security policy issue and so, besides Commissioner Piebalgs, I would willingly address Mr Solana and Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner.
It is essential for the EU to develop a true external security policy dimension in relation to gas and oil deliveries, which is distinct from energy policies .
An energy security clause should impose an obligation to follow a certain code of conduct and to promise not to use energy delivery as an instrument of political pressure.
The time has come to move beyond declarations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, energy policy has a clear external dimension, which emerged dramatically in the January crisis between Russia and Ukraine.
For its part, the European Union has in recent years put in place policies such as strategic cooperation with Russia, the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, the Neighbourhood Policy and the agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council.
These relations involve the main oil and gas producing countries.
The answers to these questions presuppose something very like a European energy plan.
The Green Paper constitutes a first step, but there is a lot more to be done and the European Parliament naturally wishes to be fully involved in this policy. &#160;&#160; This resolution is a very important and timely document, expressing the European Parliament's position on the changing situation in the European Union energy sector.
The resolution marks the beginning of the debate on the Green Paper for a safe, competitive and harmonious energy policy.
Alongside energy consumption efficiency, the variety of energy sources mentioned in the resolution is the fundamental factor in reducing European Union states' dependence on the supply of energy resources from third countries.
Significant attention is paid to the area of nuclear energy, as nuclear energy is an inseparable part of the European Union energy sector.
It is right that initiative to develop nuclear energy should remain the prerogative of Member States.
The principle of energy solidarity between Member States is extremely important.
Unfortunately, it fails to mention any of the projects which are important for the Baltic countries and Poland, such as the ‘Amber’ pipeline or electricity connections, allowing the isolated Baltic region to be quickly switched into the European area. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I greatly fear that the Commission proposal on natural gas, which comes in the wake of the Russian/Ukrainian crisis, is not commensurate with circumstances or requirements.
If we want to achieve the objectives set by the Commission, we need to invest more and more in drastically strengthening renewable sources of energy, in saving energy, in developing energy networks.
Russia’s supplies have recently become restricted because of climatic conditions in Siberia, the lack of security for pipelines in the north of the country and the uncontrollable urge to use energy as a means of exerting political pressure on the country’s western-oriented neighbours.
Our energy problems come precisely from outside the European Union.
For a long time to come, renewable sources of energy will remain an expensive addition to our energy resources.
Imposing excessively severe restrictions on European industry, often on the basis of dubious scientific assumptions, is a factor restricting our competitiveness. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the EU’s shambolic liberalisation of the energy market has already resulted in gross distortions.
Liberalisation has directly resulted in enormous increases in the wholesale gas price in the UK.
The Conservative Party, in the form of Mr Chichester, is yet again inviting the European Union to meddle further and deeper in Britain’s affairs.
Britain should follow the example of France and Germany and protect its own national interests and those of its domestic energy consumers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, over the coming days, the Heads of State or Government will debate the possibility of launching a common energy policy.
Both the governments and the citizens have become aware of the seriousness of the situation, of the vulnerability of our system of supply, of our dependence on imports and of our urgent need to take measures which are a match for the circumstances.
In a globalised world, the national giants are minnows at world level, and Europeanist speeches are of little use if, when it comes to making decisions, words have not been followed up with concrete actions.
This can happen, for example, as a result of a storm on the other side of the ocean, and many other things.
We have a good solution to this problem: energy cooperation within the Union.
If we in the European Union do not show solidarity, we can forget about the energy solutions which are being discussed here.
Energy has shot up the political agenda, but geo-political initiatives are only one part of tackling the security of supply problem.
Heavy industrial users in the north-east of England have had to fight to get hold of gas supplies even at inflated prices because the market is simply not working.
The Spring Council tomorrow needs to bite the bullet and name and shame those Member States who have failed to open up their gas markets. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the supply of energy and the use of all sources of energy are a political option which must aim to take a combined approach to all grass-roots requirements, such as reducing energy dependency, saving energy, ensuring residents are safe, protecting the environment and safeguarding energy products as a social – not a commercial – commodity.
This would address the crucial issues and ensure that energy is a social, not a commercial commodity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Poland is particularly susceptible to policies that exploit supplies of natural gas and crude oil to the country as a means of exerting political pressure.
Such policies are implemented by the main supplier of these fuels, namely Russia.
That is the reason behind the Polish Government’s initiative, which has been submitted to the European institutions and which would enable us to implement a solution to the problem of energy security based on the principle of ‘one for all and all for one’, or in other words the principle of solidarity.
A perfect illustration of such a policy is the construction of the northern gas pipeline across the Baltic Sea, following an agreement between Russia and Germany.
Although this will indeed greatly improve Germany’s energy security in the future, it will threaten the economic interests and energy security of countries such as Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and others outside the European Union, such as Ukraine.
What is required is therefore concerted action by the Member States, or in other words a common energy policy.
This is why the Polish initiative I mentioned earlier merits serious debate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;President-in-Office, I want to talk, not about energy policy as such, but about the foreign and security policy actions associated with it.
In view of the fact that Russia, it seems, is using energy as a political weapon this winter, and in view of the situation in the Middle East, we need to realise that the issue of security of energy supply is an extremely problematic matter, more so than we have experienced in a long time.
I think we need to work much more closely with Ukraine and the southern Caucasus to modernise and develop energy networks.
I would therefore quite particularly like to say that the previous German Government's decision to construct this pipeline under the Baltic Sea, bypassing Poland and the Baltic states, was a poor one.
I wholeheartedly agree with that.
At the same time, though, I had hoped for some more specific proposals.
The Commission's Green Paper raises the question of whether new targets should be set at all.
If I understand correctly, the Council is currently discussing a new target of 15% by 2015, which is clearly a step backwards.
It would be more important to take a really good look into ensuring that we can achieve our target for 2010 – 12% of total energy consumption coming from renewable energy.
It is therefore very important and necessary for what you, Commissioner&#160;Piebalgs, announced to Parliament to happen, namely for a directive on heating and cooling from renewable energy to be proposed, as it is precisely in this area that there are deficiencies.
Therefore, to those who say that atomic energy is so important, I say this: we have the opportunity to replace this energy source.
We also need to do so, because it is a non-renewable source and we are completely dependent on imports of uranium.
An essential part of this strategy is the creation of a single European market and a consistent EU policy.
In the energy field some countries have gone beyond the monopoly philosophy but others have not.
If we restrict ourselves solely to calling for the completion of individual national markets, we will end up with an asymmetric and therefore weak European market.
It will be internally weak, in other words incapable of correcting those distortions that are well known to us, those limitations that have been analysed in our reports.
The second vital point is that, in the energy mix that we must achieve, we must determine not just national choices but European objectives and corresponding reference indicators on energy saving and efficiency.
We expected the Council to be bolder in its choice of objectives and infrastructure as well as research policy.
These are European objectives of a Community energy policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to mention a couple of technical points after the political comments that have been made.
Yesterday evening, not far from here in Solvay, the Ukrainian Government gave a presentation of the country’s potential – the largest natural gas reserves in Europe and gas and oil transit pipelines from Turkmenistan and the Caspian Sea, which are independent of Gazprom.
It requires investment, construction and repair of pipelines, and we, the European Union, must help Ukraine in these tasks.
At present, Europe needs to organise its own energy potential and to improve the use of this latter by increasing thermodynamic efficiency.
By building cross-border networks, the enlarged European Union can tap into the considerable time differences between its easternmost and westernmost borders in order to ease peak loads on electricity networks, and it could also exploit seasonal temperature differences along its north-south axis.
However, this crisis also provides us with a huge opportunity, in that we are now finally discussing energy issues objectively and sensibly, and we might be able to come down from our trees, put old battles behind us and stop parading dogmas.
But we must make a combined effort to discuss all the issues openly and to find broad-based solutions.
Moreover, by promoting differentiation as to the types of energy source, including wind and solar energy, the countries of origin and the passage through countries, we shall help to bring about new conditions for development, finding employment and strengthening sustainable development.
I should also like in this direction to highlight and emphasise support for the production of biomass by drawing up national action plans which will safeguard the economic and entrepreneurial certainty and confidence of investors and producers and, at the same time, provide a way out of agricultural production.
Mr President, Commissioner, throughout the ages and even now, major conflicts and wars have taken place for two purposes: firstly for energy and secondly for water.
Europe must stand and confront this international problem with stable policies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, energy security and diversification of the source of supply has dramatically risen up the political agenda this year following the use of the ‘gas weapon’ by Gazprom against Ukraine and Moldova over the New Year period.
I have repeatedly made a case for a stable Kazakhstan to join the ENP, as it is eager to get away from the risk of economic and political dominance by Russia and China and could indeed supply not just oil and gas but also uranium to the European Union, as we will inevitably have to build more nuclear reactors to satisfy Kyoto and not be over-reliant on unstable regions of the world –such as the Middle East, Venezuela or Nigeria, to name but a few – for fossil fuels.
Obviously, a lot also needs to be done by the Member States – preferably through intergovernmental cooperation – to work towards more energy efficiency, to develop more technologies in the form of renewables, but also to interconnect their electricity grids in a pan-European system, which will drive down prices and allow spare capacity.
I also believe Russia must be encouraged to join the Energy Charter to prevent it from stopping third countries using its pipelines.
Some Member States of the European Union seem to have no reserves at all. &#160;&#160; First of all, I would like to remind us all why this matter is being discussed here today.
If the country’s chosen course does not suit Russia, as in the case of Ukraine, then it will not get cheap energy.
As long as the European Union lacks a common energy policy, and as long as each Member State or head of government tries to secure for itself the best possible deal with a company in a large country outside the European Union, we will remain dependents, and victims of deals made on the side.
Europe needs a common energy policy just as we need our common trade policy, which makes the European Union extremely effective in negotiations.
Just imagine what position Germany or France, not to mention my own small country of Estonia, would be in if they were to be on their own in negotiations with the USA or China at the WTO.
If, however, you owe the bank 100 million euros, you own the bank.
A common energy policy, however, would be decided by Europe itself. &#160;&#160; In relation to EU geopolitical strategy, I&#160;would like to point out the important (albeit well-known) fact that most of the new Member States are totally dependant on supplies of oil and gas from Russia, and in this respect differ from many of the old Member States, whose fuel supplies are more diversified.
In the rush to catch up with the economic performance levels of the old Member States, security of energy supply is becoming an ever more pressing issue.
With regard to electricity supply in particular, a number of new Member States have inherited an energy supply mix dominated by nuclear energy generation.
However, I cannot disregard the solidarity principle, which should enable individual Member States to develop this type of energy without at least being exposed to negative external interference.
I&#160;welcome the Commission’s initiative to support research in this area aimed at improving further the safety of nuclear power generation, for example through research into recycling or nuclear fusion technologies and other related fields.
I&#160;must, however, emphasise that the new financial perspective lacks sufficient funding for this research in particular.
The Green Paper on energy policy focuses more on renewable energy sources.
However, the Commission must act responsibly and accept the fact that some Member States would like to continue developing nuclear energy in the future, for two reasons in particular.
I can tell you that, as a MEP representing the United Kingdom – where gas prices are three times the price of gas in the Netherlands and where factories have been warned that they may have to close for a while due to gas shortages.
The single European energy market does not work.
The answer is not to retract into narrow nationalism, but to cooperate and make the system work better.
Since the encouraging noises that we heard in Hampton Court, I am afraid we have seen some disappointing new moves from the Member States: their continuing failure to implement current existing legislation in this field; price-fixing in the energy market; new protectionism and the establishment of new national champions.
Our first initial reaction must be one of disappointment: there are no new targets and no concrete proposals to establish a common energy policy.
A potential attacker when eager to use energy as a weapon may be stopped only by the knowledge that his move brings no political gains and only drawbacks for himself, while the targeted state is immediately assisted and compensated by actions of communal solidarity of the Union.
The resolution omits this.
As we are now debating security versus insecurity, there is also the real environmental insecurity related with building a pipeline and supplying the West in such a vulnerable way as via the bottom of the Baltic Sea.
Only then will Europe have the reason to use the word solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in relation to our common European task where energy policy is concerned, there are two things that are important to define and that I think we have to clarify.
Through common networks we can reduce our vulnerability and, at the same time, have the opportunity of obtaining access to safe and cheap electricity.
Such solidarity will then become a reality and not just a set of political objectives.
In foreign policy and trade policy, any cooperation with Russia must be based on clear and transparent conditions governing trade and distribution.
The EU must support a policy that leads to Russia undertaking to deliver energy sources under secure conditions to each individual Member State.
There is no real security of supply, and there is no guarantee that our current energy supplies are sustainable in climate terms.
I find it regrettable that the German Chancellor, Mrs&#160;Merkel, could not say so in her speech this morning because we are in a coalition with the social democrats, but I am pleased that the social democrats here in the European Parliament are beginning to reconsider; perhaps in a year's time Mrs&#160;Merkel will be able to defend nuclear power on behalf of the entire Federal Government.
I would therefore point once again to this House’s demand for a directive on heating and cooling.
I support this resolution because it contains these demands and because it encourages the Commission and the Council to move more quickly on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, in order to create a common energy policy the Commission must first of all bring to completion the liberalisation of the gas and electricity market.
The Commission must combat all measures designed to block the free circulation of capital, avoiding all forms of distortion of competition caused by governments’ protectionist support of ‘national champions’; your own credibility depends on it, Mr&#160;Piebalgs.
Energy, as is well known, is both a production factor and a consumer good, and both are essential for the development of our economy and for maintaining high standards of living.
The common energy policy, together with a common foreign policy, are the tools with which to achieve these goals in our enlarged Europe.
As the recent Green Paper on energy policy tells us, unless we can make our domestic energy more competitive in the next couple of decades, 70% of the Union’s energy requirements will have to be met by imported products, compared to a figure of only 50% today.
In Ireland, we have gone from 65% dependency on imported energy in 1990 to over 90% dependency today, and rising.
Our indigenous fossil fuel supplies – peat and natural gas – have been rapidly depleting since 1995, while record economic and industrial growth has pushed up demand.
While the energy mix must continue to remain a Member State competence, in a single market, an attack on one is an attack on all in energy terms.
Solidarity within the EU will be vital in securing equitably distributed supplies from outside our borders, through the completion of a competitive, integrated, internal energy market.
By increasing energy efficiency measures alone by 2020, we can reduce demand by over 20%.
Let us act now and keep energy security at the top of the political agenda in peacetime. &#160;&#160; – Energy is fundamental to our activities, and is central to our success in the implementation of the policies we have set out.
Our answers to these questions must be a realistic assessment of the contribution of primary energy sources in the overall European energy mix, and an honest evaluation of the effectiveness of existing technologies and the potential of new, evolving technologies, and the natural resources of the Member States must also be considered.
Right now nuclear energy produces no greenhouse gas emissions, it allows us to import uranium from a variety of countries, including those that are politically stable, and it is for this very reason that it enjoys a stable and competitive price.
I do not have the time to respond to everything that has been said – and some very important things have been – but I would just like to mention a few points by way of conclusion.
Mr&#160;Rübig was quite right to say that a more comprehensive debate is needed on this problem and that all fields of activity in the European Union must concern themselves with energy.
I think he was the first Commissioner we worked closely with, and I am very grateful to him for that.
However, the Member States also need to get involved, because only a joint effort will bring us to our goal of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability, which must be the main focus points of European energy policy.
I would like to refer you, first of all, to the debate ten days ago in Strasbourg, where I, on behalf of the Council, along with the Commissioner responsible for competition, mentioned very clearly that we are very much in favour, and that we need to maintain the rules of competition, especially in the field of energy.
I would like to mention a small paragraph on the energy policy for Europe.
The paragraph dealing with exactly what you asked about points out that in fulfilling its main objectives, the energy policy for Europe should ensure transparency and non-discriminatory markets; be consistent with competition rules; be consistent with public service obligations and fully respect Member States’ sovereignty over primary energy sources and choice of energy mix.
The Austrian Presidency is very committed, and very ambitious.
In the situation we are currently facing, we would usually look to history for courageous decisions which have been taken on energy policy.
Neither OPEC nor Russia hold the ace in our poker game.
I believe that, in the current challenge, the most competitive advantage will be that part of the world will not only be energy-efficient, but will also be capable of managing demand.
Solidarity is extremely important.
However, we should all understand that solidarity imposes some ‘homework’ on us to prepare for this, and that there is a price to pay.
We should believe that, for example, the power bridge between Lithuania and Poland is not only a commercial issue, but also one of solidarity.
I heard a lot of sceptical remarks in relation to markets.
The price of oil is actually stimulating development.
The strategic EU energy review will provide for a very competent debate and for the right decisions to be made.
The market will then provide what is asked for.
The debate is closed.
The implementation of these diverse resources can be particularly well demonstrated in our Africa policy.
Today's debate on the European Union's involvement in the Democratic Republic of Congo is a particularly good example.
However, we must also not forget about other activities in this connection, such as the action to support the African Union's AMIS II peacekeeping forces in Darfur.
The comprehensive Africa strategy adopted by the European Council at the end of last year, the 'Common Position concerning conflict prevention, management and resolution in Africa' and the 'ESDP Action Plan supporting peace and security in Africa' provide the European Union with clear guidance: the commitment made in these documents to peace and security as an absolute necessity for the development of Africa logically leads to a commitment to help resolve the conflicts in Africa by strengthening African crisis management capabilities, including with funds from the 'Peace Facility for Africa' and by means of appropriate operations as part of the European security and defence policy.
The European Union's involvement in the Democratic Republic of Congo reflects the comprehensive nature of these European ambitions: the main basis for relations between the European Union and the Democratic Republic of Congo, and thus also for EU assistance to stabilise the country, is formed in the first instance by the Cotonou Agreement and the funds available from the European Development Fund in this connection.
Some of this money is being used to fund initiatives that make a very direct contribution to improving the security situation in Congo, for example by creating humane living spaces for soldiers and their families or by providing modern equipment.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo, it has also become clear that the European security and defence policy can, with relatively meagre resources, make an important contribution to stabilising the country, by means of assistance in reforming its security sector in both the civilian and military sectors.
I am sure I do not need to tell you that the work of the EU Special Representative for the African Great Lakes Region, Aldo Ajello, is extremely important for the stabilisation of the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
First of all, there are four central points that characterise the Council's position regarding an operation to support the United Nations' mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUC).
You are no doubt aware of the fact that the Council has, in the past, made considerable efforts to support the United Nations, and that, as part of the ESDP, the United Nations presence in the region has been strengthened.
I am sure you will agree with me that the European Union, being committed to multilateralism, is duty-bound to make an effective contribution here, as the Member States also wish.
Secondly, both the President of the Democratic Republic of Congo and both of its vice-presidents are in favour of such a supporting action.
Thirdly, the DRC is the largest and most highly populated country in the region.
The European Union has, in the past, already used its extensive range of tools to bring an end to the conflict and to make progress in the peace process.
As you are aware, we sent a military mission back in 2003 to prevent an escalation of the conflict in the East of the country, which was threatening the final negotiations in the peace process and thus the establishment of the transitional government.
In the opinion of the Member States, it is now sensible and necessary to secure this earlier investment in peace in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and to ensure that the peaceful democratic development continues.
The second question is: do we not have other priorities in the immediate vicinity of the European Union, for example in the Balkans, where peace-keeping is our first and most important task?
Stability in Africa is in the interests of the European Union and of its citizens.
It cannot be the task of this kind of intervention to stabilise Congo as a whole – that is a long-term task, and the responsibility of the United Nations.
Above all, however, we need a convincing plan, a plan that is able to convince any troublemakers that it is better to accept the results of the election, and also to encourage the citizens of Congo to exercise their right to vote.
Those are the conditions under which the European Union and we in the European Parliament could agree to such a mission.
Now we need, and as soon as possible, to get answers to the questions that are still outstanding. &#160;&#160; . – The situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo presents us – by which I mean those who in the EU take seriously the 'responsibility to protect' enshrined in the last high-level UN summit in September 2005 – with enormous challenges.
Real and lasting peace in the country is a vital prerequisite for peace in the Great Lakes and in Central Africa as a whole.
In this context, the UN, which has the largest peace-keeping mission in its history in Congo, has called on the EU to help the elections scheduled for 18&#160;June to pass off peacefully.
As far as we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are concerned, this election is something of a crunch moment for Congo.
This intervention should be viewed as one part of a temporary solution to the problem of the country’s internal stability, which will only be resolved when the Congolese army becomes a stabilising factor.
Secondly, the political legitimacy of this mission must be a decisive factor in its success.
Accordingly, it must be a genuinely European mission, and as such we welcome the news of the solid participation of various Member States led by Germany and including my country, Portugal.
The primary objective of the presence of European forces is to make a visible and credible contribution to the stability of the Congolese election process.
The Congolese people are today united in their profound desire for peace and stability and in their aspiration for a democracy that allows a situation of that kind.
A hope was born that at the end of the next stage, which will see a president and a parliament elected this summer, the country will succeed in finally emerging from the chaos and poverty in which it is still submerged.
There is a danger, however, that those who have benefited up to now from this chaos and this poverty will not take kindly to being deprived of their power by the ballot boxes and that they may be tempted, on the one hand, to use terror tactics to prevent a lawful election and, on the other, to use force to challenge the election results.
In these conditions, and in order to increase the security of forthcoming elections, the UN has sought the help of the European Union, as you mentioned.
Since UN Under-Secretary-General Guéhenno’s letter of 27&#160;December about military engagement in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which fell during the turn of the year holiday period and came as a surprise even to the Security Council, 12 weeks have passed and there are still more questions than answers.
We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are of course in favour of supporting the process of democratisation in Congo.
Officially, it is a question of protecting the integrity of the elections, but something seems to have gone rather wrong in the run-up to the elections.
Only 60 candidates have been nominated for 500 parliamentary seats, and the close of nominations is tomorrow evening, Thursday evening that is.
As one SPD politician from Germany has commented, it is as if 750 soldiers were to land in Europe and claim that would stabilise the whole of Europe.
In military terms this deployment makes no sense at all.
The German defence minister Franz Joseph Jung has not minced his words.
The military is making it increasingly clear that it is not in favour of this deployment.
The motion for a resolution is not limited geographically and the time limit is only expressed in the vaguest terms.
I consider that in recent weeks serious deficits in the European decision-making process have come to light, deficits that remain to be removed.
However, the way in which the EU military operation is taking shape in the Democratic Republic of Congo today is truly strange and odd to say the least.
Figures of a few hundred men have been mentioned, whereas MONUC already has 16&#160;000 men.
There are therefore two possibilities: either the European Union thoroughly fulfils the United Nations’ request by laying down conditions and by investing substantial resources to support MONUC, or it dedicates these resources to the success of the electoral process, to the full involvement of civil society, to respect for human rights and, furthermore, to the control and transparency of the way in which the Democratic Republic of Congo’s so very precious and coveted natural resources are exploited.
It is clear that, for our part, we much prefer this second prospect to one of supporting a military operation that, for the time being, is very limited, has unclear objectives and about which we have little knowledge at present. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is right in our resolution to wind up this debate that we put emphasis on an integrated strategy for the mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo, a clear time-limit for troop deployment, together with an exit strategy, as well as stressing the need for protection for the forces themselves.
These elections are a moment of hope.
The debate is closed.
As the Council is aware, because of the ongoing debate on the budgetisation of the EDF, no provisions relating to the financial framework were included in the revised Cotonou agreement.
Therefore, in my view, President-in-Office, the ACP countries were misled into believing that they should feel secure about future funding under the tenth EDF.
In December, however, the Council in Brussels agreed on EUR&#160;22.682 billion on current prices for the 2008-2013 period.
Past agreements should dictate that both the Council and the Commission should understand that when the Development Committee takes a strong stance, as we have done on the DCCI, we in that committee will maintain a very strong position on our principles.
Once this money is added to the ninth EDF, the figures touted by the Council are comparable only in nominal terms.
When things are finalised, the tenth EDF will have to be ratified and that presents us with enormous concerns when you consider that 25 Member States will have to be part of this ratification process.
We are talking about a binding agreement with the ACP, and I trust that the Council will reflect that in the decisions it takes on the tenth EDF. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Kinnock, I shall try to answer your questions as fully as possible.
I would first like to refer to the agreement of the European Council of December 2005 on the budgetisation of the 10th European Development Fund and on the contribution key for the Member States, a process that was both difficult and drawn-out.
You are of course familiar with the agreement reached, which provides for the future development financing of the ACP states not within the general budget, but within the framework of the 10th European Development Fund.
You know the figures – the European Council agreed on an amount of EUR 22.6 billion.
In this context it is important to mention that as part of that process the ACP countries were given an undertaking that the aid effort would be maintained at the level of the ninth EDF, minus residual appropriations from previous development funds but adjusted for inflation and EU growth and taking account of the impact of enlargement to the ten new Member States.
The Commission’s original proposal – and I hope this will answer your question – was for EUR 24.9&#160;billion, and was based in the ninth EDF including residual appropriations from earlier funds.
This was therefore right and was in accordance with the commitment made to the ACP countries to correct this Commission proposal.
In reality – and I believe that we should also acknowledge this fact – the commitment promised by the EU, that is to say the amount I have already mentioned, represents a considerable real increase in funding compared with the ninth EDF, which as we know has a budget of EUR 13.8&#160;billion.
The 10 new Member States will be taking part in and contributing to an EDF for the first time.
That means that there will not be any additional funding for the 10th EDF when those countries actually accede to the EU.
This is totally in line with procedure followed for earlier rounds of enlargement.
The Council has also made available EUR 18&#160;million for the new Cotonou member Timor-Leste from the ninth EDF, in order to cover EU development aid once Timor-Leste becomes an ACP State, and following the ratification of the Cotonou Agreement for 2007.
The Council is not at present in a position to give any information on the distribution of funds under the 10th EDF, as this will be discussed during the negotiations shortly about to start on the legal bases, that is to say on the finance protocol to the Cotonou Agreement and the internal financial agreements for the 10th EDF.
The Austrian Presidency’s objective is to reach agreement with the ACP countries on the finance protocol at the ACP-EU Council of Ministers on 1&#160;and 2&#160;June 2006, in which I shall be taking part.
These are issues that are still subject to agreement and negotiation.
The Commission proposal on the distribution of funds between the ACP partner countries is currently being discussed between the Commission and the Member States.
Support for ACP countries in implementing the regional economic partnership agreements – I think you also asked about that – is expected to come from the funds earmarked for regional cooperation in the 10th EDF.
Back in January, during the Commission’s discussions with the Austrian Government, the Commissioner responsible, Louis Michel, pressed for swift action to ensure that the current programme under the ninth EDF flows seamlessly into the 10th EDF at the start of 2008.
The Council has made a firm commitment to make more money available for development aid.
This was announced amidst much backslapping at the summits held in July and December 2005.
The Commission calculated that the tenth EDF covering the period 2008-2013 would have a budget of just under EUR 25&#160;billion.
This would represent a backward step in all our efforts to improve coordination of EU development aid.
We are talking about eliminating poverty, about sustainable development and about gradual integration of the ACP countries into the world economy.
I believe that these Commission proposals are along the right lines and represent a first step on the road indicated by Parliament.
Admittedly, the wording was deliberately ambiguous since it was a matter of gaining the agreement of our ACP partners on some political points that were disputed and, I might add, disputable.
Thus, at the European Council in June, the Union and the Member States committed themselves to increasing their official development aid on a regular basis until 2015.
The answer is ‘no’, and the Council cannot claim otherwise.
It is a question, firstly, of the funding of the ‘development’ dimension in the economic partnership agreements currently under negotiation and, secondly, of the new performance criteria set by the Commission in the working document of 13&#160;January for the allocation of EDF funds, criteria that would be added to the traditional ‘needs’ criterion.
I should like to conclude by saying a few words about the budgetisation of the EDF.
This Parliament has expressed its support for the budgetisation on several occasions, since it is a question of the democratic control of the budget allocation.
In saying that, I mean ‘region’ in the sense of NEPAD.
I believe that we are in danger of two things happening: that we will make fools of ourselves by announcing very high figures for very little in terms of achievement and, above all, that there will be a boomerang effect on our tax-paying constituents, who are going to wonder how on earth we can put the sums announced to good use. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the world faces huge challenges: poverty, climate change, serious diseases and armed conflicts.
It is important to remember that the Member States promised to achieve the UN target of increasing aid to 0.7% of EU GDP by 2015 and that it has a medium-term target of increasing it to 0.56% by 2010.
Under the UK Presidency, in various institutional and multilateral forums – the European Council, the G8 Summit, the Millennium Summit, 5&#160;September 2005 – the European Union undertook to increase financial support to achieve the millennium development goals, including through an increase in development aid.
Thinking about the international geopolitical situation as well, I believe that it would be strategically more far-sighted on our part – as the European Union – to now enter into a relationship of mutual political support with the poorest countries, and thus reinforce the EU-ACP partnership. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, which is the biggest donor worldwide, has a duty to honour the commitments it made on several occasions in 2000 when the millennium goals were defined, and recently in the Council and in the G8 meetings held in 2005.
As well as the size of the allocation, in order for our funds to be truly effective in the fight against poverty we must focus fully on transparency, consistency with the other policies of the EU, the criterion of performance by beneficiaries and, above all, the full participation of the governments involved and the coordination of various instruments, both at European level and with regard to the development policies put in place individually by the various Member States with a view to slimming down the bureaucracy which still accounts for too large a part of overall expenditure.
It is vital for the Council to agree to allocate the funds needed to comply with the commitments made and for the Commission, partly on the basis of the recommendations received from the Court of Auditors in September 2005, to undertake to put in place a transparent, efficient and effective system for careful management of the funds. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the question we are debating tonight is very important to the external action of the European Union and to efforts to respond to our political commitment to achieve the Millennium Goals.
We undertook, together with the ACP countries, to implement the Millennium Development Goals and, further to Mr&#160;Cornillet's reference to respect for taxpayers, I want to say that we need to value the implementation and control mechanisms both in our institutions and in the beneficiary states.
This is all the more so at present, because the negotiations between the European Parliament and the Council on the budgetisation for the next seven years have been very intense.
That applies to totally different areas: exchange programmes for students, maintaining biological diversity, and also of course it applies in particular to development programmes, to programmes for eradicating poverty and to sustainable development programmes.
In this debate on the revision of the Cotonou Agreement we are not looking at the financial perspective, which is currently the subject of such intense debate, because the European Development Fund is not part of the general budget.
The European Parliament regrets that the Council is setting the agreed total for the tenth EDF below the level calculated by the Commission.
The exact figures have already been mentioned several times.
The reduction of EUR 2&#160;billion runs counter to the commitments that the Union has entered into in the context of the revision of the Cotonou Agreement, and it ignores all the promises made to substantially increase development aid.
I would like to say, however, that the Council will of course be adhering to the commitments it has made.
The issue of the distribution and allocation of appropriations is also very important, because structural problems also have to be addressed in this context – for example, the issue of residual appropriations has been mentioned.
Lastly, I would like to refer once again to the increase in appropriations associated with Bulgaria and Romania.
The Council has fully adhered to the practice adopted up to now and has included Romania and Bulgaria, which will have acceded by then, in its calculations for the appropriations for the tenth EDF in 2008.
That is the context in which we have proposed briefing Parliament’s Committee on Development following the forthcoming General Affairs and External Relations Council on 11&#160;April, which will be devoted exclusively to development issues.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; I rise today to speak about a great humanitarian tragedy that is currently taking place.
The Spanish Government and the Mauritanian Government have begun to cooperate, but I hope that the European Union, and specifically the Commission and the Council, will adopt measures to help resolve this great human tragedy very soon. &#160;&#160; The expansion and realisation of the Trans-European Network is almost a mainstay as we strive for the goals presented in the European Commission's 2001 White Paper, and as we translate the Lisbon Strategy into reality.
Bearing in mind the proposal on the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 made by the European Council in December, it becomes clear that there will obviously be financial difficulties when evaluating projects.
This raises two questions: firstly, when the irrational criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact will be thrown out; and secondly, whether the Commission has a strategy for mitigating the problems experienced by Portuguese farmers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Britain currently enjoys a tax derogation on red diesel that applies to leisure boating.
That derogation expires in December 2006.
If the derogation is not extended, the price of fuel for motorboats could treble.
Our activities, like those of our electorate, are linked to these media, and the fact that reception of this station has been blocked therefore means that we have been deprived of any contact with our electorate for two months.
We hope that we will be guaranteed our freedoms in the European Parliament, along with other minorities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to express my concern about the conditions in which the Russian authorities keep their prisoners.
The Belarusian elections were still not free this time round.
I am convinced that the elections that will be held this weekend in Ukraine will be democratic, fair and free.
This week, Estonia mourns a person without whom our return to Europe would have been considerably more difficult.
Lennart Meri devoted all of his energy to the struggle against ‘petty-European’ thinking.
We must unequivocally state that fulfilment of the three Copenhagen criteria also offers the vassal states of the Soviet Union the opportunity to become Member States of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – With the decision on the expansion of the Euro zone fast approaching, the criteria for the introduction of the Euro are becoming increasingly politicised.
The head of the European Central Bank has stated that the criteria must be met in the long term, not only during the assessment period.
It is very complex to maintain high rates of economic growth and low inflation.
Furthermore, when determining inflation criteria, we must also take into account the accidental reduction in the price of certain goods in Finland and the Netherlands who have the lowest inflation, and improve the means of determining criteria.
For six years it has been considerably lower than Maastricht's requirements, but in an economy which is emerging so rapidly, keeping prices low is something truly complex.
There is a letter addressed to the President of the European Parliament by the then chairman of the IND-DEM Bureau, Mr&#160;Piotrowski.
We are ready to appeal to the European Court of Justice, and meanwhile those who have used Soviet methods to exclude us from this group, by dismissing us in a way fully reminiscent of Communism, are being investigated by the Court of Auditors for bungling the use of funds, bungling which we and our friends and colleagues in the Polish delegation have always opposed in the name of the principle of transparency.
Lukashenko's regime is responsible for all this, but some still hoped that at least the elections would be honest.
The outcome of yesterday’s trialogue, however, was merely the first step on the road to an agreement, and this step was taken halfway through the Austrian Presidency.
We do not have time for negotiations that drag on for months, particularly as the EU’s citizens cannot comprehend why it is so difficult to reach an agreement if we are all working towards the same goal, namely balanced development in the interest of all Member States.
A compromise must be reached as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, next week in Cyprus is the commemoration day for those who lost their lives in the 1955 popular uprising against British colonial rule.
Hundreds of civilians, including women and children, were killed or executed by the British Army during the four-year freedom struggle which ended in 1959, after Britain was forced to grant Cyprus a form of independence.
I know this is a sore point, but I hope you will agree with me that it is totally unacceptable for Britain, an EU Member State, to occupy part of another EU Member State, Cyprus. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Union has sided with the bank UniCredito Italiano in its dispute with the Polish Government.
The Strasbourg session of the European Parliament is always a serious ordeal for the Members of the European Parliament.
It is quite interesting that passengers travelling to Afghanistan must only go through security checks once, while those travelling to the capitals of new Member States, such as Tallinn, Riga, Vilnius, Warsaw, Prague, Bratislava, Budapest and Ljubljana must go through two security checks.
We cannot support terrorist organisations such as Hamas, which has now come to power in the Palestinian autonomous zone.
I therefore use this forum tonight to call on the UK Government to release sufficient funds to enable this essential work to be done, otherwise the implementation of the Nitrates Directive will be impossible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 19&#160;February 2006, a small group of young Maltese members of Moviment Graffitti organised a peaceful protest in favour of peace and against war.
The report under debate today is incomplete, and in the draft, in fact, there were some points where the effects of liberalisation on the economies of developing countries were called into question.
Various econometric studies, a report by Christian Aid and the study entitled ‘Winners and losers’ by Sandra Polanski, published last week, have shown that many developing countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, would be experiencing better conditions today if we had not introduced unbridled liberalisation measures.
Free trade will produce modest gains at the global level, partly because the adjustment costs which countries have to deal with when they undertake the liberalisation process promoted by the industrialised countries can be greater than the benefits.
These principles are almost present in the report, partly because these are the requests of the ACP countries, and it is those countries that are putting them forward.
Thinking about development solely in terms of increasing a country’s gross domestic product is very reductionist.
The European Parliament cannot wish to remove these values.
We are at a crucial point in the struggle against poverty and we must meet the objectives that we have set ourselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs Morgantini, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission, I should like to congratulate the Committee on Development, and in particular its Chairman, Mrs&#160;Morgantini, for this report which makes development central to the negotiations on Economic Partnership Agreements, the EPAs.
Firstly, I am delighted that we share the same opinions on very many points, such as the importance of the dialogue with civil society and the national parliaments of the ACP countries, the objective of regional integration and economic governance, the role of investment and the diversification of exports.
I find, in this report, opinions that I myself have often put forward to our partners, who have a vital role to play in this respect.
This approach manifests itself, for example, in the way in which trade liberalisation is biased in favour of the ACP countries, in flexibility in relation to the opening of their markets, in the extent to which we cover their products and in the necessary safeguard mechanisms.
These are all principles that were clearly stated in our negotiating positions from the first day and that the Commissioner, Mr&#160;Mandelson, has himself confirmed on several occasions.
For example, the report questions how coherent our position concerning the EPAs is with the commitments made in the Cotonou Agreement or in the recent declaration on the European Union’s development policy.
There should be no misunderstandings between us, because Parliament’s support is obviously more necessary to the Commission than ever in the delicate phase of negotiations that we are in and that should come to an end in a little more than a year.
Of course, this compatibility is imperative if we wish to ensure the stability of the EPAs, as of all our trade agreements, and the Commission must attend to this.
Some proposals have been made along these lines, but I think we should have no illusions and that we must be aware of the objective limitations and difficulties of this approach.
Above all, however, one must not forget that the real reason for the EPAs’ existence is not the WTO but the urgent need, amply demonstrated and confirmed in the Cotonou Agreement, to make better use of trade as a driving force for economic growth in the ACP countries, as it has been for so many other countries, including developing countries.
In my opinion the success of the Economic Partnership Agreements will depend on three key factors, all of equal importance.
Firstly, negotiations genuinely targeting the development of our partners, which is, as I have said, our only strategic objective.
Secondly, the commitment of our ACP partners to establishing a statutory framework that favours investment.
Thirdly, the support that the European Union, but also its Member States and other sponsors, will be able to offer to the countries concerned in order to prepare for, and bring about, the implementation of the EPAs.
I understand the attention that our partners and Parliament are giving to this last point.
From my very first day at the Commission, I promised to ensure that the necessary answers would be found.
We have succeeded – in obtaining the commitment of Member States to progressively doubling their aid for development, and I thank Parliament for its support without which this would not have been possible.
We have succeeded in reaching an agreement on strengthening the cooperation between the Commission and the Member States within the framework of the European consensus adopted in December and confirming the priority to be given to the effectiveness of aid.
The Economic Partnership Agreements are part of this action and represent an important part of it.
This will be offset partly by the expected economic growth and partly by the rationalisation of taxation systems, which has already been initiated in several countries, often with our support.
I know that there are some who would be in favour of a debate on the possible alternatives to the EPAs.
Firstly, an in-depth debate already took place when it was agreed, at Cotonou, that EPAs would offer the greatest benefits in terms of development, of market access compatible with the WTO and of support for good governance and regional integration.
Secondly, all the ACP countries are continuing to negotiate EPAs.
Finally, countries benefit from the effects of having access to markets forming part of the system of generalised preferences and of the ‘everything but arms’ initiative.
We know, in the meantime, after virtually half a century of unilateral preference under the Lomé Convention and the Cotonou Agreement, that this preferential access to our market is not in itself enough to meet the needs of our partners.
In conclusion, the report conveys our common position on a wide range of subjects.
In order to set so many countries on the road to development and growth, I am ready to continue working with you on the objectives and challenges that we and our partners face in this complex, ambitious and vital project constituted by the EPAs.
You know that I am doing the rounds of all the regional organisations and that, on each visit, I hear anxieties expressed by all those involved in development.
I am acutely aware of the very real questions that you are raising and I can tell you openly that investigations and discussions are making good progress, and creative thinking too, in order to develop a range of ways to give better support to the partner countries and to respond more directly to their concerns.
The present system may continue to apply until 2008, and must have been adapted by then at the latest.
There are those in the House who reject EPA’s from the outset; they do not believe that a certain measure of trade liberalisation, in whatever form, can make any contribution to the development of poor countries.
My group, though, is convinced that trade can indeed play a part, certainly that the liberalisation of trade among the ACP countries can do so.
So, as far as we are concerned, let there be EPAs, if they stand a chance of helping to fight poverty.
The PPE-DE Group wants sufficient support measures (for example technical assistance, capacity-building and reforms in such areas as customs and taxation) and it wants to see cooperation on a regional basis promoted between the ACP countries.
The negotiations have been in progress since 2002 and still no draft texts have been made available to us.
The economic partnership agreements are very complex and complicated for the ACP and are the most complex and complicated negotiations they have ever engaged in.
I suspect that they also present the Commission with certain difficulties, if not only because of the tensions which naturally exist between DG Development’s concerns and priorities and DG Trade’s concerns and priorities, which are very different.
We know from our own experience in this Parliament that there is not always that necessary coherence between our objectives.
My impression is that there are concerns that are common to all the regional negotiations and I am following them very closely.
The ACP regions are far more interested in addressing supply side constraints and the link between EPAs and development support.
Market access remains absolutely central as an issue.
The proposed opening of the economies of the ACP countries – most of which are least-developed countries – is a major concern.
To be competitive and to market their goods, there needs to be substantial investment in their ability to do so.
All these are major priorities for the ACP.
The central Africa negotiations are portrayed as a model of these regional negotiations.
Finally, I should like to draw attention to the Cape Town Declaration of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2002.
There can be no question of forcing ACP countries to open up their markets to European goods until their own domestic markets are much more firmly established.
Of the amendments tabled for Plenary, the ALDE Group will be supporting those which underline that the pace of market opening should be driven by the ACP and that there is scope for the EU to work much more closely with ACP partners in world trade negotiations.
Together, the ACP countries and the EU form a substantial block.
The ALDE Group will also be supporting those amendments from the PPE-DE Group which offer improved wording and avoid overly restrictive definitions of, for instance, decent working benchmarks.
The essential point at every stage of the EPA negotiating process is to ensure that the outcome works in favour of development.
We cannot therefore demand that these countries just go ahead and open up 90% of their markets in return for the EU opening up its own markets as a kind of payment.
It would be very unfortunate if we were entitled to prevent the ACP countries from selling us textiles and agricultural products just because we had not been skilful enough to adapt to the changed conditions of competition in a globalised world.
The fact is that we too were allowed to protect our own markets when our economies were still developing.
The criticism that I am about to make is clearly aimed at the appearance of a representative of DG Trade at a hearing of the Committee on Development.
Let me be quite clear about this: we do not want negotiations that reflect the style and behaviour of a colonial power; we believe that the decision-making sovereignty of our partners in the ACP countries must be preserved.
This sovereignty should be encouraged by investment in trade infrastructure, and, of course, by means of support for national strategies to combat poverty, which is fully in line with the principle of subsidiarity so prized in the EU.
Given the widespread poverty in many parts of the ACP countries, that is simply not acceptable.
In a society that is now dominated by a globalised economic market, the Community institutions have a duty to encourage development cooperation, in a world in which three billion human beings live on less than two dollars a day and over a billion survive on one dollar.
For this shared aim, we must search for suitable means which can lead both to an improvement in the economic situation of developing countries and to gradual and increasing integration into the world market.
We ought always to remember that in order to be successful and have a positive impact on the social fabric of developing countries, effective integration and economic growth must necessarily be accompanied by an improvement in people’s general living conditions.
On this issue a precise, specific and consistent commitment is needed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I wish to thank my colleague, Mrs&#160;Martens, for her excellent speech and the amendments that she has proposed.
WTO rules force us into separate Economic Partnership Agreements, because the trade relationship based on the Lomé Conventions and Cotonou Agreement is non-reciprocal and therefore inconsistent with the WTO’s enabling clause.
Under the proposed EPAs, the trade relationship between the EU and the different ACP regional groups will be reciprocal.
Under Article XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), countries at different levels of development can enter into a reciprocal free trade agreement provided that the liberalisation of essentially all trade occurs within a reasonable length of time.
It is clear that implementing a reciprocal free trade agreement will be a major challenge for the ACP countries, whose level of development varies a good deal.
Reciprocity represents a major shift in the EU’s approach to development and trade policies with ACP partners.
On the other hand, we know that the support allowed by Lomé and Cotonou did not halt the decline in ACP market share.
The negotiations must be impartial, and no pressure should be put on any party while they are taking place. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank my fellow Member, Mrs&#160;Morgantini, for the excellent report that she has submitted to us today concerning the impact of Economic Partnership Agreements on development.
It advocates the necessity for Community solidarity in the face of regulation that carries the risk of uncontrolled liberalisation.
One essential principle must guide our thinking: development in accordance with, and closely linked to, the Cotonou Agreement.
It is a prime objective in all the negotiations and within the framework of the implementation of EPAs with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries.
Nonetheless, compatibility with the WTO rules must not take precedence over our international commitments to promoting sustainable development and eradicating poverty.
I share the fears of our ACP partners and of many NGOs with regard to the way in which negotiations are now conducted by the Commission and with regard to the logic underlying these negotiations.
This liberalisation of trade between unequal partners, far from promoting development as intended, runs the risk of having devastating effects on the fragile economies of the countries concerned and on their vulnerable populations.
And this at the very moment when, in our speeches, we are claiming to want to help these countries to achieve the Millennium Development Goals which, as we already know, are out of reach.
I believe that if these agreements are conceived gradually and in a concerted manner, within a rational and predictable framework, in order to promote trade and investment in this area, they will represent a real opportunity for the ACP countries, an opportunity both in terms of economic diversification and harmonious regional integration and in terms of real and successful integration within the world economy.
The first of these is the exclusion of the Singapore issues and of essential public services, without neglecting the principle of the right of these countries to use safeguards to defend their sensitive strategic sectors.
The second priority is to respect our commitment to seek out alternative trade systems to EPAs for those countries that request it, as is stipulated in Article 37.6 of the Cotonou Agreement.
These alternatives must be based on the principle of non-reciprocity established in the generalised system of preferences (GSP) as well as on the introduction of a clause establishing special, differentiated treatment at the WTO.
These priorities depend very much on the willingness of the European Union to give its full weight within the WTO to facilitating improvement in the rules in terms of development priorities.
I should like to conclude by saying that, beyond the concern about the European Union’s financial perspectives, we must, on the one hand, keep the promises made by the President of the Commission at Gleneagles concerning aid for trade.
On the other hand, we must envisage new financial commitments to compensate for the cost, to the ACP countries, of the removal of preferences and customs tariffs, strengthen technical support to ACP countries and, finally, ladies and gentlemen, reject the unacceptable reduction in the European Development Fund.
Since, however, I am not convinced that these aims will be achieved quickly, I suggest that, where the reciprocal opening of markets is concerned, the Commission consider, as a token of its goodwill, prolonging the period of transition according to the specific needs of the ACP countries, as defined at the time of the negotiations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I hope that Economic Partnership Agreements will be a workable means of eliminating poverty, and that they will allow us to go from making declarations to something concrete.
As welfare societies and European communities, we want to help fellow human beings who are worse off than ourselves, both in our own countries and elsewhere.
It is true that today, in many Member States of the European Union, there is some debate about what proportion of financing should be channelled into development cooperation.
In Nigeria the cheapest meat is German and English and in Senegal 52&#160;000 tonnes of onions exported in 2005 alone from the Netherlands placed farmers in very serious difficulties.
The EPAs were originally conceived within the framework of the Cotonou agreement, which enshrines the fight against poverty and the struggle for social development, but they have instead become something which promotes not social development but rather greater poverty. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with some of the points that have been made.
In fact, it is possible to make alternative proposals to those who do not wish to negotiate, but, as matters stand at present, they are, as you well know, Mrs Kinnock, all negotiating.
The word was perhaps ill chosen, but starting a debate on the alternatives when they are all already negotiating does not seem very useful to me.
Our experience of 50 years of liberalisation clearly shows that it is not enough and that there is a whole list of other factors to consider.
It is at this level that one can provide the necessary funding for technical or technological upgrading, for technology transfer, for product quality, in short to finance the added value so necessary for access to the market.
I agree with you in recognising that the European Union must not impose diktats.
I am also in agreement with Mrs Martens when she says that the timescale must be realistic.
I completely agree that it is necessary to safeguard access to water, to energy and to a whole range of essential goods.
The work that should have been done was not done.
There is a problem about transparency in his management.
I acknowledge, therefore, what I did, but I never called for the dismissal of anybody and, in any case, I do not have the power to do so.
My starting point is, of course, development and, more specifically, economic development as the driving force for growth.
This integration involves an aspect of commercial liberalisation between them; we support this, and the EPAs support this demand for regional integration.
It is on this aspect that the negotiations will focus, and the support measures will have to make possible, according to the pace that these countries are capable of maintaining, an upgrading that should give them, in the long run, much easier access not only to regional integrated markets but also to the world market.
I am looking for all the creativity of which you are capable and I am completely open on these questions, without any preconceptions.
In any case, I assure you that I am more than ready to continue to look for the best possible solutions for supporting developing countries within the context of the EPAs. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Jo Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on European political parties (2005/2224(INI)) (A6-0042/2006). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation on the financing of the European political parties that we adopted in 2004, has been a resounding success.
The separation between Parliament and its political groups on the one hand and the political parties on the other has been a success.
This was something that the Court of Auditors had been demanding for many years, a demand that this regulation responded to.
In the meantime, 10 party families have registered; they also receive support from the relevant budget line.
To have 10 party families is quite an achievement – before there were only four, so their number has more than doubled.
Our experience with the financing of the political parties has been good.
This does not make the annual budget that we adopt superfluous, but I believe that it would be advisable to ensure that this budget line is preserved and can develop in line with enlargement or an increase in the number of political parties.
All the parties are in favour of identical rights and obligations applying in all the Member States, and that is only possible if there is a single statute.
Madam Vice-President, I would be delighted if the Commission took our proposal on board and used its right of initiative to bring forward a new legislative proposal.
In many countries political foundations exist for that purpose.
We should consider whether in future European elections there should not also be European lists, so that our citizens would virtually have two votes: one for the national or regional list and one for a common European list for the parties, because only with a list of that kind would a common electoral campaign be possible.
Our young people represent our future.
We need to pay special attention to promoting political youth organisations and movements, which represent the future of the parties, and the parties are part of the democratic process.
The report take us a significant step further forward.
It was only three years ago, in 2003, that the regulation governing the political parties at European level was adopted by this House and the Council, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the Commission.
The institutions were thus translating into practice the objective set by the Treaty of Amsterdam and the new legal basis offered by the Treaty of Nice.
As the European Community Treaty acknowledges, political parties at European level are an important factor for integration within the Union.
I have great sympathy for this, as it is also one of the thoughts in our White Paper on communication.
However, there is still a long way to go to connect the European project and the European institutions to the citizens.
I am convinced that not only governments and parliaments, but also political parties and public bodies have to place the issue of Europe at the forefront of public consciousness.
Mr Leinen’s report emphasises that political parties have to work for citizens’ involvement, not only through European elections but in all other aspects of European political life.
There are a number of important issues that are raised in paragraph 12 of the report.
The Commission would welcome a broad and in-depth discussion of these issues.
They are all part of our gradual move towards the real European public sphere.
Political parties are an essential part of the democratic structure of the Union and it is therefore appropriate that they receive some support from the Community budget.
Many of the ideas outlined in the report could be made concrete by an adjustment of the internal rules supplied by Parliament.
As regards other suggestions, which would imply amendments of the regulation covering European political parties or of the Financial Regulation, we have to look at those in a broader context.
As you know, we are currently revising the Financial Regulation and its implementing rules.
Finally, we take note with interest of the idea underlined in paragraph 4 of the report, namely that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should consider the question of a European statute for European political parties, which could go further than the existing regulation.
Among the ideas that the committee should consider is the possibility of better defining rights and obligations for the European parties.
I would like to express here my personal commitment to this important reflection.
I repeat that this is fully in line with our ideas in the White Paper.
This has to do with creating a European political public sphere where we can have debate and where the political parties will play a very important role. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I represent my honourable colleague Mr&#160;López-Istúriz White, who drafted the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I shall make a few comments on that opinion on his behalf and on behalf of my group.
Political parties help to form the will of the people – in the European context, we should say ‘of the peoples’ – and that is why it is essential that the European institutions should establish the prerequisites and create the conditions for the proper functioning of these European parties.
Firstly, it is essential to create a sustainable permanent financial framework that enables parties to obtain long-term funding.
The grants that are currently paid to the European parties do not provide an adequate basis for truly sustainable long-term planning of activities.
I am simply saying that the existing provisions do not let parties plan ahead with a sufficient degree of financial security and that, in these circumstances, changes are eminently desirable.
Mr&#160;Leinen likewise addressed this subject, which also featured in our deliberations in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
We want sustainable long-term planning of party funding; we do not want a situation in which, in the run-up to Christmas, so to speak, money is splashed about because of the pressure to ‘use it or lose it’.
In this context, it is also worth considering whether the 20% limit for transfers from one budgetary item to another should be rethought with a view to making it more flexible.
European parties must have the freedom to respond to changing requirements that might stem, for example, from a crisis in the political arena by restructuring their resources more radically than the present statute permits.
Fourthly, against this background I believe that the statute for European political parties should be amended to enable the European parties to act more effectively for the benefit of the entire population and to perform their role as driving forces in the process of political decision-making.
At the same time, however, I cannot deny that the parties could do more by their own efforts to achieve this aim of bringing Europe closer to the people and involving its citizens in what is happening here in Europe.
The fact is that I do believe that, if we really do want to develop a real European parliamentary democracy, truly European political parties will play an important part in it.
The resolution adopted several years ago in favour of funding parties quite separately from the groups strikes me as a very important step in this direction.
I believe, though, that we are obliged to describe political parties as being, in a sound parliamentary democracy, an important link between the public and the decision-making process and that this is not to be had for free.
To put it another way, we must have the courage to tell the outside world that there is a price to be paid for democracy, that there is nothing abnormal about this, and that it is better that funding should be transparent and from public sources rather than through all manner of dark channels.
I believe that the time has come to make a few improvements, the most structurally important aspect of which will be, without a doubt, that the political parties can plan ahead over greater periods of time instead of having to work with one-year budgets and without any certainty as to what is going to happen the year after that.
I would like to bring to the Commissioner’s attention the fact that this problem does not exist only in political parties.
These adjustments are necessary because of the teething problems that we have discovered in operating the system.
Political parties are not NGOs, they are fulfilling a different role and they are vital for the functioning of our democratic system.
What we have set up and what we are hoping to improve is a system where we have – and the public can see that we have – a clear, transparent and fair system for funding the European level of work of political parties.
This is something that recent events have shown is not always the case at national level.
We should be proud that we are putting in place a sound structure at European level to finance the work of European political parties.
It is that choice which gives life to political debate at European level.
It does one more thing: it shows that the choices we face at European level are really choices of policy, not choices between national viewpoints and national visions.
These are all political decisions, political choices that are highlighted by political parties; they are often hidden away in the Council.
That is essential for our Union to work effectively.
That shows that this system is working.
The Council is, of course, composed on the basis of nationalities.
It is that that will usher in a cross-border, European political debate.
They will then have to be well run, and that means that their specific financial needs will have to be met.
I am glad that this report gives consideration to this, for example by creating the flexibility to carry over funds from one year to the next.
That is why Mr&#160;Leinen’s comment is so important: the European political parties should be able to take part as such in European elections.
I know that some parties allow it, but not all, and I think that it would be a good way of giving our citizens more involvement.
I am a little more sceptical about the proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the statute go so far as to include provisions on the organisation of party congresses and the nomination of candidates.
It is somewhat absurd to see that these parties are sometimes non-profit making associations, although I have every respect for non-profit making organisations.
I believe that Community law must support the emergence of these new legal bodies.
Where the budget is concerned, the proposed distribution over three months at the end of the year is also very important.
I believe that some political parties have already found themselves in a tight corner in December with money unused, and it was up to whoever had the best idea to spend this money in a rush, to make a few pens, a few tee-shirts; in short, things that were not at all in the immediate interest of the political party in question.
The last point is that the European parties are young parties, but not yet parties for young people.
I think that we shall have to make an effort at this level to find a proper legal framework and the funding necessary to enable European political organisations for young people to join in this great debate.
I have made a few amendments to that effect.
Nevertheless, in general terms, this is an excellent report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Madam Vice-President, as a member of the Party of the European Left, which was founded in May&#160;2004, I firmly believe that, as the integration process advances, European political parties can play an important part in ensuring that our continent continues to converge and, above all, that a sense of European identity is able to develop more and more across all our countries.
To a certain extent, therefore, it is still engaged in the process of its own development as a party.
But if I reflect on the heated debates of recent times, and particularly the debate on the crucial issue of the Services Directive, I must conclude that it has demonstrated its readiness and ability to act and has established a profile of its own.
Paragraph 12 of the report calls on all political parties to discuss specific ways in which they can play a more active role in public debates on the future of the European Union, and that is something I wholeheartedly endorse.
There is nothing, of course, to prevent anyone from combining European lists with more personalised campaigning.
Allow me finally to thank Mr&#160;Leinen for his report.
The rules applicable to the political parties discriminate against smaller movements, smaller parties and, for example, national minorities.
These will never be able to achieve the status of European parties and obtain funding for activities that may be identical in every respect to the activities for which the larger political parties - in many cases the smaller groups’ competitors - obtain funding from EU coffers.
The regulation was adopted by majority decision in the Council of Ministers by people who all have financial interests in the outcome of the vote.
It is clearly unlawful discrimination, and there should be equality for Loki as well as for Thor, as we say in Denmark. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this resolution speaks of the gulf between the public and the European institutions.
Their expressions of disdain are clear enough: witness the lamentable turnout in European elections.
I do not see the citizens of Europe out on the streets demanding the right to vote for European political parties, but I do find them demonstrably rejecting an ever-increasingly centralised Europe such as in France and Holland last year.
I thought that maybe Mr Corbett, drawing on the experience of his own party back in the United Kingdom, was going to suggest that we could fund this endeavour by creating an upper House and then selling the membership to the highest bidder, it would not be totally out of place with some of the things that go on in this place. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am a real person who is going to talk about real issues!
I address this to Mr Allister and Mr Bonde.
The difference between the last speakers and the majority of this House is that what we – the majority of this House – want is to build, we want to do things together, we want Europe to move forward, because we believe that Europe provides a good solution to the people’s problems.
It is true that we have made progress over recent years, but not enough.
Because I believe that the political parties at European level may be able to encourage the European debate and prevent any debate on European issues at national level being turned into a debate on domestic issues, which is what we see happening time and time again.
I believe, for example, that if the European Council had heeded Parliament’s request that any referendums on the European Constitution be held on the same day, we would have been able to ensure that European issues were discussed rather than domestic issues.
Looking towards the future, however, Mr President, I believe that, at a time when more and more of us are feeling the need for the provisions of the European Constitution, the European political parties, during this reflection phase — and I am delighted that Vice-President Wallström, who is responsible for these initiatives within the Commission, is here — have to play a very important role.
On 8 and 9 May, we are going to hold the first Interparliamentary Forum here.
I believe that the role of the European political parties is going to be key to uniting the synergies of the Members of the European Parliament and the members of national parliaments and to moving in the direction that the majority of us who believe that the European Constitution is necessary in order to move Europe forward want to see.
I believe that this report by Mr Leinen, whom I would like expressly to congratulate, highlights the difficulties of the Regulation and the formulae we must use in order to overcome them more effectively.
I believe that this would demonstrate that what we want is to build, Mr President, in the face of those who merely want to destroy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like firstly to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which I support fully, and on all the work he has been doing in relation to the European political parties.
In my capacity as Deputy Secretary-General of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I fought hard together with him and some of the Members here today to have it approved.
This Regulation cut the financial and administrative umbilical cord that joined these parties to the political groups in the European Parliament.
This Regulation is just a first step, however, a temporary solution until the adoption of a genuine statute for the European parties and their funding, as laid down in Article 191 of the Union Treaty.
The role of the political parties is essential to bringing the Union closer to the citizens and to providing them with the incentive to participate politically, so that they may feel that they are participants and protagonists in a common political project and destiny.
These parties also provide a basis for the trans-national dimension of the Union’s political process of integration.
Furthermore, we must open up and explore ways to create European political foundations funded from the Union's budget and under this Parliament’s democratic control.
These foundations will be an essential instrument for extending the action of the European political parties and to reinforce the link with the citizens and will play an important role in terms of information and political training.
Because national political parties are clearly failing to respond to the challenge of European integration.
I trust that European political parties, including the representatives of Mr Bonde’s party, will be galvanised during the period of reflection to contribute to a resolution of the crisis, and especially to publish European papers about those fundamental questions concerning the future of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, despite the success of ten European parties that has been described, the democratic legitimacy of, for example, this Parliament has declined in election after election.
The report states that there is a gulf between members of the public and the European institutions, which is true, but the solution to this problem is not financial support for European parties.
Instead, there should, for example, be an increase in democracy through the return of power to the national parliaments.
In order to convince people to accept the rejected Constitution, grants must, in other words, be awarded to European parties.
Any democratic forces may, of course, form parties, but to act on the belief that, through the award of large grants, the public would be induced to accept the draft Constitution would not only be an attempt to obtain acceptance of the Constitution in return for money, but would also be very dubious in democratic terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since the only natural place for political and democratic debate is at national level, coherent parties with a global programme have a place only within Member States.
The democratic deficit of the European Union will only be made good through the representation of national parties having their own particular identity, parties that are accountable to the citizens who know them and understand them.
The European political parties, virtually funded by the European Union, must be able to preserve their independence and not become yet another means of addressing European propaganda and communication to the electors.
Thus, the European political parties must remain simply a means of cooperation between national political parties, an open forum in which each member is respected.
On no account should they reflect, or become the means of conveying, some supposed European public opinion which does not exist and will not exist, because language differences are a fact and the European Union is a means and not an end in itself. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, while cross-border cooperation between political parties in Europe is nothing new, even parties from the same ideological stable often represent different political cultures.
The reasons for the all-too-familiar lack of trust in the EU leaders are manifold: unrealistic promises made at the time of accession of various Member States, over-hasty eastward enlargement of the EU against the will of most of its citizens, a European constitution dictated from above, increased contributions and now the idea of European taxes.
We can only achieve that sense of identity if we give our critical citizenry the opportunity at long last to play a genuine direct part in major decisions such as enlargement and the constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, while none of us has ever claimed to have all the answers, it is indeed depressing to see how the opponents of the EU who have seats in the European Parliament try to crush every measure with which we seek to advance the development of the European Union, with which we try to give our citizens a stake in this project, how they trample underfoot every little seedling we plant instead of nurturing it.
Nobody here believes that political parties are an end in themselves.
There is too little progress for my liking in the development of a European dimension to the political debate, even among the European parties.
One thing is certainly clear in our view, namely that the EU must become more political, more democratic, more transparent and closer to the people.
It will reinforce our efforts to give domestic policies a European dimension instead of renationalising European policies.
Let me say in conclusion that I am fully in favour of European electoral lists to supplement national lists, because a European list will serve to encourage European parties to campaign under a high-profile European leader.
Yes, I favour the candidature of European parties rather than national parties as the basis for the allocation of top-up seats.
Yes, we want European political parties to step up their training activities, to promote their own political foundations and to engage in youth work.
For example, the European Constitution says that, when the Council makes its proposal on the election by this House of the President of the Commission, it must take account of the results of the European elections.
We are now naturally facing a period of reflection and debate.
We must provide the backbone for this debate: this House and the European political parties.
In this case, this report represents a further step, and it is good step. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the careers of the rapporteur, Jo&#160;Leinen, and of the political parties in Europe have followed a very similar pattern over these past decades: having started in a fairly lofty position, they are now plumbing the depths.
Only two per cent of the population of Germany still trust political parties.
In short, sovereignty in our system does not lie with the people but with political parties, whose supremacy is to be consolidated, bolstered and inflated by these prehistoric plans that you are presenting to us.
The future truly belongs to verifiable personalised elections with candidates whose real convictions are immediately discernible: candidates, in other words, who, unlike the rapporteur, do not engage in electoral campaigning within the SPD and, once they have secured a firm place on their party’s list, abandon the electoral campaign and start canvassing support for fanciful European political parties. &#160;&#160; – When Parliament gave the go-ahead, in the January resolution on the period of reflection, for a second debate on the European Constitution, it became clear that Europe was in need of political parties.
They act as a bridge between the citizens and the authorities, as a catalyst for European public opinion and as support for civil society to take action and for broader participation.
This is due either to sheer ignorance of the system or to a lack of self-awareness on the part of European parties.
The Leinen report therefore suggests much more than an accounting reform of the life of Europe's political parties.
It points the way forward for strategic understanding between parties, alongside recognition of their significance for structural solutions to persistent European democratic deficit.
In order to achieve structural solutions, the political market must be speeded up, there must be stronger links between Europe’s political parties and the national parties, and European politics – and the European electoral system – must be made more attractive.
The report also contributes towards a certain European-level party awareness, whereby we – who become organised in an attempt to take responsibility for the world – can understand that these organisations have also acquired a new scale.
As such, what is needed is new political practice and a fresh look at the roles of the institutions, the citizens and the parties. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of his work.
The European political parties are essential to the formation and expression of a genuine European public opinion.
Indeed, it is mainly to them that the difficult task of working for effective participation for citizens falls, and that is not only every five years at the time of the European elections, but daily and in every aspect of European political life.
Mr&#160;Leinen’s report puts forward suggestions that would make it possible to give the European parties the means necessary to achieve this objective.
I particularly welcome the following points: the improvement in the rules on funding through the introduction of greater clarity, flexibility, independence and financial security in the medium term; vital support for organisations and movements for young Europeans; finally, better representation of women on the electoral lists, and especially among the elected members. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Article 191 of the Treaty establishing the European Community states that political parties at European level are an important factor for integration within the framework of the European Union.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has achieved much in this respect, and has a great deal of experience in the field.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr Leinen on his superb report and on the exceptional level of competence he has demonstrated. &#160;&#160; Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Leinen for his very responsibly prepared report.
I would like to stress that support for the work of European political parties at EU institution level is particularly relevant now.
And this is why: some political scientists, in Lithuania at least, maintain that political parties have lost their ideological foundations and are becoming similar.
I therefore propose that we endorse the report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, political parties are rooted in the industrial revolution, the creation of nation states and the period following World War II.
Globalisation, with the new challenges to civilisation it entails, and the democratisation of the EU's political system mean that European political parties must play a part in European public life.
They must become true institutions of representative democracy, acting as intermediaries between citizens and the decision-making centres of the EU.
We in the European Union are currently faced with a crisis of the European systems of liberal democracy.
The constitutional crisis in the EU is accompanied by racism and intolerance, prejudice against immigrants and the erection of barriers between the nation states.
The EU must support European political foundations, and promote and strengthen European political organisations and youth movements.
They play an important and crucial role in promoting democratic values such as freedom, tolerance, solidarity and gender equality.
In parallel with this, we require a dialogue with citizens on the future of Europe and, in this context, political parties must play a key role.
Mr Leinen’s report is commendable in its support of European political parties and its recommendation to improve the current situation.
However, Mr Leinen and our political family have been stopped by the PPE-DE Group from mentioning the vital role of European political parties in furthering the priority of gender equality.
I should like to ask my colleagues to reconsider this, especially those in the PPE-DE Group, who voted against an amendment in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
We should not forget that women form the majority of our population.
We also have to mobilise people at European level to allow for a democratic development also at European level.
It is still only embryonic: even if we have succeeded in creating ten European parties, we cannot say that we have succeeded totally.
However, it has helped and it does not contradict that we also have to invest in making sure that the national parties integrate European affairs into their political agenda, discussions and decisions.
This also requires some efforts and promotion from our side, to make sure that the reporting is there as well – for citizens, for democracy, to be able to follow what goes on and to take a position on that.
Those three building blocks are necessary to develop democracy at European level.
European political parties are a very important element.
This can come as a result of that and after that.
However, I think you have created and presented the elements and building blocks necessary to discuss what to do with European political parties.
As many have pointed out, however, there is a link to other organisations as well, and we have to take that into account so that it can be a balanced proposal one day.
I welcome the amendments underlining the importance of promoting equality between men and women, and I would point out – as I see Mrs Gurmai there – I think this is absolutely evident.
It is a choice to give to the European citizens and that is, in the end a matter of democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, may I apologise to Commissioner Wallström for those Members who deliver their speeches but are not present for the debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Klaus-Heiner Lehne, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on European contract law and the revision of the acquis: the way forward (2005/2022(INI)) (A6-0055/2006). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a somewhat heretical remark.
This report is about European civil law.
In simple terms, its aim is to have the Commission try to shape broad areas of European civil law by creating a common frame of reference in a particular field of activity in the first instance in such a way that it will affect the legislation of the Member States and of the European Union in the field of civil law for many generations to come.
This House has, for many years, been monitoring the efforts of the European Commission with regard to a code of European civil law and has expressed its approval and lent its support in numerous resolutions since 1989.
That is also our intention in this proposal for a resolution.
The reason why this stage is critical is that the present efforts will determine whether this work is ultimately crowned with success or whether it falls short of the desired outcome, and this depends very much on the quality of the substance that emerges from these present efforts.
For example, we have the impression that the cooperation between the research groups that drafting the common frame of reference on contract law and the practitioners on the network side is not functioning properly.
We want to ensure that the practical experience brought into this project by the network specialists is considered by the research groups in an appropriate framework.
This is something for which we in the Committee on Legal Affairs are pressing vigorously.
We want to protect consumers, but traders must also have broad scope to conclude contracts with each other, and this scope must not be restricted by excessive red tape.
There is also a need to ensure that what is currently being developed within this frame of reference and will subsequently form a very considerable body of soft law, at least at the European level, and have an impact on all legislation in the field of civil law is not simply created without any involvement on the part of the legislative institutions, namely Parliament and the Council.
Against this background it is important that Parliament is also involved on the substantive side.
Firstly, the Commission should keep Parliament constantly and comprehensively informed of progress in the formulation of the frame of reference and the improvement of the body of Community law and practice relating to consumer protection, and we should have the opportunity to pronounce ourselves at any time within a continuous process.
The second process, for which we have already taken the first organisational steps in this House, is the establishment of a project group comprising the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs of both participating committees, a working party whose purpose would be to keep a close eye on the work of the Commission, the research groups and the network as well as providing political guidance on particular issues of legal policy, such as the issue of the demarcation line between business-to-business and business-to-consumer transactions.
Let me finish by saying that I believe this is the most significant project being undertaken by the European Commission and the other institutions in the course of the present legislative term.
The Commission wholeheartedly welcomes Parliament’s interest in the common frame of reference – CFR – on contract law and in the review of the consumer .
I would stress that the Commission, and Commissioner Kyprianou personally, has clearly and repeatedly stated that it has no intention of producing a European civil code.
If the Commission considers that this toolbox will be of more than internal use for the Commission, such a decision would clearly be a political decision and would need to be taken by the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
The Commission will continue to keep Parliament informed of developments in the most appropriate way.
Despite all this agreement and it being so late in the evening, we are all of the opinion that it is essential to have a debate on this important report.
That means that not only DG Sanco, but also DG Justice and DG Internal Market should be fully involved in the process.
Above all, this project is of practical importance for the internal market, both consumers and businesses alike.
In my own country – which is not known for its support of anything that might even start to resemble a European contract code – an independent survey by a big law firm highlighted the transactional costs of an incoherent contract law in the internal market.
One of the measures envisaged, as the rapporteur pointed out, is the creation of a common frame of reference for Community contractual law.
The in force, which mainly relates to consumer protection, should be improved and a set of common principles should be added to it representing a certain but flexible reference point for citizens and legal practitioners.
Mr&#160;Lehne, the rapporteur, who performed valuable and important work in committee, and who this evening has given us his comments on a provision of historical importance, has tried in his report to delineate a strategic perspective for future activity by the Commission, naturally involving the European Parliament, and strongly calling for its involvement.
This is a process of regulation and knowledge which will be able to go beyond the law in force in order to form a modern code: there was even an idea that we might achieve a uniform code of contractual law, formulated through principles.
I will finish by saying that the process of convergence of private law and in particular European contract law is a reality, driven both by Community law and by the development of comparative analysis studies.
Those of us who are here are probably amongst the few who believe in this objective or in this possibility, but I do not believe that a unified market, a European Union internal market, is possible without a contract law.
When I talk about contract law, that is precisely what I mean: law.
Relations between consumers and companies are of a different legal nature and the current legislations must recognise it.
In any event, I would like to thank Mr Lehne and Mrs&#160;Wallis for the work they have done and also to thank the Commission for persisting in this direction, because I believe that the future of the European Union will have to be shaped by means of a private law, as Mr&#160;Gargani has said, and, in particular, in the most immediate future, by means of an obligatory law in the field of contracts and not by means of mere recommendations. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
