Had the countries of Europe not found a common solution, had there not been an agreement between the European partners, and had there not been the euro, it is highly likely that we would have found ourselves in a disastrous situation today.
The Eurogroup proposals of ten days ago, the European Council's decisions of last Wednesday and the commitments entered into this weekend at the Camp David Summit are a series of successes that reflect a genuine coordination of actions and efforts aimed at carrying out the reforms needed to respond effectively to the problems of the global economy.
The European Council, under your leadership, working side by side with the European Commission and with the European Parliament, has ensured that the European Union played a crucial role regarding the well-being of all our citizens, to whom we are all responsible.
It has often been in times of crisis that the European Union has demonstrated its true strength, thanks to you, Mr Sarkozy, and thanks to the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso.
That is why, before opening this morning's debate, I should like to congratulate you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr President of the Commission.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to come here once again before the European Parliament to report on the work of the Council Presidency at such an important time for Europe.
Firstly, it was the Presidency's wish for the European institutions to be united in the face of all the crises that we have had to manage.
I use the word 'disproportionate' because it was disproportionate to intervene as the Russians did in Georgia. (Applause) However, I use the word 'reaction' because, if that reaction was disproportionate, it is because an entirely inappropriate act had taken place beforehand.
On 12 August, we were in Moscow with Bernard Kouchner for the purposes of achieving a ceasefire.
I am not saying that this was ideal; I am simply saying that, within four days, Europe managed to bring about a ceasefire.
At the beginning of September, Europe obtained a commitment for a return to lines held before the start of the crisis on 8 August.
Some said - and they had reasons for saying it - that dialogue was pointless and that the response to military agression should be a military one.
Europe saw the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Cold War, Europe must not be party to a new cold war that is suffered for no other reason than a lack of composure. (Applause) This was a problem that we overcame with our US allies, who believed that the visit to Moscow was untimely.
We can therefore defend our ideas regarding respect for sovereignty, respect for the integrity of Georgia, human rights and the differences we have with those who lead Russia, but it would have been irresponsible to create the conditions for a conflict that we by no means need.
Naturally I see all the ambiguities, all the shortcomings, all the compromises that had to be made, but in all conscience, I believe that we have achieved everything we could have achieved and, above all, Mr President, that, if Europe had not ensured that the voice of dialogue and the voice of reason were heard, no one else would have done so.
We came very close to a catastrophe but, thanks to Europe - a determined Europe - such a catastrophe did not occur, even though, Mr Pöttering, a great deal of work will of course need to be done to ease tensions in that part of the world.
My second point concerns the crisis, the systemic, unbelievable, improbable financial crisis that began - let us present the true picture - on 15 September, not on 7 August 2007.
On 7 August 2007, a crisis began that was serious and worrying but, dare I say it, normal.
On 15 August 2008, we entered into another crisis, for what happened on 15 August 2008?
At the time we, together with the President of the Commission, tried to put together a common European response, first within the euro zone.
Mr President, you have spoken about this; whether people are for or against, the fact remains that, in the euro zone, we have the same bank and the same currency, and therefore the same duty to unite.
We began by proposing a meeting of the four European countries who are members of the G8.
It is not an insult to anyone to say that the influence, for example of the United Kingdom, on the global financial system is greater than that of other countries among the 27.
That extra week enabled us to find a solution together that would allow the banks to resume their work: lending.
We, in the Eurogroup, succeeded in reaching an agreement on a huge plan - EUR 1 800 billion - to allow our financial institutions to get on with their work and to reassure savers and entrepreneurs in Europe.
Next, we went to the European Council, which adopted the same strategy, and, from then on, we were able to calm the markets in Europe.
We had a nice surprise: the Paulson II plan then arrived, and everyone could see that it was largely inspired by the European plan.
However, all this is about crisis management, Mr President, nothing more, nothing less.
It was within this context that, on behalf of Europe, I proposed, at the United Nations General Assembly, at the start of September, that an international summit be held to lay the foundations of a new Bretton Woods, with reference to what took place in the wake of the Second World War so as to establish a new global financial system.
The answer is clearly 'no'. (Applause) There is no use, moreover, in pointing the finger at anybody; we just need to find the ways and means to ensure that this does not happen again.
Moving on, and I could say a lot more, but I should above all like Europe to consider global governance in the 21st century.
The US President and Europe have thus proposed several summits, starting from mid-November, that will focus on a new form of regulation, a new form of global governance.
I hope that Europe will be able to debate this.
I shall have the opportunity to propose a meeting to my partners, Heads of State or Government, to prepare for these summits.
This issue of a radical reform of our capitalist system and of our international system is an issue of equal importance to the European Parliament, which must debate it and which must put forward its ideas.
Mr President, there has been a third issue during this Presidency, which has proven to be extremely difficult: that of the future of the energy and climate package.
When we decided to launch ourselves into the energy and climate package, we did so with an awareness of our responsibilities towards our children and towards the future of our planet.
Thus, it is not simply a question of Europe's failing to take responsibility for itself, it is a question of failing to take responsibility for the entire world where the environment is concerned.
There are some economies that are 95% dependant upon coal.
We are therefore going to have to find ways and means to be flexible, while respecting the two red lines I proposed to the Council: compliance with the objectives and compliance with the timetable.
Furthermore, while we have lifted the visa requirement among ourselves, it is nonetheless only right that countries whose citizens do not need visas to go one from one country to another have the same mindset when it comes to supporting a European immigration policy.
The first is that the financial crisis has brought with it an economic crisis.
I personally would like to say, being fully aware of the disagreements between certain countries, that I cannot imagine someone explaining to me that, in the face of the financial crisis, we needed a united European response, but that, in the face of the economic crisis, we do not need the same united European response.
This does not mean that we will all do the same thing, but it does at least mean that we have an obligation to talk about matters, an obligation to inform each other, and, on certain issues, an obligation to consult one another.
I would add that I have followed with great interest the American plan for the car industry: USD 25 billion of interest rates at unbeatable prices, to save the three US car manufacturers from bankruptcy.
I should like us to dwell for a minute on this issue in Europe.
This does not mean calling into question the single market.
This does not mean calling into question the principle of competition.
This does not mean calling into question the principle of State aid.
What it does mean is that Europe needs to provide a united response and a response that is not naïve when faced with competition from the world's other major regions.
I do not know whether it is a sigh of relief because I am concluding my speech, or whether it is because the other subjects were less important.
The institutions are not the only subject in Europe, and it would be very wrong to devote ourselves too much to this issue, to the exclusion of everything else.
The institutions are an issue, however.
I should like to express my firm belief that the crisis calls for a reform of the European institutions.
The crisis implies that Europe can provide as powerful and as swift a response as any other world force, such as the United States, was able to provide faced with the tragedy represented by the financial crisis.
Therefore, together with President Barroso, we shall have to create a road map for December to see how to respond to the Irish question.
I should also like to say one last thing, which is that the euro zone cannot continue without a clearly identified economic government.
I was amazed to discover, when I called for this meeting, that this was the first time such a meeting had taken place since the euro was created.
The effort that consisted, Commissioner Almunia, in electing a president of the ministers of finance was beneficial and I was involved in the decision, as I myself was a minister of finance at the time.
However, I should like to say one thing: when the crisis assumes proportions such as we have seen, a meeting of the ministers of finance alone is no match for the seriousness of the crisis.
I should simply like to say, by way of conclusion, that the world needs a Europe with a strong voice.
I should like to say to you all that it has been very useful for the Presidency to feel, aside from the differences, the solidarity of a European Parliament that had, from the outset, analysed the seriousness of the crisis and that was willing - and may you be commended for it - to go beyond our different tendencies in order to create the conditions for Europe to unite.
It ruled out the risk of measures taken on an ad hoc, uncoordinated basis, in order to arrive at a common position aimed at restoring the stability of Europe's financial system.
I am also proud of the contribution made by the Commission, which - as President Sarkozy said - has always worked hand in hand with the French Presidency and, furthermore, has always stressed that only a European response could have an impact at the required level.
This impetus that we observed at the European Council and that has moreover enabled us to adopt a very important pact on immigration, must also guide us when it comes to managing the European agenda ahead of the European Council in December.
We need, in particular, to develop a road map for the Treaty of Lisbon in order to prepare properly for the 2009 elections.
The Commission will work closely with the Presidency to find solutions that address the concerns of all the Member States.
However, I should like to focus my speech today on what has to be our immediate, primary concern: the European economy.
The Camp David Summit last weekend gave a strong indication of what Europe is capable of achieving when it is united.
Now, however, we have succeeded in having our US partners alongside us, and I believe that we have created the conditions for a fundamental reform of the global financial system.
For this international response we require a genuinely European response.
Europe must shape the international response to international problems.
Our first priority was to play our part, as the Commission, in the rescue of financial institutions in difficulty.
Speed has been essential, and we have responded by accelerating our work.
No area of financial markets will be absent from this review.
One important input for future action will be the results of the high-level group I have set up under Jacques de Larosière to look at cross-border financial supervision in Europe.
The last months have shown that the Bretton Woods institutions have not kept up with the pace of integration of global financial markets.
European Union-United States cooperation will be essential: as you know, the European Union and the United States account for almost 80% of wholesale financial markets.
This is something we can collectively be proud of, and I want to work with this Parliament to make a forceful European contribution to this international debate.
But there is also what we usually call the real economy, and we all know that, day by day, the evidence that we are facing a serious economic slowdown is building.
Neither can we go on with business as usual.
But we also need to look beyond our borders.
Trade has been key to European growth over recent years.
Promoting investment in low-carbon technologies and energy efficiency measures will, at the same time, support our competitiveness, our energy security and our climate change agenda.
It is critically important that, at a time of rising unemployment, we maintain investment in training, we develop new skills and prepare people to take advantage when opportunities return.
In all these areas we need to be intelligent about how we act.
That is what we are preparing, and this is a task I want to tackle together with the European Parliament.
In the financial crisis, Europe is leading the way towards a global solution.
On behalf of my group, I should like to pay tribute in this House to the exemplary work of the French Presidency and of its President, Mr Sarkozy, during these two major crises.
Still on this subject, I welcome the Presidency's initiative to gather together our partners for the purposes of defining a new global economic and financial order.
What we need to ensure is that entrepreneurs, and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, can continue to finance their activities - a source of employment and growth - at reasonable rates.
Our group will support any measures aimed at safeguarding the European solidarity and social market economy model, the great value of which we fully appreciate in times of crisis.
We hope that the December European Council will decide on a road map and on a realistic, but also demanding, timetable to end the crisis.
I would also add that, were the Treaty of Nice to continue to apply in the coming months, it should apply as much to the European Parliament as it does to the European Commission.
The Commission, which will be installed in autumn 2009 and whose president Parliament will invest on 15 July, will comprise fewer commissioners than Member States.
It is only by working on the basis of our social model and by consolidating our social market economy that we will be able to provide credible and sustainable responses for our generations.
We are going to do our utmost within Parliament to ensure that, by the end of the year, we will have a credible vision here too, for the world, and for the future of our children and grandchildren.
We saw the worst President of the United States in living memory flanked by an effective President of the European Union and a President of the European Commission who is on course to see reason on the subject of European internal market policy.
This was indeed a historic moment, and indeed a great opportunity for Europe to take its rightful place in international politics.
You have taken the measures necessary in the crisis, and so our group supports you in this regard.
To ensure that this is the case, we need new rules.
We expect the proposals you have just announced by the end of the year, as we need to act quickly.
If we act quickly, rules will take centre stage: not just rules for banks, but also the necessary rules for hedge funds and for private equity.
We need not only social protection for banks but also, above all, risk protection for ordinary citizens; for, if our plans - and there is no alternative - should fail, it will be above all the ordinary citizens of the European Union, the workers, who have to pay.
I am obliged to Mr Barroso and Mr Sarkozy for affirming that we need more rules, not fewer; we need more supervision, not less.
Therefore I say to you that you will also be on the right track if - and you will have our support in this - you do not allow the climate package, which indeed has the potential to create jobs, and enables sustainable economic management, to be played off against the financial crisis in the current situation.
As Jean-Claude Juncker rightly said, the financial crisis will pass, but the climate crisis, sadly, will remain.
You are right, however, Mr Sarkozy, that this too must be solved on the basis of mutual solidarity of the stronger with the weaker and also of the cooperation of all of us, both here in Parliament and in the Council.
The clear position of the PSE Group remains that, in this crisis, the values on which we have always been prevented from obtaining a majority in this House are now on the agenda.
In paragraph 16 of this document, you should have invited the European Parliament - not just the Commission - to work with you; and recognise that Council and Parliament will decide, not the Council alone.
It is dishonest of some governments to say that the new economic climate makes those agreements unachievable.
In recent weeks the global finance system has stared into an abyss and we need concerted action to pull it back.
While rules are necessary, so are the means to enforce them.
I have made the case for a European financial services authority and it is rumoured that the President-in-Office also favours rigorous supervision at European level.
In August, Europe kept the tanks out of Tbilisi.
If, in December, Europe acts to preserve the planet then we should convince even the most sceptical that we need the Lisbon Treaty. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I would be the last person not to recognise that energy and will are necessary in politics, and it is true that the French Presidency has shown a level of energy and will that has done Europe good.
It began years ago - and a bit of self-criticism from a former finance minister of France, a bit of self-criticism from this Commission which, even a year ago, rejected all European regulation of financial flows, would, all the same, make them more credible in the future... (Applause) It is like being in a dream!
What I have found interesting is that everyone has spoken about a radical reform of capitalism and of the market economy, but that I have not heard today what the grounds are for this radical reform.
It is an environmental market economy and a social market economy that we need, that is to say, we need to call into question the very foundations of our production method, of our lifestyle.
If we do not ask these difficult - very difficult - questions, we will once again be headed for disaster.
That is why, when you say, for example, Mr Sarkozy, that help is needed to revive the car industry, what I do not understand is that, at the same time, there is a desire, by the Germans, to impose rebates for the car industry with regard to CO2, that is to say, in fact, to impose cut-price legislation, and moreover, to give them money.
Yes indeed, Mr Schulz, that is the truth. (Applause) On that basis...
I mean that, when you say 'growth', it is important now to talk about the type of growth and how to obtain it.
To conclude, I should like to say two things.
By that I mean that, when any person, company or bank is going to invest money in a tax haven, that tax haven has to declare to the country of origin the money that has been invested.
This is an important decision that would move us forward.
Lastly, I should still like to speak about the climate package.
You have done so by declaring that a decision like this would be taken by the European Council, which must take it unanimously.
I therefore support your will regarding Europe, your energy regarding Europe, regarding the fact that we need to move forward, and that Europe must be independent, but at the same time, our views still differ considerably, greatly, when it comes to the 'how' issue, to European democracy and to the environmental content of the need for a revival. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to express our full support for what the President has said.
We appreciate the work done by the Presidency over these difficult months and welcome the proposals that have been made.
Nonetheless, we would like to remind the President of the Commission that in making certain assertions, that we may well support, he assumes responsibility for the course taken by certain commissioners, including the Commissioner for Competition, whose remarks on the paraffin issue have clearly not helped to improve security or bring calm on the markets.
Mr Sarkozy's comments strike a chord with those of us who want to see a Europe not with a president that changes every six months, but with a president who can act as a representative of a truly united - not homogenous, but united - Europe able to work as one to identify problems and formulate strategies to combat and above all to resolve them.
Perhaps there is something more we should say.
We should say that the free market does not mean extreme liberalism, and that in today's world a system seeking to base itself on capital must be able to combine social and liberal considerations.
How much more our European Central Bank could have done if we had put into action the suggestion made by yourself, Mr President, even before the start of your mandate, to build a closer relationship between political direction and economic driving forces.
It is impossible to manage the economy without a political vision to indicate the goals to be reached.
I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying how pleased I am that the immigration and asylum pact has been adopted.
At last we have common rules in an area that affects us all and which should see us particularly united.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, never in the history of the European Parliament have we had to react to a multidimensional crisis of such depth and such gravity, and one cannot help but fear that the worst is yet to come.
Firstly, a number of countries of the South, in principle partners of the European Union, are on the brink of the abyss: in addition to the food, environmental and energy crisis, there is the financial crisis.
It is not, for if each of our countries is threatened with a social crisis of unimaginable dimensions, it is because of a development model for which our people are today paying a high price.
Since then, it has been this model that the Commission has fed us with, month after month, and it is this model that pervades our treaties, the case-law of the Court and a number of our policies.
Equally, a Bretton Woods II worthy of the name should aim to introduce collective control of money creation worldwide, that is to say, to replace the false international common currency that is the dollar with a true international common currency designed to serve as a lever to correct the intolerable inequalities that destabilise the world and to contribute to the balanced development of humankind and of the planet.
They are in danger of having a rude awakening before too long, however. (Applause) on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I address my remarks to the President-in-Office of the Council.
You were not acting on behalf of the European Union.
However, if you are proposing that that is the model on which we should decide our foreign affairs in the future - the idea that a permanent president or a permanent foreign minister decides on the hoof what the foreign policy of all of us should be and goes off and does this without reference to national governments and national parliaments - the answer has to be: No, thank you very much indeed.
I have not heard anybody today recognise that this financial crisis is as much as anything else a failure of regulation.
The crisis was predicted, it is true, by a mere handful of economists, such as the Nobel Prize winner, Maurice Allais, and political officials, for the most part from our family of beliefs, including, once again, Jean-Marie Le Pen.
Even your work, Mr Sarkozy, testifies to the maladjustment of the Union: a meeting of 4, not of 27, on Saturday 4 October; a bilateral meeting with Germany only on 11 October; a meeting of only 15 of the Eurogroup's members; a meeting with the US President to convince him to organise yet another meeting theoretically designed to radically reform the entire system, to which were invited, if we have correctly understood, only 6 of the 27 EU Member States, the United States, Japan, Russia, India and China.
Mr Sarkozy, the path to be followed lies elsewhere.
Mr Daul, thank you for your support.
That may be, but you must admit that you are not really talking like a French socialist. (Applause) Quite frankly, in the socialist split, I would choose Mr Schulz, with no regrets and no remorse.
The European ideal cannot - and this is what makes it great - be reduced simply to a question of left and right.
And I should also like to say to you, Mr Schulz, both to you and to your group, that, as President-in-Office of the Council, even though my party loyalty is to the PPE, I have very much appreciated the Socialist Group's sense of responsibility when it has acted to go down certain paths.
Reducing Europe simply to a debate between left and right, even if that debate exists, is a sin against the European compromise, against the European ideal.
I therefore do not think you are renouncing your principles when you support the Presidency, any more than I am renouncing mine when I value the support of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I would add, with regard to your comments concerning Mrs Merkel, that it is my understanding that they have elections in Germany, and I would therefore regard her words as an electoral platform.
Mr Watson, I have the greatest of respect both for you and for your ideas, but even if you can read the small print, apparently without glasses, it seems that you have failed to do so today, because what does the text say?
It refers explicitly to the conclusions of the European Councils of March 2007 and March 2008.
And what do those two Council decisions say?
They say that the climate change package will be adopted by codecision with the European Parliament.
I therefore think that codecision was covered by the references to those two previous Councils.
There was just one thing I wanted to do in October, and that was to try to preserve the consensus within the European Council, because, as you will admit, if I had come to the European Parliament with a European Council decision that basically said that, in any event, we should not reach an agreement before December, you would, quite rightly, have told me 'you have broken with what the Councils decided in 2007 and 2008'.
Moreover, both I and President Barroso said as much to our colleagues in the European Council.
I would also say to you, Mr Cohn-Bendit, that I think that a Commission Presidency, and Council Presidency, that are as committed as they are to defending the energy and climate change package deserve the support of the Greens.
We do not agree on everything, but surely you, the Greens, are not going to fight a Commission Presidency and a Council Presidency that are absolutely committed to adopting the energy and climate change package.
Mr Cohn-Bendit will not hold it against me.
I would also say to you that the environmental bonus on cars has proven this.
The Grenelle Environment, which I hope will be voted for unanimously in France, including by the Socialists, shows that France is strongly committed to this path.
Believe me, it is the only way to prevent the extremists in each of our countries from dominating a subject that deserves intelligence, humanity and firmness.
As sure as I am that capitalism needs to be reformed, I would say to you, Mr Wurtz, that capitalism has never caused as much social, democratic or environmental damage as the collectivist system that you have supported for so many years.
Major ecological disasters, Mr Wurtz - you should listen to Mr Cohn-Bendit when he talks about self-criticism - major ecological disasters have been a feature not of the market economy but of the collectivist system.
Social disasters, Mr Wurtz, have been features of a collectivist system, and the collectivist system sustained the Berlin Wall, millions of people have suffered physically from a loss of liberty.
Mr Farage, I did not have a mandate - that is undeniable - but, quite frankly, neither did the Russian troops when they entered Georgia. (Applause) You are one of those people who, for years, have denounced Europe for a lack of political will.
I would add that, democratically, I, along with Bernard Kouchner, ensured that the European Council validated the decisions that we had taken.
There are two possibilities: either the world is wrong and you are right, or it is the other way round.
In any event, I should like to say this: our analysis of the causes of this crisis clearly shows that there have been regulatory shortcomings, particularly in the United States.
Certain sectors within this market were not regulated, and that is what sparked the crisis.
However, our analysis also shows that the underlying cause of the crisis is undoubtedly linked to certain fundamental imbalances that can be found both in the US economy and in the global economy.
There are fundamental problems here in terms of imbalance in the public debt, the public deficit.
It is true that there were also regulatory problems.
It is true that, for many years now, the European Parliament has been tabling excellent reports on some of these issues, and we are ready to work with you.
On the institutional question, first of all - I think that President Sarkozy has already explained this very clearly, but allow me to say this on behalf of the Commission - we are not conflating respect for well-established decision-making procedures, in particular codecision and the central role played by the European Parliament, with the need for a strong consensus among the Member States on something as important as the climate and energy package.
These two aspects are neither incompatible nor contradictory, but complementary.
I can assure you that, alongside the Presidency, we are working actively and tirelessly to reach an ambitious but balanced compromise with Parliament.
I have to be absolutely straight with you here, and I can tell you that, if it were not for the leadership of President Sarkozy and - I think I can say this - also the contribution of the Commission, we would not have reached a consensus in this European Council to retain the objectives we adopted a year ago.
For my part, you can rest assured that it is in this spirit of consensus - with respect for the different political forces, of course, but, if I may say so, beyond the different party positions - that we, the three institutions, the Commission, Parliament and the Council, will be able to work together to make our Europe stronger. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning it has rightly been stated that the European Union has demonstrated its ability to act in two major crises.
This is mainly due to the President-in-Office of the Council.
Admittedly we should remember that it is a stroke of luck that he is currently the President-in-Office of the Council.
For reasons of restraint we have not yet stated this loudly and clearly, but I believe that it is time to explain that this Parliament is behind the Treaty of Lisbon and it would be a good thing if the Parliament could succeed in putting it into force before the European elections.
Mr Schulz has analysed the financial crisis, discovered the causes in the system and, without further ado, has laid the blame firmly at the door of the Conservatives, Liberals and Christian Democrats.
Mr Schulz, what a simple picture of the world you present, doubtless because of the elections.
You are very well aware that the degree of prosperity here in Europe, which is unheard of throughout large parts of the world, the high levels of social security, the unparalleled levels of environmental protection, the related technological advancement and, not least, the level of personal freedom associated with all these achievements are all based on the social market economy and not on socialist ideas.
I would like to make one comment on the climate change and energy package.
For this reason we would like to state that we will continue our firm commitment to the objectives.
Even our Heads of State or Government have had to turn their hand to plumbing, to plug the incessant burst pipes in an international financial system that is in a state of total collapse.
Our governments have equipped themselves with an IKEA-style kit, a toolbox that should allow each State to cobble together a specific solution for each specific situation.
The Presidency has done what it could, in other words crisis management, as President Sarkozy has stressed here.
For example, the Forum recommended back in 2001 that better coverage should be provided for the risks taken by the banks.
The European summit claimed to be determined to learn lessons from the crisis and to make all those involved in the financial system act more responsibly, including with regard to pay and other inducements.
So, are we going to end up with a new Bretton Woods?
In the meantime, Mr Sarkozy, the real economy is entering into recession.
We need a European regulator who will, at that point, be able to talk to the US regulators, and we must be able to bring an end to tax havens on our own continent if we want our efforts to defend this idea at global level to be credible.
Equally, if we are to face up to the economic and social crisis, we will need a European response.
We need a joint action plan to help our fellow citizens, so that, tomorrow, we can invest in non-relocatable activities - for example, heavy infrastructure or a plan to bring buildings up to environmental standards.
The system proposed by the Commission apportioned the cost of introducing restrictions in a very unequal manner.
It is important to bear in mind that we are hardly setting a good example by being the only ones in the world to introduce such a system, thus weakening the foundations of our own economy.
In addition, the financial crisis must not serve as a pretext for sidelining the situation in Georgia.
We should recall that Russia is maintaining in excess of three times more troops in the disputed areas than were present there on 7 August.
It has therefore abrogated the right to be a partner of the European Union.
On a lighter note and by way of conclusion, the more often you attend sittings of the European Parliament, Mr Sarkozy, the less certain I am as to whether I would rather be listening to you or to your wife.
I have to say, however, that although I sometimes disagree with what you have to say, you certainly liven up the Chamber when you say it.
In order to have a free hand, you need not the Treaty of Lisbon, but a treaty that takes account of the lessons that, together, we are now learning. - (SK) I agree with the conclusions of the European Council that the European Union must strive, along with its international partners, to bring about a complete reform of the financial system.
This situation will linger for at least 10 years and it is ordinary people who will pay for all of the errors.
State aid within the framework of individual countries must not be allowed to distort economic competition, for example through discrimination in favour of branches of those banks which are owned by a central bank in another state of the Union.
I am in favour of a rapid strengthening of the rules governing the activities of rating agencies and their supervision.
I agree with the principle of what Alan Greenspan is now calling the stage of 'irrational exuberance'.
I agree that the markets have failed because regulation has failed and that governments have had to come to the rescue.
Certainly, President Sarkozy's reference to the current system reminds me very much of what General de Gaulle did before the first Bretton Woods failed, before the 'rendition' of Fort Knox when President Nixon decided to unpeg the dollar from gold.
Mr President, has the time not come to decide whether we want to develop Article 105 of the Treaty, which gives greater supervisory powers to the European Central Bank?
I am against total deregulation of the market.
It is a long story, and I do not have time to go into it, but for now one thing is certain: please let us learn from our experience and let us do things together.
The last point is directed at President Sarkozy.
Do not give ordinary people the impression that the European Union is incapable of avoiding a recession that will hit millions and millions of innocent workers.
With regard to Russia, however, let me say that I am not entirely reassured to read, in the Council conclusions, that it has apparently been decided that the negotiations on a new pact or strategic alliance with Russia will continue regardless of what transpires, even if the conclusions of the Council and the Commission are taken into consideration.
I do not find that reassuring at all because although, on the one hand, I am convinced, like you, Mr President, of the need to continue to engage with Russia, I also do not think we should give them the impression - I am sure that you will not do so - that nothing has happened, and that everything will be business as usual.
I am sure that you will be keen, and I ask this now on behalf of my group, to say clearly to Russia, when you go to Moscow for the Summit, that it will certainly not be business as usual and that we are going to be extremely vigilant in this regard. - (PL) Mr President, Robert Gwiazdowski, an expert at the Adam Smith Institute, is on record as having written that Monty Kaczyński's Flying Circus had flown back from Brussels but that it was not at all clear why it had flown there in the first place.
The cost to Polish taxpayers of getting their President to Brussels was around EUR 45 000.
With respect to the fight against climate change, Europe needs to set itself concrete objectives and show its global partners the way.
You have already spoken on this subject, Mr Sarkozy, but we hope that this agreement will be as balanced as possible, because it needs to take account of the economic situations of our countries, which are currently very unstable.
In order to face up to the challenges before it, the European Union now needs the Treaty of Lisbon more than ever.
In recent weeks, we have looked on with pride at a strong political Europe, united in adversity, presenting a determined front to its partners, and listened to on the international stage.
Mr President, first of all, it was entirely natural for Mr Schulz to respond.
Therefore, Mr Pöttering, I withdraw my remark.
Yes, we need the Treaty of Lisbon and, to speak my mind, I will fight to the very last minute of the French Presidency to convince people of the need for Europe to develop institutions for the 21st century.
Mr Nassauer, I take your point that much work is needed on the climate change package.
I am well aware of that, but we must not give up on our ambitions, for I am convinced that it is easier to reach a compromise on a big ambition than on a small one.
Mrs De Sarnez put it very well: we cannot fight against certain practices outside our continent, and yet tolerate them within it.
Mrs De Sarnez, thank you for saying that we have taken the right decisions.
You also mentioned the need for European economic governance and a European economic plan.
I will say it: it is possible to be in favour of a European structural economic policy without favouring an increase in the deficit.
Groupthink, dogmas, habits and conservatism have done a great deal of damage, and I will take the opportunity to say more on that in relation to another subject.
Mr Szymański, I should like to say that I understand full well Poland's problems, particularly the dependence, up to 95%, of its economy on coal, but I think that Poland needs Europe in order to modernise its mining industry and that we can perfectly well reach agreements with Poland on clean coal.
We need Poland, and Poland needs Europe.
You need to give up on the ideal treaty - you know full well that it will never exist.
On the subject of having a 'free hand', Mr de Villiers, my response applies to you, it is the response of a free man, including in French political debate.
And I think that the most important thing for us is to stop waffling, and I think that good compromises can be reached by sincere people who follow through on their ideas and that the problem with European political debate is a lack of ideas, which has affected all of us, all the political groups, as if we were paralysed at the idea of coming up with something new.
On the issue of rating agencies, I think that it is the attitude of the rating agencies that has been the most scandalous part of the crisis.
On the subject of competition, I should like to say to you - to all of you who spoke about competition - that I believe in competition, but I have had enough of people who want to make it an end in itself, when in truth it is simply a means to an end.
I believe in freedom, I believe in free trade, and I believe that we should reject protectionism, but competition must be a means for growth.
Mr García-Margallo, you are right that we need a new Bretton Woods, because, as Mr Daul and Mr Schulz said just now, there is no point holding an international summit if all we are going to do is apply sticking plasters.
To start with, the dictatorship of the US accounting standards has become intolerable.
The question of changing accounting standards, as raised by the President of the Commission, had our full support - it was a matter of urgency.
I should also like, Mr President, to pay tribute to the European Parliament's responsiveness in being able to vote for this change, because we reached unanimity in the codecision procedure with startling speed, which the European Council welcomed.
Mr Rasmussen, could we have avoided the crisis?
The Federal Reserve Bank pursued a monetary policy that involved keeping interest rates extraordinarily low, which made funds available to anyone who wanted to borrow.
I would add that the mutualisation of risks has meant that all our banks behave themselves.
There are 8 000 banks in Europe, 44 of which operate internationally.
I do indeed intend, with President Barroso, to take initiatives to ensure that we, as Europeans, go to the summit with one voice, attempting one more thing, Mr Rasmussen: we need to agree not on the lowest common denominator, but on the highest, because any consensus entails the risk that, in trying to force an artificial agreement, we may scale back our ambitions.
Russia withdrew its troops back over the borders from before the crisis of 8 August.
The decision to postpone it allows us to resume without giving out gold stars that are not deserved.
Mr Wojciechowski, it is not up to the President-in-Office of the Council to decide who should represent Poland.
I am aware of your campaign, your campaign against corruption and for a fully-functioning democracy.
You are absolutely right, but I can tell you that, with President Barroso, we have shown that we can be bold.
Mrs Sudre, thank you, too, for your support.
The worst possible outcome would be if, once the storm had passed, we carried on as if nothing had happened.
I should like to apologise to the other speakers if I have not responded to everybody.
Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, it is clear both from the speeches and now from the applause that you have the support of the European Parliament.
The Commission will be represented by Commissioner Almunia.
We believe that we can put some of those proposals into effect before Christmas, as you asked, but some are technically very delicate.
We will take a decision and will feed into the international debate on all those matters, but I believe it is also important to have technically sound proposals.
I am sure you have noticed that we have made everything that has been agreed with Ecofin - the financial road map - available to you.
Thirty-two legislative measures adopted under codecision or comitology have been adopted in the area of financial services since the beginning of this Commission, of which 19 were under codecision.
That would be most helpful because, in fact, some months ago when we discussed this - and in this area Commissioner McCreevy was in favour of regulation for the notation agencies - the most ambitious proposal that some governments were considering was a code of conduct.
You may say that is all very well and the Commission has the right to do this.
In the very sensitive issues concerning financial markets we cannot have empty announcement effects.
It is very important in this matter to maintain coordination between Parliament, Commission and Council.
It was because analysis of the situation showed that the possibility of achieving them was zero, or close to zero.
Quite frankly, two weeks ago some of our governments were still saying that we did not need a European response.
Let us look at ourselves critically, as we all need to do, but let us try to avoid a simplistic response to a very complex issue.
I have never, never seen a President-in-Office of the Council call into question any political party.
What he said this morning on climate change is extremely important, and he was right to remind Mr Nassauer that now is not the time to abandon our climate change ambitions and to water down the proposals before us. (Applause) There has been a huge lobby in this Parliament and in the Council.
It started long before the financial crisis broke this summer: it started last year.
President Sarkozy asked for the engagement of Parliament.
I do not know why we are even discussing the importance of codecision: there will be no climate change package without the codecision of this Parliament.
The Socialist Group can give you that commitment.
President Sarkozy just reminded us about what happens if you go for the lowest common denominator.
We know that individual countries have problems - and we can talk about them - but we need to have a package that is credible for the international talks, not one based on offsets in other countries because that is not a credible package, and not one which dismantles the emissions trading scheme and destroys the carbon price.
Of course, there is a cost which the Commission has worked out for the package, but I do not want to go back to our citizens in a few years time and say that, because we failed to act here and now on climate change, billions more will need to be found.
We were able to react to the tsunami in Asia, but tomorrow we will discuss a budget, which has been prepared without taking into account the fact that we are experiencing an economic tsunami in Europe.
Madam President, to the President-in-Office, but now in absentia, I would say: you spoke eloquently this morning about the challenge to our economic future, which is rightly at the top of our agenda, but no less rightly and no less eloquently you made it clear at the summit, and again today, that your intention is to maintain the timetable and the targets for tackling climate change.
The climate change package, you said, is so important that we cannot simply lose it under the pretext of a financial crisis.
It was very significant that Chancellor Merkel, despite the real concerns her country and others have, made it clear that Germany spoke out in favour of implementing the climate change targets and finding solutions before the December summit.
Mr Schulz responded to him.
He forgets that French socialism gave Europe François Mitterrand, he forgets that it gave us Jacques Delors... (Applause) ...
The first one is the financial crisis.
The last time we shared the handling of a crisis with the US was when we were to discuss terrorism.
We have voted on the climate change package in the two main committees and, with a large majority, have decided on a line that supports the Commission's proposal.
I would like to emphasise that the European Parliament has already called on the Commission in 2003 to present a proposal on credit rating agencies.
The Commission President is now looking into this area.
I would like to remind Parliament that the person who was regularly responsible for slowing things down at a European level - and I would ask the socialists to tell their Chairman this - was Mr Koch-Weser, who now holds a good position at Deutsche Bank.
However, there is also the issue of tax havens, and, on that subject, I have the impression - though I may have misread it - that, even between the lines, the text is silent.
The President-in-Office of the Council has said that we need to be ambitious and not just follow the lowest common denominator; I would invite him to follow the same line on the issue of tax havens.
I would also invite President Barroso perhaps to enlarge his task force to handle this crisis by including Commissioner Kovács, if he really wants to deal with these issues.
If it takes economic governance seriously, the Commission needs to require the Member States to review their plans in light of the reality of the economic situation that they will need to face up to.
On behalf of the Commission, you need to take the initiative to provide a framework for the way in which the Member States use the nationalisation of the banks to turn them into instruments for the long-term funding of the investment we need... (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Madam President, Mr Jouyet, the European Council devoted part of its conclusions to energy security, but this issue has passed under the radar, and has been overlooked in the debates.
The idea of stepping up our energy diplomacy is fully justified, but what is always missing is the will, on the part of the Member States, to agree on the message we send to third countries and the consistency of our policies at national level in relation to the common interest of the Union.
There is no mention of oil and gas pipeline projects, which are vital if we are to guarantee our energy security, and the fate of Nabucco now seems uncertain, despite it being referred to as a high-priority project.
We also need to learn the lessons of the Georgian crisis with regard to energy security, by establishing an effective system to protect existing infrastructure in transit countries during periods of war or political instability.
In conclusion, I recall the Council's watchwords: responsibility and solidarity.
It now remains for us to take more action, otherwise there is a risk that European external policy on energy security will never get off the page. - (PL) Madam President, as I take the floor in the debate on the European Council conclusions, I should like to refer to two issues.
It is precisely that mechanism that contributes to the emergence of speculative bubbles.
Let us be under no illusion: in order to secure a post-2012 international agreement on climate change at Copenhagen, we will have to make a clear and unambiguous statement through our legislation.
The current international financial liquidity crisis and the economic backdrop has allowed many to grow cautious of setting long-term CO2 targets or of committing industry to achieving the necessary greenhouse gas reductions and thus driving Europe's economy forward towards the low-carbon, sustainable economy which we so desperately need and which, I agree, will spark a third industrial revolution with exciting first-mover advantage for Europe in the whole area of new technologies.
I believe that together we can and will find an effective and workable agreement on the climate and energy package by this December... (The President cut off the speaker.) Madam President, it is interesting to see that financial market supervision has become a Chefsache in the Council.
It is a long-term industry, where building new capacity takes 5, 10 or 15 years and obviously cannot be a short-term answer to short-term challenges of the sort we face.
In the same vein, tackling climate change is a long-term matter, and there is no silver bullet or simple solution.
There are those who were anxious about carbon leakage or the offshoring of European jobs, well before the financial crisis.
I know well the importance of good regulation for making markets function well and for transparency, but let us not kill off the goose that lays the golden egg. - (PL) Thanks to the efforts of the President and Prime Minister of my country, Poland, common sense prevailed at the Brussels Summit, and an appropriate message on the climate package was delivered.
The same thing applies to regulations at a global level.
I also know, Mr Jouyet, that the countries of Europe are divided with respect to Georgia's entry into NATO; myself, I am against it.
Neutrality will guarantee the security of these new democracies, and will help to ensure our own security. - (PL) One of the main issues raised during the Summit was the global financial crisis, in conjunction with the climate change package.
Immediate implementation of the former could further intensify the recession, especially in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe such as Poland, with negative consequences for the entire European economy.
A separate package must therefore be adopted for those countries whose main source of energy is coal.
I should like to say to Mrs McAvan that we completely agree with her that the package should be ambitious, that we hope that, if possible, with Parliament's assistance, we will be able to reach agreement by Christmas, and that we agree that it should not be just any agreement.
We thus fully share your philosophy, and we hope that we will achieve a good balance between competitiveness and sustainable development.
Turning to Mrs Starkevičiūtė, what I wanted to say to her is that it is clear that the financial crisis has already had a major impact.
I believe that the Commission's proposal focuses on growth and sustainable development and that we must not move away from that, but we will return to that during tomorrow's debate.
To Messrs Poignant and Savary I would say, first of all, that I recognise the great contribution made by the French socialists to the debates in the European Parliament and their great contribution to the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and, secondly, that I consider myself to be one of those who is most aware of how much Europe owes to Jacques Delors and François Mitterrand.
We have already said that the duty of care principle should apply here.
The money that has been put in must be used to protect citizens and savers; it is not intended to be given as a gift to the parties who are primarily responsible for the financial crisis, be it in the United States or Europe, because they bet too heavily on speculation.
I endorse what has been said on the need for diversity in the reflection group set up by the Commission.
Mr Saryusz-Wolski is quite right, and makes a very important point: we have not sufficiently highlighted the Council's conclusions, particularly with regard to energy security.
What was done during the last European Council on energy security is an extremely important point.
We also need to give shape to these conclusions by supporting projects to diversify sources of supply, such as those have been mentioned, in particular Nabucco.
Of course, it was, in this way, a certain type of Europe of energy that came into being during the last European Council.
The financial crisis must not make us forget the response we need to make to the environmental crisis, and we must not hide behind the financial crisis.
With regard to what Mrs van den Burg called for, we do indeed need better institutional coordination at supervisor level.
Concerning what Mrs Isler Béguin said, lastly, we know that dealing with the problems in the Caucasus will be a long drawn-out process, and that Europe must also undertake preventive action.
I agree with her that we must also be more forward-thinking regarding the status of these regions and Russia's neighbours.
It is absolutely necessary to coordinate such systems at European level so as not to create problems in certain countries.
A union in Europe designed for the global governance of the monetary and financial system.
That is something that has been repeated here several times, indeed many times, at Council level.
Where a number of Member States are concerned, moreover, it is a new message that must not be forgotten next week.
Secondly, I completely agree - and this is something that the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council said - that, in order to tackle a new phase of better regulation of the financial system at European level, Europe must, for the next few years, play a leadership role at global level where such regulation is concerned.
Furthermore, it is necessary, where this new dimension and this adaptation of the Lisbon Strategy are concerned, to take account of the industrial fabric and, in particular, of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main victims of the lack of credit brought about by the crisis in the banking system.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday 22 October 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The decisions taken as part of the European Council meeting of 15 and 16 October 2008 are of strategic importance to Europe's future.
I would like to reiterate the urgency of developing a common European policy on energy, with the aim of promoting energy security and European unity, as well as of diversifying the energy supply through strong support for strategic projects like the Nabucco pipeline.
Last but not least, I welcome the decision to strengthen the EU's relations with its eastern neighbours, in this case the Republic of Moldova, through signing a new far-reaching cooperation agreement.
Furthermore, the EU needs to continue to be actively involved in Georgia, as well as in resolving all the conflicts in the Black Sea region.
Such a global public agency for assessing States would be very useful in terms of ensuring that global finance and the world economy were operating properly and that, therefore, due social progress was also being made.
The agreement expressed by the European Council on 15 and 16 October is a start, but it is not enough.
We need a single Community policy and new institutional and economic governance to restore the basic balance of the economy in the eurozone.
Europe has a unique and historic opportunity and it must put forward its new economic and social development model, as it had started to do through policies on climate change, energy security, social stability and a sustainable economy.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to welcome the conclusions of the European Council meeting of 15 and 16 October 2008 concerning the need to redefine the European Union's policy on its eastern neighbours, in particular with regard to the Republic of Moldova.
We need to define a clear mandate for negotiating a new agreement on increased cooperation with this country, however with the very clear condition that there will be a need to record evident progress and for the Communist government in Chişinău to scrupulously adhere to democratic standards and the statutory norms of European law, as well as a need to respect the independence of the judicial system and the right of the press to free expression.
But a world conference (a new Bretton Woods!) has to be well prepared.
The team led by Jacques de Larosiere could help a lot in this respect.
In this context, the euro has indisputably been a European success.
It is based on this credibility that we demand that the Council Presidency and the Commission actively involve this House in the reform solutions, which must meet three objectives.
in writing. - (PT) The essential element in this debate has once again been omitted: in other words, there must be a break with existing policies which are the main cause of the current crises.
However, it was interesting yesterday to listen to the great defenders of neoliberalism now admitting that something must change, but only in terms of 'recasting capitalism', as indicated by President Sarkozy.
in writing. - (PT) The European Council has confirmed the measures previously adopted which are intended to rescue financial capital, the backbone of the capitalist system, and ensure 'continued structural reform'.
The 'recasting of capitalism' simply means more capitalism - with all its unhealthy contradictions - more exploitation of workers, more liberalisation and privatisation of public services and more work income transferred to capital, a policy which the Socialist Government in Portugal is faithfully implementing.
in writing. - Given the current exceptional market circumstances there is a need for concrete measures in order to ensure sufficient flexibility in the implementation of the Stability Pact.
The unprecedented events have exposed the limits of the European financial integration system when confronted with a crisis of this magnitude.
We ought to maintain budgetary discipline, but more flexibility should be established to allow for the new members to join the euro zone as soon as possible.
Within the current rules, the financial crisis could indeed prevent new members joining the euro zone as scheduled.
The economic rationality underlying the construction of the European exchange-rate mechanism should be readapted to the current financial circumstances so as to create the conditions for sustainable financial markets in countries acceding to the euro zone.
What is at issue is our future and that of our children.
When you consider what has been done in this House this autumn, Parliament's position cannot be regarded as the outcome of a democratic process.
The amendments that have been tabled are a kind of bluff and we have been manipulated and misled.
The Commission is one guilty party.
in writing. - (RO) The crisis which has occurred between Russia and Georgia, along with the financial crisis, have provided not only theoretical, but also practical, proof of the need to reform European institutions.
European unity, expressed through a single voice, is the only response in situations of this kind.
Financial, energy and political security, as well as the consolidation of the European project's basic values, can only be guaranteed through a close partnership with our neighbours.
The 'Eastern Partnership' initiative adds a new political dimension to relations with our neighbours, supplementing and boosting the projects which are already ongoing in the Black Sea region through promoting an institutionalised framework which helps to update the agreements on more liberal visa controls, create a free trade area and establish strategic partnerships with our eastern neighbours.
The 'Eastern Partnership' needs to include a clear signal, a roadmap for these countries, which opens up the possibility of joining the EU, providing, of course, they reach the required level in every area.
in writing. - (FI) The EU summit discussed how the US economy's very own China Syndrome, that is to say the meltdown of the core of the financial economy on Wall Street, also poisoned the European markets with its radioactivity.
in writing. - (HU) We must not allow Europe to pay the price of the financial crisis and speculation that originated in the United States.
The package adopted by the European Council will hopefully stem the tide of this financial tsunami.
The paramount task of the European Union together with the governments of the Member States must be to do everything possible to alleviate the social and economic effects of the crisis, prevent a long recession and protect investments.
The European Parliament supports the idea of a financial and capital market supervisory authority at European level, previously suggested by the Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány.
