President-in-Office of the Council. - It was agreed at the EU-Africa summit held on 9 December last year in Lisbon to establish a strategic partnership which would encompass all areas and issues of mutual interest.
I can say that the EU-Africa summit established a framework for all the talks on migration management which have been conducted at several conferences between Africa and the European Union.
More precisely, I could mention the further strengthening of FRONTEX.
President-in-Office of the Council. - I should say in response to Mr Moraes' question that the inter-institutional agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management has defined the financial framework for the European Union and the 27 Member States for the period between 2007 and 2013.
In short, after the enlargement in January 2007, there was no need for a reallocation of resources.
You spoke about the wider analysis of structural funding, but you may be aware that, last week, Eurostat published figures which showed which were the richest areas in the European Union and the richest cities.
There is no doubt about that and it can be seen in the 2006 European Commission report entitled 'Enlargement, two years after', which mentions and evaluates the beneficial effects of the enlarged common market and other aspects.
President-in-Office of the Council. - In December 2007, on the basis of comprehensive studies carried out by European institutions as well as social partners, the Committee adopted decisions on eight common principles relating to 'flexicurity'.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Firstly, my response to Mr Pirker.
President-in-Office of the Council. - The process of shaping the forces for the European mission to Chad, which did not go so smoothly, was completed by 11 January this year to the extent that the commander was able to recommend commencement of the operation.
On 28 January the Council confirmed the operation plan, the so-called 'o-plan', and adopted a decision on its commencement.
As we know, the Irish General Patrick Nash is commanding the operation.
The force consists of 3 700 soldiers from 14 Member States.
It backed the African Union and the United Nations' call for the respect of the sovereignty, national unity and territorial integrity of Chad.
I will finish by adding that the Council will closely follow the security situation in Chad and Western Darfur at all levels and also assess the consequences of this situation for the EUFOR mission.
However, what I am concerned about already is that it is a constant topic of discussion whether, in particular, the French army will conduct itself in this mission with neutrality towards the parties in dispute.
I would be interested to know what information you have about this and how you will ensure that the mission remains neutral overall towards all disputing parties.
The Council has noted that some Member States of the European Union and the Commission have recently increased aid to Burma and Burmese refugees in neighbouring countries.
Firstly, the General-Secretary of the KNU was assassinated in his home in Thailand on 14 February.
In addition, the European Union was among the instigators of the United Nations Human Rights Council meeting in Geneva in October 2007, which authorised the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Sérgio Pinheiro, to visit Burma/Myanmar and investigate the violent suppression of the September demonstrations and the alleged killings and disappearances following the events.
As I have mentioned, the announcement of a referendum on the constitution and multi-party elections in 2010 has given some hope. (GA) Mr President, I welcome the response of the President-in-Office of the Council.
As regards that, I would like to ask a question about the new Constitution: is it not true that this document was drafted without the involvement of the leader of the main democratic opposition party, Aung San Suu Kyi?
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mrs McGuinness probably already knows that on 11 December last year the Council and the European Parliament adopted a directive to amend the Television without Frontiers Directive and rename it the Audiovisual Media Services Directive.
Pursuant to this directive, and not later than 19 December 2011 and every three years thereafter, the Commission must prepare a report of the application of the directive and, if necessary, make further proposals for its adaptation, especially in respect of new technological developments.
