The camera was not on me, but on General Morillon and then on Mr Grosch.
Oral explanations of vote - Madam President, I did, in the end, vote for this report because, as a whole, we are all in favour of preserving our environment.
I voted against the directive, as I am utterly convinced that it is extremely dangerous and poses a threat to Europe's development.
It combines the obvious issue of the need to sensibly protect the environment with an utterly hypocritical idea, namely that humans can influence the cyclical changes in our climate.
One kilo of beef produced in Brazil results in six times the carbon dioxide emissions of one kilo of beef produced in Ireland. (PL) Madam President, the European economy is the largest importer of fossil fuels.
An increase in the price of these fuels, due to greater demand and higher extraction costs, may have a significant, negative impact on the quality of life of our citizens and make the European Union's economy less competitive.
Efforts to save energy and introduce clean energy sources, which produce energy at a stable and relatively low price, could counteract this trend.
However, spreading controversial theories and scaring us with information on carbon dioxide has no added value and makes the technical and material process of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and restricting the use of fossil fuels to produce energy, more difficult.
I voted against the report because it is a blueprint for substantial political problems.
Instead of bringing forward ideas that nobody is interested in, we should take care of people and their needs. - Madam President, I supported this report mainly because the paragraphs I had some concern about were either deleted or modified in a way which I felt was appropriate.
Finally I support the idea in this report of a specific year targeted towards providing information and dealing with the issue of climate change in a way which brings people along with us.
There is already good work being done in this area. - Madam President, I voted for this report because I feel, for the first time, that the European Union is in synchronisation with the United States.
President Obama has been elected to office saying that he is going to put the environment first in his programmes.
Even if the United States and the European Union act in concert to limit the emission of carbon, we must consider what will happen if we do not do enough to encourage the emerging India and China to do the same - by transfer of technology and by helping the Chinese and the Indians to find the most modern low-carbon technology that we can export and help them to partner.
Put the Lisbon Treaty to a referendum: Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est. - (CS) Although I have voted for the Fava report, I have fundamental reservations over the title of the directive providing for sanctions against employers of illegally-staying third-country nationals.
I am, of course, not in favour of illegal immigrants coming into our countries and taking the jobs of those who have paid their taxes and paid their way over time, but I think the responsibility here should rest not principally with employers but with the national governments of the individual countries.
Being obliged to examine the applicants' papers might discourage employers from employing foreigners and, as a result, lead to a drop in the employment rate and undermine the labour market. - (NL) I am going to vote in favour of the Fava report, though it is, of course, far from perfect.
After all, it is precisely this impunity that is one of the major draws in this whole issue of illegal immigration.
This will create a sense of foreboding among all employers whenever they have to employ somebody.
In addition, this has nothing at all to do with the European Union.
This piece of legislation should never see the light of day. - (CS) The European Union can now see the first results of the common energy policy.
The ETS auctions will begin in 2015 and the renewable energy programmes have started.
Not only does that cost the taxpayers of Europe an extra EUR 200 million a year, but it emits 192 000 tonnes of CO2 - equivalent to 49 000 hot air balloons.
So it is time for politicians in this Chamber to stop emitting their own hot air over energy efficiency and climate change, cut out the hypocrisy and close down the Strasbourg Parliament. (IT) Madam President, I drive a car, and as a driver I am constantly fed up with all the persecution we face.
Competition is the prime driver of efficiency in any market - energy or whatever - and here we are using a tool - technology - across the European Union to drive an energy efficiency market.
First of all, Guantánamo was set up in order to protect all of our citizens.
I trust those who voted for this madness will stand over it when it all goes wrong. - (CS) Madam President, allow me to explain why I abstained from voting on the resolution concerning the closure of the Guantánamo prison.
Yesterday's discussion showed that everyone welcomes this popular or populist plan of the US President, but that is all we can do.
Therefore I did not vote for the resolution. - (NL) Whilst the resolution on Guantánamo contains a number of elements that confirm the very foundations of the rule of law, I am not happy, of course, with the underlying tenor of this text, namely that the detainees of Guantánamo would be victims of some sort that deserve our sympathy.
We believe that the report offers a significant contribution to the debate, which will lead to an effective international agreement on climate change in Copenhagen in 2009.
However, we cannot support the concept that the European Security Strategy and the European Security and Defence Policy have a role to play in tackling the effects of climate change.
I voted in favour of the Florenz report because I agree with the recommendations made with regard to the future integrated policy on climate change.
At the same time, it emphasises the importance of the EU and other industrialised nations setting, as a group, a medium-term target for cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 25-40% by 2020, as well as a long-term target for cutting emissions by at least 80% by 2050, compared to 1990, while continuing to focus on the target of limiting the rise in the average global temperature to 2ºC above pre-industrial levels, thereby giving a 50% probability of achieving this objective.
The European Union should take the leading role in the battle against climate change and this report is a huge step towards that direction.
The EU must take the necessary firm action to achieve the following objectives by 2050: a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 60% level of renewable energy use and energy efficiency.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Florenz report on the subject '2050: The future begins today - Recommendations for the EU's future integrated policy on climate change' because it presents the European Union, the Member States and their citizens with a number of proposals for meeting ambitious greenhouse gas reduction targets in the European Union.
I would like to stress that the climate change issue requires a cross-cutting approach at all levels of public policy making, and that investment in 'green' technologies is also a requirement of the current economic crisis, in that it will help create more jobs.
I believe the final report by the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, of which I was a member, is a highly positive contribution to the fight against climate change and clearly demonstrates the need to reach international agreement at the Copenhagen conference at the end of the year.
I agree with the report overall, but I voted against the more direct references to the impact of livestock farming on climate change, since I felt they were excessive Agriculture must not be ostracised.
On the other hand, I voted in favour of the references to the problems faced by agriculture as a result of climate change, as I believe that the most severely affected regions should be duly compensated.
Still on the subject of adapting to climate change, I agree that there is an urgent need to implement the new framework directive on soil protection, and that cohesion policy, water protection policy and the Natura 2000 network need to be adapted to cope with the expected impacts.
Lastly, I voted in favour of the references to the need to avoid overusing the Kyoto Protocol flexibility mechanisms, since Europe must actually reduce its emissions if it wants to retain its leading role in international negotiations and secure a global agreement in Copenhagen.
Similarly, the effect of human activities, considered even by this report to be the main cause for climate change, is also questioned by some scientists.
Either way, the 22 chapters of the report provide a good problem summary from the perspective of the majority opinion of experts worldwide.
It states quite correctly that fossil fuels are a finite resource while completely failing to deal with the key question of securing sufficient amounts of energy in the event that by the year 2030 the global consumption does indeed increase by 60 %.
The Florenz report establishes a very detailed list of the actions to be taken to combat climate change and to develop support policies.
However, it suffers from structural weaknesses with regard to the vital and desirable reorientation of the European Union.
in writing. - (SV) There is no doubt that the climate is changing.
That explains why, on a previous occasion, I voted in favour of the proposal to reduce these by 20% by 2020.
The European Parliament's Temporary Committee on Climate Change has now submitted a report on how the EU should act in connection with climate change.
in writing. - I support this report which reinstates the EU's short-term commitment of reducing emissions by 30% by 2020 if there is an international agreement.
It also reinstates the target included in the Bali roadmap, that industrialised countries should reduce emissions by 80% by 2050.
The European Union's adoption of this report proves that it is actively involved in combating the adverse effects triggered by climate change.
The more than 150 recommendations included in this report cover most of the areas where improvements can be made to achieve the European objective of reducing the rise in temperature to 2ºC.
The European Economic Recovery Plan supports the battle against global warming not only by allocating funds for the development of innovative technology, but also by using ways which will boost energy efficiency.
Even though most countries are facing a number of economic and financial problems, particular attention must be focused on halting the adverse effects of climate change.
Clean and renewable energy sources should be the basis of our energy supply, not the dangerous short-term folly of nuclear power.
I give my full backing to the report and I would like to thank you, Mr Florenz, for a detailed report on the European Union's future policy on climate change.
It is terrible that global climate change is influencing and will influence our environment and thereby our health and our society.
Since the decision of Parliament in April to set up the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, the negotiations on assistance in integrating European responses within a global context have been successful.
As Mr Florenz has said, there is more than one way to tackle climate change but we know that it is right to begin with improvements in efficiency and in the management of resources.
In addition, this measure will also help reduce Europe's energy dependency, which is a priority in light of the recent energy crisis Europe experienced.
in writing. - This report tackles key issues relating to climate change, such as a call to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency.
We are currently facing a situation where the effects of climate change and global warming are creeping up on us faster than we had previously imagined.
I voted in favour of this report because it provides a 'roadmap in 12 action points' of the future integrated policy on climate change.
The report emphasises the importance of the EU and other industrialised nations setting, as a group, a medium-term target for cutting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 25-40% by 2020, as well as a long-term target of an 80% cut by 2050, compared to 1990.
In order to achieve these objectives and adapt to climate change, funds amounting to approximately EUR 175 million per annum must be provided at EU level.
The environmental policy must be used as an opportunity for the strategy to adapt to the effects of climate change.
in writing. - (PL) So far, during various legislative periods, thirteen European Parliament resolutions have been tabled on the subject of climate change.
A further problem involves the very idea of an integrated policy for all European countries.
Bearing in mind that the report makes no reference to the specific circumstances of the new Member States or, more importantly, to the efforts they have made since 1989 to reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, there can be no talk of an integrated approach.
I voted for the Florenz Report.
The excellent work of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change set up on 25 April 2007 is visionary and its proposals against climate change deserve to be supported by all those involved in political, economic and social life.
Our priority must therefore be to focus on diversified and efficient energy production and consumption that can reduce our dependency and guarantee the quality of life that we want for everyone, Europeans and non-Europeans alike.
We are therefore faced with a huge scientific challenge, in which the public authorities have a duty to prioritise investment in research and development and also, in particular, insofar as they are market operators themselves, to foster the creation of profitable markets for more energy-efficient products.
in writing. - The targets set by the EU to reach a coordinated reduction are vital if there is to be corresponding change for the better in our environment.
in writing. - The debate on an integrated policy on climate change is vital if we want a 50% cut in carbon emissions by 2050.
This report was drawn up by the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, which was appointed in June 2007.
In order to achieve these objectives, it will also be necessary to take action at local level.
The EU and the industrialised nations should adopt the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by between 25% and 40% by 2020 and, in the long term, aim to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050, in comparison to 1990 levels.
The remaining recommendations contained in the report include partnership and cooperation, in the field of solar energy production, with third countries in the Mediterranean basin, achieving zero net energy consumption in new residential buildings by 2015, and in all new buildings by 2020, with the option of expanding this target in the long term and including renovated buildings.
in writing. - (DE) I have abstained from voting on the climate change report.
It is not possible to produce a balanced report on this basis.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Fava report on the draft directive on sanctions against employers of illegal immigrants.
According to the Commission's figures, between 4.5 and 8 million third-party nationals are living illegally within the European Union and are therefore the favoured targets of unscrupulous employers benefiting from illegal labour.
The majority of these employees work in the agricultural sector and there are countless cases where the conditions that these people have to put up with are inhumane, very often without being paid.
The compromise negotiated with the Council is satisfactory and we can only hope for the rapid implementation of this directive by the Member States in order to put an end to this situation of vulnerability suffered by thousands of people in Europe.
I am afraid that in reality, in countries as lax as France in this regard, all this will not limit the influx of illegal immigration.
It establishes the alarming fact of the increase in illegal immigration in Europe, immigration estimated at between 4.5 and 8 million according to the Commission's own figures, and it specifies the sectors of the economy where illegal labour is most concentrated: construction, agriculture, cleaning, hotels and restaurants.
The second is that it intensifies the fight against moonlighting, in particular by introducing financial and criminal penalties for employers of illegal immigrants.
It is a question of applying the principles of national and European preference and protection as essential conditions for the economic and social recovery of the countries of the European Union.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Claudio Fava's report on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-party nationals.
We must put a stop to the employment of illegal immigrants, both in order to protect them from exploitation and to prevent the economy of the country in question from being damaged.
The most important issue is not to punish the illegal workers from third-party states, but to penalise the employers, who are in a much stronger position.
There are in fact between 4.5 and 8 million illegal immigrants in the European Union working in construction, agriculture, hotels and other sectors.
We must strengthen the fight against illegal immigration by introducing various types of sanctions against the employers of these illegal immigrants at European level.
It is in fact a matter of giving companies a sense of responsibility and thus contributing to the strengthening of the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. - (FR) I am pleased that the European Parliament has today adopted, by a large majority, the draft directive seeking to impose sanctions against employers of illegal immigrants.
The EU still seems to be an eldorado in the eyes of many illegal immigrants; they often find work and a quality of life here which they cannot find in their own country.
It is estimated that there are between 4.5 and 8 million third-country nationals living illegally in the EU, generally finding work in the construction, agriculture, domestic work and hotel sectors.
Unscrupulous employers benefit from these illegal workers who are prepared to work for very poor rates and in dangerous conditions.
In fact, the proposal for a directive and the European Parliament report, which goes in precisely the same direction, intensify the repressive measures against immigrants, methodise their social exclusion and essentially facilitate their even more savage exploitation by capital.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on addressing the challenge of energy efficiency through information and communication technologies (ICTs) because I believe ICTs play a crucial role in improving energy efficiency and may result in an estimated saving of over 50 million tonnes of CO2 each year.
The Member States need to make full use of the potential provided by ICTs in order to meet the targets set by the climate and energy package of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20%, increasing the proportion of energy derived from renewable sources to 20% and achieving a 20% improvement in energy efficiency in the European Union by 2020.
We voted in favour of this report by a Czech Member of this House from our political group because we believe it addresses a subject of the greatest importance: addressing the challenge of energy efficiency through information and communication technologies (ICTs).
Efficiency should be increased by around 40% in the field of energy production and by around 10% in the field of energy distribution.
This will all contribute to a real reduction in CO2 emissions, both in terms of energy units and on a global scale.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on addressing the challenge of energy efficiency through information and communication technologies.
I would argue, in fact, that alongside the target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, we must also undertake to improve energy efficiency by 20% over the same period.
For this reason, I support the motion tabled, which aims to increase awareness, for example through demonstration projects, of the importance of information and communication technologies for improving energy efficiency in the EU economy.
I voted for the European Parliament's motion for a resolution on solving the problem of energy efficiency through information and communications technologies as I firmly believe that these technologies can offer viable solutions to this problem.
in writing. - (PL) The issue of the European Union's energy security has been raised many times in this Parliament, especially by representatives of the new Member States.
The crisis which has, in recent weeks, affected many Member States, has clearly shown how real the danger of having our gas supplies cut off is, and how ill-prepared we are to deal with the consequences.
We must seek to find alternative sources of gas and create a system for saving energy and making our consumption of gas more efficient.
in writing. - The importance of energy efficiency and its contribution to meeting our climate change targets cannot be underestimated.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the return and reintegration of detainees from the Guantánamo detention centre.
It is essential that we are also able to put our own house in order within our own borders and that the European countries that have allowed the CIA to covertly transfer prisoners are in turn made aware of their responsibilities.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Liberal Party's MEPs voted against paragraph 4 of the motion for a resolution on the return and resettlement of the Guantánamo detention facility inmates, as we believe that it is the sovereign right of individual Member States to decide whether to accept inmates from Guantánamo should the US administration so request.
I do not support the idea of EU Member States taking responsibility for these extremely dangerous terrorists.
I therefore voted to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. - I support this resolution which welcomes President Obama's closure of the detention facilities at Guantánamo Bay and his other important and related executive orders; Recalls that the United States must bear the primary responsibility for the closure of these facilities including the future of its inmates; However, calls on EU Member States, in the spirit of providing fair and humane treatment for all and reinforcing international law, to respond positively to any request from the United States to aid the resettlement of Guantánamo Bay inmates within the European Union.
We voted in favour of the European Parliament's joint motion for a resolution on the possibility of receiving Guantánamo inmates who have not been charged with offences, since we believe that EU cooperation is essential to reinforce international law and respect for human rights, and to ensure that Guantánamo inmates receive fair, impartial treatment.
We therefore regard the Portuguese Government's initiative and willingness to collaborate with the US Administration in the process of closing the Guantánamo detention facility as an example to be followed by other Member States, in order to support the United States in resolving this complex problem within a framework of respect for human rights and the rules of international law.
in writing. - (PT) I voted against this joint motion for a resolution.
That does not mean that decisions and requests freely expressed by individuals, namely for asylum in Portugal, should not be considered within a framework of respect for national sovereignty, for the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and for international law.
I am sure that all EU Member States will support such US policies and will answer President Obama's appeal for cooperation, or help in solving the question of released prisoners, if he asks for this.
However, I voted against the resolution article, which urges Member States, 'to be ready to accept Guantánamo prisoners', as I believe this question should be decided independently by each country in the Community.
in writing. - (EL) The Greek Communist Party MEPs voted against the joint motion for a resolution by the political parties in the European Parliament, calling for the immediate release of all detainees arbitrarily arrested and held by the USA at the base in Guantánamo and the immediate and definitive closure of the base which they also illegally maintain on Cuban soil, against the will of the Cuban people and its government.
Rather than this, the resolution calls for a 'fair trial' for anyone the USA considers it has evidence against, calling on the Member States of the EU to accept detainees in their prisons, within the framework of the joint fight against terrorism by the EU and the USA.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted in favour of the European Parliament's joint motion for a resolution on the return and resettlement of the Guantánamo detention facility inmates, because I welcome the acceptance of Guantánamo prisoners by the countries of the EU.
Rather than just cooperating in possibly accepting former Guantánamo inmates - a measure that may be necessary but must take account of a number of limitations - Europe, the United States and the international community must cooperate in seeking a stable and lasting legal solution to the challenge posed by international terrorist combatants.
in writing. - (IT) I voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the return and resettlement of the Guantánamo detention facility inmates.
In particular, I am firmly convinced that the responsibility for the entire process of closing the Guantánamo detention facility and the future of its inmates rests solely and exclusively with the United States of America.
Moreover, I do not agree with the assertion made in the resolution that the responsibility for respect for international law and fundamental rights rests with all democratic countries, particularly the European Union.
in writing. - All EU Member States must play their part in making possible the closure of the Guantánamo Bay prison.
The matter of the return and transfer of the Guantánamo inmates may be a sign of an important shift in US policy in the right direction, namely towards respect for fundamental rights, as well as humanitarian and international law.
There are currently around 242 prisoners held at Guantánamo.
The fight against terrorism is, and remains, a foreign policy priority for both the European Union and the United States.
However, we must strongly emphasise that it must always go hand in hand with respect for fundamental rights and the principles of the rule of law.
