Irish citizens have made their decision and exercised their democratic right; however, this 'no' also calls on us to engage in some constructive self-criticism.
Similar incidents have been observed for some time now in New York, where groups organised by the Chinese Consulate have been attacking Falun Gong believers as well as people demonstrating peacefully in favour of Tibet.
In this European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, it is lamentable and unacceptable that Slovakia is acting in a manner that runs counter to European practice.
A few weeks ago, 70 kilometres from Budapest in the village of Pátka, three vigilantes threw a dozen Molotov cocktails at three houses where Roma people lived.
On 16 April in the village of Fadd in Hungary's Tolna district, unidentified individuals threw Molotov cocktails at two homes.
Despite this, on Friday a demonstration was held by around 150 uniformed individuals proclaiming Nazi principles, and later on a number of unidentified persons wearing hoods again tried to mount an attack in the presence of 100 riot police.
At least 70 crops that contribute significantly to the overall economy depend directly on pollination by the bees.
The UK Government currently provides just GBP 250 000 towards bee research.
We need validation by European referendum, with an opt-out for countries that do not wish to follow that course and, finally, as the President said, we need a very tight timetable - 2009 - otherwise the electoral campaign will become impossible.
The European Union recognised the particular nature of the cooperative movement in 2003 in adopting the Regulation on the Statute for a European Cooperative Society.
I would urge the Commission to take due account of that and thereby earn the gratitude of the 55 million people in Europe employed by cooperatives and the 163 million people who are members of them. (DE) Mr President, last week China demanded an end to the Tibet protests as the condition for further talks with representatives of the Dalai Lama.
May I also refer to our resolution of 10 April, in which we called on all EU politicians not to attend the opening ceremony on 8 August unless the rights of the Tibetans had been guaranteed.
I once more commend that statement of 10 April to everyone. (HU) Mr President, when Pope Benedict XVI spoke to the Hungarian bishops regarding the burdensome legacy of the long era of Communist rule, it was most apposite.
The ghost of this painful era, in which state violence was coupled with militant anti-religious sentiment, was raised by Magda Kósáné Kovács, post-Communist Member of this House, in her most recent intervention here in plenary, in which she sought to defend European values from Pope Benedict, or rather from the Catholic Church.
As a bishop of the Reformed Church, knowing that the Christian churches themselves have helped shape genuine European values in this European Union which has its roots in the Christian Democrat movement, I reject every manifestation of anti-religious ideology and intolerance.
Let us invite Pope Benedict to the European Parliament. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fifty years ago today in Hungary, on 16 June 1958, Imre Nagy, Prime Minister of Hungary's 1956 revolution and struggle for freedom, was sentenced and executed following a summary show trial along with defence minister Pál Maléter and colleagues Miklós Gémes and József Szilágyi; Géza Losonczi, meanwhile, was killed while still in prison.
The reburial Imre Nagy deserved did not take place until 16 June 1989, but by then the Communist regime had come to an end and Hungary was able to rejoin the family of free European nations.
Chee Soon Juan is not a criminal.
We are mindful of the fact that Ireland is one of 27 Member States, but this is not just an Irish problem.
Nonetheless, Italy expelled him on 3 June, in total violation of its commitments.
We must give some thought to whether we should be rewarding those who constantly demand more, or should we instead be sanctioning this kind of behaviour?
In the case of Frontex in Warsaw, Hungary too seemed to be in the running for a while, but did not use its veto.
