I first addressed the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities on 11 July and, on 5 September, I made a statement about the monitoring centre for industrial change.
The second point relates to the new information and communication technologies.
Thirdly and finally, I think the proposal to make implementation of the principle of equal treatment a selection criterion for any Community aid or funding is essential to promoting equality.
It will be held on 27 October.
We will also be organising a Conference on Professional Equality on 24 November, bringing together experts, social partners and company managers, to look at the obstacles in the career paths of women.
I shall not, however, be talking about the Conference on Professional Equality so much as the issues I have put on the agenda for the Ministerial Conference on 27 October.
The three subjects on the agenda for the Ministerial Conference are balanced participation by women and men in decision-making, combining work and family life, and including equality in several structures of the European Union Council of Ministers.
The first issue, women' s participation in decision-making in all areas, shows the serious deficit women still suffer from today in comparison with men.
Perhaps some of you remember the Paris Conference of April 1999, when we reached agreement on a statement, but, with fifteen Ministers, had great difficulty deciding on a plan of action with quantified targets.
Very briefly, a reform of the constitution was adopted on 28 June 1999 in France, with the support of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, and immediately afterwards we began debating a bill on parity, which was adopted on 3 May 2000.
I feel sure that balanced participation of women in political decision-making would produce a genuine renewal of our whole political life.
Such power sharing will bring with it other profound changes in economic, social and cultural life.
The Beijing Platform for Action and the final outcome document of the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Beijing + 5, last June, are along the same lines.
I also want to salute the Commission' s initiative - I think my information is correct, Mrs Diamantopoulou - in taking a decision to have parity between men and women within its committees and groups of experts.
The French Presidency would like to make progress in this matter and hopes to approach its partners with proposals for quantified targets for giving women access to decision-making in all areas, the political arena, which I have already mentioned, but also economic and social sectors.
Initial consultations undertaken by the French Presidency confirm that this is a central concern in all Member States.
A proposal on indicators to measure progress will be put before the Council.
I am thinking of the Evora seminar on maternity and paternity and the resolution on balanced participation by men and women in family life and at work.
Indeed, as I always say in France, ladies and gentlemen, while a law to impose parity in politics is now within the bounds of possibility, it is more difficult to impose parity in daily life, domestic parity, by law.
Let me add that I have also put this item on the agenda of the Conference on Professional Equality of 24 November.
To give you a couple of examples: at the Education Council there is the issue of mobility of men and women students and teachers, because we have recognised that there is major inequality in mobility; and at the Internal Market, Consumption and Tourism Council there is an item on the development of electronic commerce so as to make it accessible to all, both men and women, because we know there is gender inequality in electronic commerce too.
Going beyond the specific issues falling within the scope of my ministry, I want to mention three initiatives, very briefly.
Finally, in a word, the fourth pillar devoted to equal opportunities reinforces the integrated approach to equality through gender mainstreaming and through specific guidelines.
The second initiative I want to mention relates to the social agenda to be submitted to the Nice Summit, next December.
As you know, the draft is the outcome of complex negotiations which were completed on 26 September.
I shall stress our commitment to having the articles relating to gender equality clearly set out in the Charter.
I know I have already used up my speaking time so I shall be very brief, but there are a few things I need to make clear.
The second relates to the principle of non-discrimination, including that based on gender.
Combining work and family life, entitlement to paid maternity leave, rights of a more general scope, such as the right to dignity and the right to respect for their physical and mental integrity, also appear in the Charter.
Any progress we make in one Member State is progress for the other Member States.
If national policies are enriched by Community policies, then Community policies must also be inspired by national experiences.
Those of us who have previously heard her in Parliament know that, with her as President-in-Office of the Council, we have a very committed spokesperson for women' s issues, and that is something we need if our plans are to succeed at all.
All three reports - I shall return to the speech of the President-in-Office of the Council in a moment - call attention to the articles of the Treaty of Amsterdam and say that, in these, we have obtained a new and sound basis for working on the issue of equality in the Commission and that we have also obtained a number of tools for implementing equality in the different Member States in a way we were unable to do before.
We can say that almost all women have worked hard to achieve a better Treaty where equality is concerned, and I therefore think that we can be quietly pleased with the fifteen men who sat and adopted the Treaty of Amsterdam and were therefore also involved in implementing the principles of equality, even though it cannot, of course, be said that there is much in the way of obvious equality in their own Assembly.
Because a great many of the countries have said that they want to hold referenda, we have the major task of conveying to women in the candidate countries that the EU is good for them.
In connection with the reports, I would also say - and the President-in-Office of the Council touched upon this, too - that one of the major problems in the EU is of course the big cultural differences.
This clearly shows that the countries have very different interests, but one of the things we have to work on is trying to find out where, in particular, we can make a contribution in the individual countries.
Mr President, Mrs Péry, Commissioner, the reports that the Commission has drawn up on equal opportunities in 1997, 1998 and 1999 are very important documents and the reference to the Treaty of Amsterdam is a significant step forward.
Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, covering equal opportunities for men and women and Article 141 covering positive measures for employment are a guarantee for women that should take effect in all the policies of the European Union.
They have a much smaller share in the labour market than men, a difference that is particularly accentuated in some countries, especially in southern Europe.
We know that measures for combining family and working life particularly favour women, although research is still needed into the current situation of the family and the role that women play in it, which is no longer the traditional role, because society has changed a great deal, and at the same time, so has family structure.
It is essential that research should be carried out on the real situation of women in the various Member States in order to guide the policies that need to be made if we are to achieve greater equality between men and women.
The percentage of women in work in the European Union is much lower than that in the United States and Japan, a level that only some northern European countries come close to.
European Union policies should help them to take part in order to achieve greater equality between men and women.
We cannot verify this, for - and the rapporteur also mentioned this in her report - the goals of the policy are not clearly defined and cannot be measured.
This week we have taken a great step closer to a reunited Europe.
We must monitor whether the directive on equality is really being incorporated into legislation.
Mainstreaming is very important in the internal policies of the candidate countries, too.
The EU should pursue a campaign to combat violence against women throughout Eastern and Central Europe.
The EU should also take the initiative and organise a UN convention against the trade in human beings.
It must also be said that France' s constitutional amendment to establish a policy of equal decision-making would perhaps be ideal as a source of inspiration not just in the Member States, but perhaps also at European Union level.
I would also like to mention one problem in the area of work and family life.
We must be very careful that young mothers and fathers do not freely surrender their rights because they are afraid of the problems they might encounter in working life.
For example, at noon we will be voting on two reports on discrimination and equal access to employment which both exclude gender on the grounds that gender is covered by policies other than discrimination policy.
Both are possible, but they are also contradictory, because we know very well that flexibility creates more poverty, and next week' s World March of Women will make that point.
There is no equal opportunity, there is no real equality for women without autonomy and freedom as social rights, so that they can have control of their lives throughout their lives.
But where, pray, are the conditions for women' s rights and equal opportunities in that enlargement?
I am concerned about that and I urge the French Presidency to be concerned about it.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all of us here agree that equal opportunities for men and women must be pursued in all our policies.
First, because while women, like citizens in general, have the same ideas of what is fair and what is unjust, they do not have the same ideas about their role in the various cultures of the European Union.
Every abortion is a condemnation of our society, but never a condemnation of an individual woman.
More serious still, I also have the feeling that the institutions of the European Union have the greatest difficulty developing a global vision of society in our countries.
Instead of addressing everyone, we compartmentalise: minority after minority, ethnic group after ethnic group.
Any kind of national attachment must be destroyed, European societies must be reduced to a collection of isolated individuals in small ethnic, sexual, social or other minorities, all run from a distance by a European State as distant as it is pernickety.
The Polish delegation to the New York conference already had occasion to appreciate the arrogance of a part of the European delegation incapable of accepting other positions more measured than its own.
In spite of these remarks, we shall vote for this report because we are naturally in favour of equal opportunities, but what equal opportunities means most of all is respect for everyone.
This means, among other things, that men and women interrelate and need each other in order to do themselves justice as men and women.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was certainly a sensible initiative on the part of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities to compile a report on the Commission' s annual reports concerning equal opportunities for men and women in the European Union, covering the period from 1997 to 1999.
However, we are still awaiting the decision regarding a formal Council of Ministers.
Other speakers have made the point: we want political action.
The Fifth Action Programme will assist us in this, but we as a European Parliament have already come some way ourselves.
I try to look at these reports from the point of view of women in Wales, the constituency I represent, and consider how they are affected by this kind of progress and how they can get access to and use this kind of information.
I would support the request of the Committee on Women's Rights in this report for a major study of women in the EU and in the candidate countries as a starting point for future work.
Greater involvement by women at all levels of government and in all areas of life is essential for deepening democracy and achieving and maintaining peace.
The reports are welcome and the progress they outline is a step forward, but until we really begin to exchange good practice and base our work on real statistics, we are not in a position to judge whether we are on the right road to achieving real equality between women and men.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Péry, ladies and gentlemen, as the Commission' s reports acknowledge, major issues still remain to be resolved in the field of equal opportunities for men and women.
Despite the differing situations in Member States, there are generally fewer women in the labour market, they are most affected by unemployment, including long-term unemployment, and by casual labour, part-time work and atypical, insecure and badly paid work.
Since we know that quality employment that provides rights is a fundamental factor in guaranteeing equality between men and women and in guaranteeing women the same kind of independence as men, it is crucial that we study the causes of this situation and adopt the necessary measures to overcome it, specifically through policies on employment, training, education and on infrastructures for supporting the family and children, giving priority to this issue at a practical level and not just making declarations of intent.
Whilst this situation can be explained to some extent by the difficulties women face in the labour market and within the family, it is also true that political parties must shoulder their democratic responsibility to guarantee equal opportunities for women to participate in political life and in the decision-making process itself, in order to put an end to the scandalous situation that still exists at the beginning of the new millennium.
Madam President-in-Office, thank you for coming here today to tell us about the French Presidency' s interesting initiatives.
I should like to dwell in particular on two terms: articulation between family and work and parité au quotidien.
These concepts and what they stand for are gaining ground in French society and I hope that this interest will be exported to the rest of Europe.
My final comment concerns the situation of women in the countries preparing to join the European Union.
It concerns not only women in the European Union, but also women in the candidate countries.
Worse, so-called equality is sometimes turned against women: for instance, in France today the incorporation of a directive is going to make night work legal for women.
In conclusion, fine words and nothing concrete.
That is what we will be saying in Brussels on 14 October with the World March of Women fighting against violence and for real work for all.
From the reports and speeches that we are considering today we can deduce, as many of us already knew, that the problem of equal opportunities is a structural problem and that in order to deal with it we need global strategies, because as women we are not a category or a homogenous social group or indeed any sort of group.
We cannot continue with an elitist debate, we cannot continue to have progress only benefiting those women who enjoy greater opportunities.
Our efforts need to be directed at the women who have the most problems, who are certainly the majority in the European Union.
Not all countries have managed to follow France' s example, which I hope will bear fruit elsewhere.
As the Ministry of Equal Opportunities in Portugal is now defunct, who will represent my country at the meeting on 27 October in Paris?
The report before us is, I feel, a major synergistic work.
I was indeed sorry to see that Maria De Belém Roseira was no longer the representative.
Obviously not, and as someone involved with associations for social change - because I too, like many of you, have some thirty years of involvement with these associations behind me - I know how hard the social movement, the feminist movement and the intellectual movement, naturally, have worked to move this issue forward, and today we take our places in roles of responsibility in our institutions.
The history of the women' s movement goes back way over fifty years: I sometimes remember Olympe de Gouges, who dared to call for a declaration of women' s rights and gender equality, and was condemned to the scaffold in 1793.
My second comment is about inequality in the world of work.
This is currently being debated in Parliament, and I have introduced a provision, which obviously does not suit everyone in my country, but which is compulsory and will compel each company or profession to negotiate on equality in the workplace every three years, covering salaries, conditions of work, career prospects, and access to lifelong training.
Mr President, what we refer to here and what has been referred to for a century as the women' s problem is approached from two different angles, as the debate here in the House today has demonstrated.
The 97, 98 and 99 reports are not simply working papers.
Thirdly, because they form the basis for strategy, both for the European Union - even in the Charter of Fundamental Rights the fact that we had a picture of the current situation played an important role - and at national level, given that the Member States are able to use the comparative assessment to set national targets.
I fully accept the comments in the report and the recommendations by Members who have spoken of the need to change the nature of the report.
I have taken your comments on board and I see that we need to concentrate on analysing data, especially the results of successful strategies and successful initiatives at national and European level, in order to give the report a strategic slant.
However, I would stress that, in working with each of the candidate countries, we have been closely monitoring the question of sexual equality, as regards both the legislative framework and the creation of institutions which can support the application of these policies.
As you know, we have starting signing joint reports with each candidate country in order to monitor their adjustment to employment policy on an annual basis.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
This reform is important because it aims to re-examine the Community Customs Code in accordance with the progress of the internal market and of administrative techniques.
Building a common customs system has been one of the major achievements in that progress towards European construction.
Three of them - Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 7, referred to the commitology procedure.
These amendments need to be considered in the new context of the interinstitutional agreement, and therefore, Parliament can agree to not insisting on these commitology amendments given that they have been superseded to a certain extent by the new interinstitutional framework.
With Amendment No 15, Parliament wished to introduce a recital urging the customs authorities to apply customs rules correctly, to establish monitoring measures in order to ensure that it was applied consistently and to facilitate action against fraud.
Finally, Amendment No 11 requested that this modification to the Community Customs Code enter into force before 1 January 2000 and is, therefore, no longer valid.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, following a long debate, considered that it was not reasonable to maintain legal uncertainty for a period of six years, and that three years, which is the period set, is a more reasonable period of time for establishing, with the appropriate means and the average proceedings, whether or not there were irregularities in a declaration.
With regard to the modification of Paragraph 6 of Article 215, it should be said that we are dealing with a deeper issue, because the intention is that the additional declaration could be made anywhere in the European Union, especially wherever in the European Union the undertaking in question has its headquarters.
The progress made on the internal market, the gradual growth in trade due to the increasing opening up of the markets and the progress of the information society mean that the Community Customs Code needs to be brought up to date with the development of Community and international trade.
I must therefore regret that they were not taken into consideration, although I also understand the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market - the position of the rapporteur - of not re-introducing the amendments because, ultimately, what really matters is that the Community Customs Code and the proposed reforms move forward and that the legal framework is established.
However, there is an amendment that the Council rightly rejected.
It is Amendment No 15, on fraud.
There were goods, particularly tobacco, which were entering through a non-Community country in the European Economic Area zone, going through the Community zone and then mysteriously leaving the Community zone on paper, but without actually leaving.
Currently, for example, there has been a drop in the price of bananas in the European Union.
Therefore, while recognising, as the Council and the Commission have said, that this amendment was not appropriate in this case, I would like to, once again, take the opportunity to point out that the procedures for monitoring imports in the European Union are not working, that fraud is being committed and that this fraud is not only bad for Community taxpayers, but also for the functioning of the internal market, and even for loyalty to third countries.
If we want third countries to accept commitments, the European Community must be the most zealous in ensuring that its own rules are being complied with, because if a country has the opportunity to place products in the Community by means of smuggling, why is it going to bother to negotiate with us for any sort of concessions?
I therefore welcome the fact that we have reached an agreement on this subject.
I think that the modifications are very positive, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission for greater vigilance and for stricter measures on fraud in Community customs.
After all, in the Community Customs Code, a successful attempt has been made to harmonise and simplify legislation in a transparent manner, which surely must always be the objective.
The code forms the legal basis for levying these duties and, as such, one of the key instruments for protecting the financial interests of the Community and for ensuring the smooth running of the Community policy in different areas.
But it is too late now because you have just taken the vote and Members voted in favour of it.
We have exchanged all the happy words and have asked Member States to take action but the Commission, because of restrictions on its budget and reasons that it has given before, is now indicating that is not prepared to follow through to see how the measures are being implemented in the different countries, which to my mind rather neuters the whole report that Parliament spent a long time putting together.
This is also very sad for thousands of students and others involved in education across Europe.
Mr Samaranch, we know you took up your post as IOC President in 1980, and since then, have introduced many important reforms.
Firstly, the integration of China into the Olympic Games; the institution of the Olympic truce; your insistence on participation in the games by all countries in the world, as well as from countries in conflict, a recent example of which is the participation of athletes from East Timor; the participation of women in the Olympic Games and in the different governing bodies has strengthened considerably under your presidency; and of course, the fact that the Olympic Games in Sydney were considered to have been drugs-free.
Vote (continuation) Mr President, we are just about to start the vote on the Mann report and I want to draw your attention to the fact that there appears to be a translation problem in Amendment No 63 from the TDI Group.
Report Evans (A5-0255/2000) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
The right of freedom of movement of European citizens is still being violated in many ways.
Students in particular often encounter barriers and difficulties in Member States that should no longer occur under EU legislation.
European rights of citizenship do not seem to carry much weight in this situation.
Everyone agrees that this mobility must be encouraged in the name of the free movement of persons, but also and especially because of all the benefits to the young citizens of Europe and hence the European Union.
According to the recommendation, based on Articles 149 and 150 of the Treaty, Member States need to be encouraged to adopt measures which will steadily remove the existing difficulties, and the citizens of the Union should be offered a platform of rights leading to real mobility.
Mr Evans also demonstrates that people hoping to benefit from programmes in this area need to be better informed about their social security entitlements.
Remember that 2001 has been designated European Year of Languages.
I call on the Member States to coordinate the formalities to be fulfilled for enrolling in the establishments of other Member States.
That is why I shall vote for this report.
It lays down conditions to enable people travelling inside the Union to do so free from restrictions on their rights, their social security, or other benefits.
As the rapporteur said, the Commission appears to be aware that, unless concrete measures are adopted, certain fundamental freedoms that are enshrined in the Treaty, such as the right of residence and the right of free movement, are, in practice, in danger of becoming mere statements of principle.
We are therefore opposed to Amendment 38 concerning the introduction of common tax regulations for volunteers.
I hope when this report comes back for second reading we are able to note that the Council has incorporated the rapporteur's sensible amendments.
Report Mann (A5-0264/2000) Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party, I would like to draw two points requiring clarification to your attention.
I strongly supported this amendment, which reads: "no discrimination as regards access to health care, welfare benefits, and economic assistance shall be permitted on the grounds of the age of a disabled person" .
I have not voted for the Mann report because, while it is indeed necessary to seek equal treatment for people in employment and occupation, it is also necessary to refrain from pushing zeal to the point of abandoning all protection of freedoms and all respect for the rule of law.
During the Treaty of Amsterdam negotiations we were delighted with the inclusion of Article 13 on discrimination on the grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation.
That kind of provision bears witness to the Community' s commitment to promote a more just, more egalitarian society, and above all, it has opened the way to appropriate Community action aimed at contributing to the fight against discrimination in general.
The proposals consist of two draft directives, covering discrimination in employment and discrimination based on race and ethnic origin, and an action programme intended to support the efforts of the Member States.
As regards the parallel directive on equal treatment irrespective of race or ethnic origin, the Council succeeded in reaching political agreement after the European Parliament revised its opinion on the issue.
We have therefore had to vote on the directive on equal treatment in employment and the 2001/2006 Action Programme.
To explain my votes, I would first say that the right to equal treatment and protection against discrimination is a fundamental human right.
As regards the Mann report on equal treatment in employment, I shall limit myself to emphasising my satisfaction that the grounds for derogation have been successfully reduced to the minimum.
I felt it was essential to broaden the scope of the programme in order to ensure the implementation of Article 13 of the Treaty.
Everyone is well aware of the problems faced by certain minorities in those countries.
In conclusion, I support the spirit of these proposals and I have voted for most of them, the exception being where they are in contradiction with my secularism.
The proposal for a directive on equal treatment in employment and occupation before us today is a response to a demand long expressed by the European Parliament, and our group in particular.
It is actually one of three parts of a package of measures on combating discrimination based on the new Article 13, introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam, and includes a Community action programme.
So, I enthusiastically support this proposal for a directive and the very positive amendments proposed by our rapporteur to improve its effectiveness.
In parallel, the amendment extending the exception to the principle of non-discrimination to the wider 'social' activities of religious organisations, where the discrimination is solely based on religious conviction and on no other grounds, is a reinforcement of the specific nature and original contribution of these structures as compared with public or private services.
This directive gives Member States a great opportunity to enhance the rights of workers across the European Union.
The SNP is pleased to support this legislation, which is in line with our party's policies of ending discrimination in all its guises and of positively backing measures to ensure equality of treatment for all citizens.
His report was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
This brings to mind another sound rule of thumb: 'no one can achieve the impossible' .
The proposal covers both direct and indirect discrimination.
The proposal also allows positive action to redress gender imbalance.
On age, the EPLP welcomes the principle of fighting age discrimination in employment and training.
The EPLP is concerned to ensure that the directive will permit Section 60 of the UK Schools Standard and Framework Act 1998 to remain unaltered.
On sexual orientation, we welcome the principle of the Commission's proposals to fight discrimination on this ground.
Several areas of difference with the race directive should be eliminated, such as the definition of indirect discrimination in Amendment No 21, the defence of rights in Article 8, the text on victimisation in Article 10, and Article 11 covering dissemination of information.
We also feel that the directive should be clear about which differences of treatment on the grounds of age are permissible and which are not.
We have therefore decided to vote against this amendment, but we support the report as such.
To set up an internal audit office in the institutions will naturally require effort, but that effort will remain the same, whether it is made now or in the future.
Report Titley (A5-0211/2000) I am sure, in common with all my colleagues, we support the proper management and control of arms exports in the European Union.
The reasons of my vote on this report relate, in the main, to the question of closer European Union relations with NATO and also the onward rush to a common defence policy.
Many will speak about peace and conflict resolution while at the same time will be making deals to sell arms to combatants.
The individual EU countries are members of NATO and the WEU, or else are non-aligned.
The report sees arms export controls primarily as a method of avoiding awkward situations for Europe' s military industry and not as a way of achieving disarmament and peace.
support this report from my colleague, Gary Titley, and agree with him that responsible arms trade practices form part of the "acquis communautaire" and therefore candidate countries should be actively involved in the further development of the Code of Conduct on arms exports and that this should be legally binding.
The European states have sold arms to Indonesia, whose army is implicated in the massacres in Timor and the Moluccas.
Our objections to this are four-fold: the possibility of yet another range of activities being justiciable in the European Court of Justice is opened up; the possibility of obtaining agreement by other arms exporting countries outside the EU to an international code of conduct will be that much more difficult and unattractive if it is legally binding; if legal sanctions are involved there is a danger that some of those involved in the arms trade will be less open in their activities; there may be reluctance by some countries to place arms orders with European states which are encumbered by legislation, particularly when a long-term after-sales support relationship may be involved.
Report Angelilli (A5-0258/2000) Children are the first victims of violence on television.
We do agree with a number of interesting proposals on protecting children in the Angelilli report, such as the need for a detailed study into the moral and legal aspects of the protection of minors.
If I do so, it is not because I am opposed to the report as such but because I should like to send a clear signal to the effect that the EU and the Commission should concentrate on their core tasks.
It is not a task for the EU but for the Member States to take initiatives in this area.
The legal and ethical framework does indeed vary from one Member State to another in line with national traditions and culture.
Everyone agrees, however, that it is in the public interest to make a decisive stand against the wave of violence and other content dangerous to young people which is flooding television programmes and audiovisual services transmitted via networks, in order to protect the psychological balance of minors.
This report confirms that it is in the public interest to protect children from viewing excessive television violence and other programmes that may produce harmful effects.
The subject of this report is both highly specific and highly complex.
There are various solutions, but none is satisfactory.
Children are also great consumers of the Internet and video games.
The approach must include all forms of image transmission.
Under these circumstances, it is essential that all the Member States comply with Community legislation as quickly as possible.
The 1998 report makes a special study of the phenomenon of unemployment and the economic impact of under-employment of women.
Moreover, women are often in 'flexible' jobs; temporary contracts and low salaries are typical in sectors where women employees are in a majority.
Women are also over-represented in 'typically female' occupations but under-represented in jobs with responsibility and in the professions.
I therefore fully support the rapporteur in urging the Commission to pursue its efforts and in particular to strengthen the 'strategic' nature of its annual reports, by assessing the effectiveness of policy initiatives rather than contenting itself with describing them.
I also think it is necessary to stress that Community standards of respect for women' s rights and equal opportunities should be implemented in the candidate countries even before they join.
Since the last electoral farce, Fujimori has lost his legitimacy and not only that, but he has lost the political support that he previously had.
At the moment, the question that arises is the future of Peru, of knowing whether the country will be able to get out of the difficult situation in which Mr Fujimori has now placed it.
Various political groups have presented a joint draft resolution in which we basically ask President Fujimori to go, but to do so in such a way that, through a process of clean and democratic elections, democracy can be consolidated in that country.
Therefore, I think that if the European institutions and the European Parliament help the Peruvian people at this difficult time, we could contribute to the stability of the country and to the consolidation of democratic institutions across Latin America.
Mr President, Peru is currently going through a period of uncertainty, and we all cherish the hope that the current situation will be resolved through a process in which all civil and political rights are guaranteed, which will help to strengthen and consolidate democracy and peace in Peru, a country that has suffered 25 000 deaths in the last fifteen years.
The adverse effect that North American backing for him has had on those desires must be neutralised by another influence, a positive influence in favour of human rights and full democratic progress, coming from the European Union.
As far as Peru is concerned, a number of speakers, and also our resolution, have pointed to the fact that President Fujimori' s forthcoming resignation offers scope for a fresh start.
I feel that this resolution marks a key point in Parliament's political initiative.
Mr President, the need for the resolution on the situation in Peru has made two things clear.
The first is our frustration at having to return to the vigilance over democracy and human rights in Latin America, which was of major concern to Parliament in the 1980s and which diminished in the 1990s with the emergence of democratic governments in most countries there.
Europe did not take the opportunity provided by the fledgling democracies to promote development and social justice in Latin America to help these countries to break their almost exclusive dependence on accumulating capital, which is based on drug trafficking.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conditions under which elections were held in Peru in May this year, were unacceptable.
The European Union emphasised only very recently, in a declaration, that President Fujimori had seized the initiative with his decision to call fresh elections.
The vote will take place at 6.00 p.m.
Mr President, earlier in the day we had a debate about the rights of women in the European Union, and we also touched upon the question of the new candidate countries.
I find it completely incredible that such things can still be going on in the year 2000, and not only do we not intervene, but we cannot, in reality, do a vast amount about them.
What is happening here, however, is in fact even worse.
The international community can no longer content itself with burying its head in the sand, and conducting 'wait-and-see' diplomacy.
He can be a man of peace.
Massoud insists that there is no military solution to the Afghan problem.
Finally it insists, and this is the essential point, that the European Union coordinate its initiatives with those of neighbouring countries to impose a solution whereby peace, stability, and respect for international law and the most elementary human rights can be re-established.
It would do the EU' s image no harm at all if it were to get a political initiative off the ground in the United Nations, with a view to finding a peaceful solution to the conflicts in Afghanistan.
The European Union must renew its solidarity with all Afghan women in their struggle at home and abroad against the Taliban regime.
So peace, stability and respect for rights can only be re-established through a political solution.
I do not think that this code will be useful unless it is effective in preventing weapons from reaching the hands of people who are committing very serious violations against human rights, as these people are.
The Taliban launched a new military attack on their northern opponents in the middle of the worst drought this poor country has had since time immemorial.
It remains very much to be seen whether this religious barbarism is really sufficient for us to form a closed international containment front against the hosts of Jihad conspirator, Osama bin Laden.
In addition, ECHO has already made EUR 5.7 million available this year for the victims of drought in Afghanistan, for mine clearance in the north of the country and for the resettlement of refugees.
Between 1991 and 2000, the Commission made a total of EUR 400 million available for refugee aid, humanitarian emergency aid and food aid.
With its common position on Afghanistan, the European Union is supporting the United Nations' special mission in Afghanistan, and the efforts to achieve peace undertaken by the General Secretary' s special representatives.
Accordingly, the common position roundly condemns the ongoing discrimination against women in Afghanistan and other human rights violations that take place there.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.00 p.m.
Two other Community citizens have also been freed today.
Nevertheless, Colombia is clearly a country that deserves our attention.
I think this is a good time to highlight the need for the European Union to draw up a comprehensive policy on Latin America which could perhaps prevent these countries from regularly going through the crisis situations that some of them have experienced.
At the moment, for example, there is a Colombian priest, Oliveiro Medina, who is in Brazil.
His extradition to Colombia could put his life in danger because we have already seen, in the last resolution on Colombia that we discussed, that more than 24 human rights defenders have recently been murdered there.
Unfortunately, we may have to discuss it again, but I think that the European Union should have a fundamental role - as Manolo Medina was saying - in Latin America in general.
Mr President, I would like to share in the happiness of my compatriots and fellow Members who have talked of their satisfaction at the freeing of the Spanish Jesuit Alejandro Matos and of other Community citizens.
We cannot forget that, in the past year, 2 075 people have been kidnapped in Colombia by the guerrillas, and we must express our concern for the violent situation that it is experiencing, particularly in the north, in the Santander region - a jungle region whose border with Venezuela is, moreover, very easily penetrated - where the constant clashes between guerrillas and paramilitaries are increasing, with many road blocks and frequent murders.
I therefore think that we should reiterate our support for a peaceful solution to the Colombian conflict, in which the actions of the drug cartels have a dramatic influence.
The European Union must therefore support the initiatives by President Andrés Pastrana, aimed at achieving a negotiated peace between his government and the guerrilla groups, the FAR (Revolutionary Armed Forces) and the so-called National Liberation Army.
Mr President, the issue of Colombia is something that really has not been properly addressed in the European Union.
Not so very long ago there was a resolution on the situation of the peace community in San José de Apartado.
The Commission is deeply concerned about the escalation of violence in Colombia, particularly in respect of the massacres perpetrated recently by paramilitary forces in the so-called peaceful communities of San José de Apartado.
Furthermore, the Commission has proposed organising in Brussels a follow-up meeting to the Donors Conference that took place on 7 July in Madrid.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.00 p.m.
As several speakers have indicated, I can inform you that after good news from Colombia about the release of the Jesuit priest, and following agreement between the political groups, the motions for resolutions on this issue are withdrawn.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think this resolution is important because it refers to a positive decision by the Macedonian government, and unfortunately not by all the political forces of Macedonia, on the law on higher education which will at last allow young people from minorities, in particular the Albanian minority, to study in their mother tongue.
It is regrettable that, at the request of the Socialist Group in particular, the text of the resolution does not mention their names, and I would like to point out to our Socialist friends that their request, made in the name of a more general principle that political forces should not be cited, strikes me as rather unreliable given that, looking at the motion for a resolution on the Middle East we are going to vote on today, we are frankly dealing with very specific situations and very specific players.
Mr President, I would like to take up what Mr Dupuis had to say.
We have seen how the difficult situation in Macedonia has steadily worsened where the treatment of the Albanians is concerned.
All of those who, for a long time now, have been going in and out of this country, have kept up the pressure for this problem to be resolved.
Not us, but the government under Prime Minister Georgievski, and also the Albanian leader, Xhaferi, and above all, the representative of the Council of Europe, Max van der Stoel.
In common with Olivier Dupuis, I bitterly regret the fact that the opposition parties - which formed part of the government up until 1998 and could have resolved the problem - have closed their minds to this draft bill without offering a better solution themselves.
All those who want to see an improvement in the inter-ethnic relations in Macedonia, in the interests of stabilisation, must now do their bit to help solve this problem and ensure that a private university actually becomes a reality.
That is a development which, in my view, deserves unqualified support from the European Union.
I am proud of the fact, that this time round, the role of Mr Max van der Stoel, the High Representative for minorities of the OSCE, has proved crucial in this issue.
The former President, Mr Gligorov, was already a shining example of non-ethnic thinking, and the new President, too, has gained the trust of all groups of the population in Macedonia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group proposes to support the present motion, which we have also signed, because I believe it is right for the European Union to support the solution that has been found in Macedonia and which accommodates the Albanian population.
I am convinced that this tiny country in the Balkans deserves the undivided support of the European Union and I trust that an association and stability agreement will be signed before the end of the French Presidency.
The funding allocation is provided for in the financing proposal which is to be put forward today - possibly this very hour - to the PHARE administration committee.
The PHARE funding made available for the year 2000 under the national programme could also be used to support the university in the coming academic year, i.e.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.00 p.m.
We do not consider that everything is a mess in Greece; there are some very good ships and the overwhelming majority of Greek seamen are very good at their job.
We have tabled the motion as an expression of our awareness of the issue and our intention to fight for Greece to adopt even higher safety standards than the European Union in order to correct this negative impression of our country.
Three amendments have been proposed by the GUE/NGL Group, one on shipping registers, one on working conditions and one on an in situ investigation by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against a resolution on the sinking of the Express Samina under the urgent procedure the other day because a judicial inquiry is already under way in Greece and the Greek Government had already made a number of statements on what needs to be done.
And they do not only concern Greece.
Which is why we are impatient to receive the recent decisions finally taken by the Council and we are impatient to receive them in legislative form in Parliament also, which is why we feel that it would be useful if a parliamentary committee were to go to Greece and work with the authorities, agencies and professionals to see where the difficulties lie - it is the most experienced country when it comes to shipping - so that it can assist the European Parliament in helping to improve, enhance and introduce stricter legislation for the safety of shipping throughout Europe.
As far as my amendment on working conditions is concerned, there is a directive on this and the wording of the amendment is less satisfactory than the text.
And finally, the visit by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism is not, I think, the answer to our prayers; it is up to the European Commission to investigate and ascertain if a Community directive has been infringed, to hurry up with the case law which we want to see in order to make shipping safer and, finally, to do whatever needs to be done and, as I said, to investigate the matter of this famous competition committee.
On behalf of the Socialist transport team, I regret the fact that this debate is taking place as an urgency.
This is not a concern solely for Greece.
Some of us have worked on the issue of ferry safety for many years, not least because other ferries in other parts of Europe have also sunk with a tragic loss of life, be it the Herald of Free Enterprise, the Scandinavian Star or, of course, most notoriously of all, the Estonia in the 1990s.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to join the name of my own group in expressing sympathy and solidarity with the families of the deceased and the survivors of the shipwreck and gratitude also to those involved in the rescue operations.
But the issue cannot be localised in this way.
Nor are such issues important only for those of us who come from areas where the sea is our highway or our place of work.
This is so, if only because, in the words of the early English poet, John Donne, any man's death diminishes me because I am part of mankind.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I, too, should like to add our condolences to the families who have lost loved ones in this tragedy.
As a Member who represents Scotland, I feel a particular sadness and concern too about these events.
Both our countries have many island communities around our shores and as such the people of Scotland's islands felt a particular sense of shock following the recent events in Greece.
We are fortunate in Scotland not to have directly suffered the type of tragedy to hit Greece but we are only too well aware that our waters are some of the most hazardous in Europe.
The fact that the ill-fated ship was 34 years old and was not included on the list of ships which - and this too is wrong - were exempted from the additional inspections required under Directive 98/18/ÅC, is positive proof of the unaccountability of the shipping industry which always finds a way, for which governments and regulatory authorities are to blame, of getting round even these generally inadequate regulations, at the expense of passenger and shipping safety.
The legal framework for shipping in Greece and in the European Union in general has proven to be inadequate and dangerous and we need new, stricter rules, especially for very old ships, rules without derogations.
On the contrary, innocent victims are being exploited in order to promote shipowners' wider objectives.
We call on the European Parliament not to approve the suspension of cabotage by rejecting the reference to it in Paragraph 5 of the joint resolution, on which our group has requested a separate vote, and for the European Parliament to approve the involvement of crew representatives in regulatory authorities and shipping registers and the manning of ships in line with the real needs of cabotage by approving the amendments which we have tabled.
Mr President, my group would also like to express its condolences to those involved in the Samina Express disaster.
The quality of both ships and staff under their flags is rather more notorious than renowned.
We cannot afford to make the same mistake again.
This resolution points us in the right direction.
The Commission therefore contacted the Greek authorities as soon as the Express Samina went down, requesting clarification of the application of Community law.
The Commission asked the Greek authorities to check if the ships required to adopt the Community' s safety standards by 30 September had in fact done so.
As a result of the check requested by the Commission, 60 ships were taken out of service pending proof of compliance with standards.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.00 p.m.
Situation in the Middle East - Elections in Yugoslavia The next item is the statement by the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy on the situation in the Middle East and the elections in Yugoslavia.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, excuse me for having arrived a little late, for reasons that you are well aware of, in order to make a brief declaration on the two matters on the agenda: the situation in Belgrade and in the former Republic of Yugoslavia in general, and the situation in the Middle East.
Unfortunately, this evening I am not going to be able to tell you anything positive on either of these two subjects.
As you know, there are currently around one million people on the streets of Belgrade and the news that we are getting is that tension is mounting.
From the point of view of the European Union, I think that the decision taken by the Constitutional Court is, once again, a violation of all the basic principles of a country that should have free elections.
The resolution passed by the Constitutional Court meant, once again, taking away the votes of citizens who have voted freely and obtained a majority.
I would like to say to you, on behalf of the European Union and the Council, that we consider Professor Kostunica to be the leader of the majority of the Serbian people and that it is him who we are going to support and continue to support.
Therefore, we also need to work within the United Nations with the countries of the former Yugoslavia in order to reach an agreement as soon as possible which, when Serbia becomes free, could unblock economic aid through the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
I would like to say - as you know - that the Presidency has organised a summit in Zagreb, which we hope will be a summit in which a democratic former Republic of Yugoslavia takes part, and that we want to include all the countries in building a Balkans region that is stable, prosperous, with a European outlook and with its eyes on the future. (Applause) This is what I can tell you at the moment.
But I do say to you - and I think that we have to continue to be firm about this - that President Milosevic robbed his people of their freedom.
This is what we must say and we must do everything we can to prevent it from happening again. (Applause) You have asked me to give you information on the latest events in the Middle East, and unfortunately, in this case I am also unable to give you optimistic news.
For those of us who have had the very powerful experience of taking part in a great number of meetings over the summer, which resulted in the two sides coming much closer together than they ever have, it is all the more sad still to be seeing people and families torn apart and people suffering and dying in the streets of those countries that we are so fond of.
As you know, Prime Minister Barak did not attend the meeting, and although there is this agreement, which has not been formalised, the situation in the territories is a little better.
I would once again like to make an appeal from this institution to everyone involved and, in particular, to the political leaders involved to make every effort to reduce the tension and, as quickly as possible, to return to the negotiating table, because their positions are not so different that they cannot come to an agreement.
During the elections on 24 September, the Serbian people ousted Milosevic and his regime.
We have always made it clear that we would radically revise our policy towards Serbia if the Serbian people voted at the elections in favour of the opposition and, hence, democratic change.
We made it clear - and I should like to reaffirm this - that any decision in favour of democratic change would also be a decision to return to Europe.
Allow me to say loud and clear: Europe unreservedly supports the democratic opposition in Serbia.
We call for the voice of the Serbian people to be heard and respected and we share its burning desire to see the back of Milosevic and his cohorts, who have brought so much suffering and unhappiness to so many, both in Serbia and in several other countries.
It will give the Serbian people the chance to rejoin the European family of nations and to build a peaceful and stable future together with its neighbours.
The message which Parliament must send can only be to urge Milosevic one more time, perhaps for the last time, to see the writing on the wall, step down and pave the way for democratic change in Serbia. (Applause) I should like to make a few comments on the dramatic and rapid developments in the Middle East.
Obviously, this crisis may have dangerous repercussions on the peace process.
After that, the stability of Prime Minister Barak' s government will be in jeopardy and there will be tremendous pressure on President Arafat to declare statehood.
I hope that the meeting between President Mubarak, President Arafat and Prime Minister Barak in Sharm el Sheik will mark a return to constructive negotiation on a lasting peace agreement.
Israel' s long-term interests lie in lasting peace.
We must convince the Palestinians that the best way of achieving their objectives and safeguarding their rights is to negotiate with Israel.
We support the parties in negotiating an agreement in keeping with the principles and references of the peace process set in motion in Madrid.
Madam President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, I take part in this debate with certain reservations because I do not want this Parliament giving the impression that it is sitting in judgment, casting anathema on this or that person when, after such great hopes were raised here only a month ago, we face the dramatic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the Middle East.
The forces of Israel and Palestine are not so lucky.
We all know that is the crux of the matter and we have not forgotten the interesting proposals we have heard on this subject in this very Chamber, which deserve our support.
Madam President, I think that this joint debate, which is really a topical and urgent debate because we are talking about something that is taking place now, firstly requires a strong declaration with which the three institutions can identify.
We have to face up to and shoulder our responsibilities as the European Union, not only regarding the problems that we are dealing with, but also regarding the major issues of world peace.
At the moment, we have the Belgrade Parliament in flames - we know what setting a Parliament on fire means in the context of European history, and we know the responsibility held by leaders that lead their people to disaster.
We are against the leaders who have surely led them to the greatest disaster in their history.
We should not allow the leaders who wish to radicalise the process and the extremist forces to drive it towards disaster, particularly based on a symbolic provocation in one of the most sacred places in the world, an issue we discussed last month in the debate on the future of Jerusalem.
Madam President, my contribution today is not based on all kinds of theoretical analyses but on my own experiences over the past week, because I happened to be in Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip when the disturbances took place.
On the one hand, there is a state and an army occupying a territory in breach of all international laws and, on the other, there is a people who is tired of suffering and humiliation.
In my opinion, Europe can and must do a great deal in this direction, and it must be clear and resolute.
The latest reports I have received - and I regret I may have to leave Parliament to go to Paris immediately - are that the parliament building has been taken over by the demonstrators in Belgrade and the television building is now in the hands of the opposition.
I would like to ask Parliament at this critical hour to issue a statement of support for the brave people who have, today, defended freedom and liberty in the streets of Belgrade, echoing the support which we Europeans gave not many years ago to sustain those people in other capitals who were also fighting for their freedom.
That has allowed us to start a new process in the European Union, opening the doors to those countries which, for historical reasons, are not part of this institution.
Let us hope that this moment is the moment of truth, and that freedom will be in the streets of Belgrade soon.
I have been recalled by the Presidency to be in Paris as soon as possible.
Madam President, the bloody confrontations which have taken place in the last few days in Jerusalem, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank and Israel are particularly serious, because of the high numbers of victims and also because they have brought renewed talk of exclusion as regards the State of Israel, talk that we thought belonged to the past and which is dangerously irresponsible.
The events of the last few days demonstrate exactly how fragile the peace process is.
The Palestinian leaders are in a no-win situation.
Madam President, the peace process in the Middle East is extremely fragile.
Such a situation requires tact.
To this end, my group has tabled two amendments to the resolution to that effect.
I call on this Parliament to follow the Biblical line: pray for peace in Jerusalem so that the Jews and Arabs can live together in peace.
Madam President, over the last few days, we have watched the dream of peace in the Middle East disintegrate.
Madam President, I think the text of this resolution is a perfect demonstration that Europe will never act as a mediator between Israel and Palestine.
Once again, there is confusion between, on the one hand, a democratic State doing its best to deal with an extremely difficult situation and, on the other, the institution at the heart of Palestine which, under provocation certainly, immediately takes up arms to shoot at the Israeli forces of order.
The results of the elections on 24 September have made a democratic change of direction possible.
Since 24 September, Milosevic can no longer claim to be an elected ruler.
The people in Serbia have expressed their will in democratic elections and they are painfully aware of the fact that Milosevic has no intention of respecting this will and is thinking only of hanging on to power and maintaining his contemptuous regime.
Those who have fought for peace in south-eastern Europe for years now and who are familiar with the situation in the region, know how difficult the fight against authoritarian rulers and tyrants in most of these countries was and, in places, still is.
Sometimes we expect too much of the new people in power or we expect them to follow our views and our way of thinking, which do not fit in with their traditions and which are irreconcilable with their philosophy of life or alien to their mindset.
I should therefore like to state quite clearly that we shall soon have new contacts in Serbia, who may well not understand us immediately or who will perhaps misunderstand us, partly due to inexperience and partly due to the cultural or structural differences which I have mentioned.
If we want to give the implementation of the stability pact a real boost after the imminent change of power in Serbia and push the so-called quick start packages through at long last, then we must do more than just talk.
Mr Dupuis, you have abused this truly historic moment here in order to engage in political demagogy.
Secondly, we are in a very delicate position and, therefore, we too trust that there will be fast changes in Yugoslavia and Serbia, because the situation is not easy in either Montenegro or Kosovo.
What we are seeing on CNN is more than the fall of Milosevic.
Serbia is suffering the final pangs of fascism on the fringes of our own Union.
There is of course the support of hundreds of thousands of people - the figure of one million has even been mooted - who are prepared at this moment to put themselves at risk in order to support the opposition and to help Mr Kostunica against the wishes of Mr Milosevic.
I wholeheartedly support the proposal and appeal by Doris Pack to reach the decision quickly, in fact as quickly as possible, to lift the sanctions, because these have done far more harm than good.
Finally, I would like to propose that a delegation from Parliament visit Serbia at the earliest opportunity, and once a new Yugoslavian government has been installed, so that we, in tandem with this new government, can make plans for the reconstruction of a new Serbia.
Our group has confidence in our President and in the declaration which we have agreed she should make.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that today may well turn out to be a historic day in this Parliament, possibly ushering in the end of one of the last buttresses of a totalitarian dictatorship in Europe.
The High Representative explained this only a moment ago, but what we can do is to selectively lift sanctions by way of sending a message to the Serbian electorate.
I hope that the Council, in conjunction with the Commission, will take clear measures in this respect in the short term.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place shortly.
Indeed, while I regret a certain ambiguity in the wording and while I do not accept the failure to mention that there is a multitude of Palestinian groups prepared to do anything to wipe out the State of Israel and the Israelis by means of violence and war, it is my very friendship for the Israelis that makes me implore them to end the armed repression against children.
It is also my friendship for Israel and my esteem for the Palestinians that makes me implore them to do everything possible to achieve peace, even if that means great sacrifice on both sides.
Their security and their medium- and long-term existence are at stake and no doubt world peace too, at this moment.
The European Parliament wishes to express its total solidarity with them at this historic time, as tyranny crumbles and democracy emerges triumphant.
