Draft general budget 2010 (Sections I, II, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX) - Draft general budget 2010 (Section III) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mr Surján, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010, Section III - Commission (C7-0127/2009 - and on the letter of amendment No 1/2010 (SEC(2009)1133) to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010 and the report by Mr Maňka, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010 Section I - European Parliament Section II - Council Section IV - Court of Justice Section V - Court of Auditors Section VI - European Economic and Social Committee Section VII - Committee of the Regions Section VIII - European Ombudsman Section IX - European Data Protection Supervisor (C7-0128/2009 -.
The 2010 budget is being drafted in the shadow of the financial crisis.
State Secretary, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all have to cope with this crisis in some manner or other.
However, there is a serious difference of opinion between the Council and Parliament.
A decision was then made which would allow, in the current situation, a budget of EUR 134 billion in terms of payment levels.
On the other hand, the Council is thinking of a figure of EUR 120 billion, while Parliament does not regard the expenditure of EUR 134 billion as being realistic, is taking into account national governments' problems and will end up proposing EUR 127 billion if the vote on Thursday is guided by the recommendation from the Committee on Budgets.
This is actually the situation we are in because every year, the annual budget is much smaller than we discussed the time before.
However, there is also an even bigger concern.
Annual budgets also feature commitments, many of which remain unfulfilled.
However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the situation is not entirely like this.
It is precisely now, in a time of crisis, that we must prove to the public and prove to ourselves as well, that when it comes to achieving our political goals, we will use all resources in the most effective way possible.
When we repeat such a budgeting process year after year, however, it can lead to deformations, inaccuracies and the wasteful use of resources.
Our aim is therefore to ensure that budgets are created on the basis of real needs.
The budget for 2010 establishes this systematic approach.
There have always been reserves here and many of them have even increased over recent years.
In 2005, the total floor space of the buildings used by institutions in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasburg exceeded 2 million m2.
I firmly believe that the budgetary system of the EU must be developed in such a way as to give precedence to resourcefulness and innovative solutions.
Financing is required for the European Economic Recovery Plan and for support for the dairy sector.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to speak to you today before you finalise your first reading of the 2010 draft budget with Thursday's vote.
I would like, first of all, to thank Parliament for restoring the preliminary draft budget in many areas.
The Commission is concerned about the current difficulties in the dairy sector and we have taken due note of Parliament's proposal to create a special 'Milk Fund' and of the stance taken by the ministers of agriculture.
In line with the proposal made yesterday by my colleague, Marianne Fischer Boel, next week's Amending Letter to the 2010 budget will propose that EUR 280 million be dedicated to help address the immediate consequences of the crisis for milk producers.
This new proposal has an impact on the initially envisaged financing of the gap for the EERP but, as I said, the Commission will deploy all efforts to eventually find the necessary resources in time for the conciliation meeting.
The European Parliament is proposing an overall increase of nearly 10% in the level of payments compared to 2009, which is some 4% above the level proposed by the Commission.
We propose that the claims against Member States in respect of staff pensions, estimated at EUR 37 billion at 31 December 2008, be entered in the accounts as an asset.
In 2025 - in other words, in 15 years' time - China and India will together account for 20% of global investments in research and development.
Both the Council and the Commission have agreed that this is a priority - in the Lisbon process, in the Seventh Framework Programme and in the European Economic Recovery Plan.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - Madam President, compared to the 2009 budget, the Commission proposal for 2010 provides for a moderate increase in the budget lines concerning internal market and customs policy, whereas the amount of money allocated to consumer policy remains stable.
In the draft 2010 budget, the Council has decreased the money, in particular, for budget lines which concern the development of the internal market.
I believe that a functioning internal market in these times of economic crisis can contribute to the economic recovery.
The crisis has shown how important consumer policy, in particular, consumer education, is, in order to help consumers take responsible economic decisions.
For all these reasons, the IMCO Committee called for a separate budget line on the SOLVIT programme to be financed by an amount of EUR 1 million.
Finally, for the continuation of the pilot project monitoring measures in the field of consumer policy for the consolidation of a scoreboard and related market study, as a preparatory action, the amount adopted is EUR 1 million.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - Madam President, for 2010 we need a budget harnessing effectively all European policies to pull the European economy out of the crisis, while at the same time preserving our long-term objectives and commitments, which are sustainable growth, economic and social cohesion, and our obligations vis-à-vis the external world, including candidate countries.
In the draft budget, the Council has automatically cut 36 lines on administrative expenditure, among other lines accompanying the instrument for pre-accession assistance (IPA).
We are therefore calling for an increase of approximately EUR 81 million for stockpiling from 2009 to 2010 and of approximately EUR 440 million for export refunds and we will be voting in favour of these.
As before, I would, of course, have preferred EUR 600 million when it comes to the dairy fund.
The EUR 300 million that we are now calling for for 2010 is what is absolutely necessary and I ask that this money be fixed in the budget on a permanent basis as the dairy fund.
With regard to research and the Seventh Framework Programme, as in previous years, we have demonstrated prudence and asked that, now that fisheries research no longer has its own heading in the budget, at least the percentage of investment should not decrease, as all decisions on fisheries management hinge on knowledge of the environment and of marine species, especially given that one of our new objectives is to apply an ecosystem-based approach to all legislation in the Common Fisheries Policy.
You, as the Council, and the Member States are also encompassed by common European responsibility, and our European expenditure is expenditure for our common European interest.
If we really want to combat tax havens, the Union must also equip itself with the resources to conduct this policy consistently.
The Commissioner will tell us whether this is an inadvertent error.
The Committee on Budgets will be ready for the debate, but on the basis of proposals coming from a Commission that is fully legitimate, that is armed with a five-year mandate, and that is ready to assume its political responsibility when it comes to initiatives with this kind of scope.
We have worked towards making the 2010 draft budget as flexible as possible at this time of particular economic and financial crisis.
Therefore, payments have been increased to EUR 127 billion in line with the draft budget tabled by the Committee on Budgets, compared with EUR 120 billion proposed by the Council and EUR 122 billion proposed by the Commission.
There is a particular risk at times of crisis: that budget resources will not actually be increased, but transferred from one budget line to another.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe also supports the proposal to allocate EUR 300 million to a dairy fund to cushion the current crisis for dairy producers.
Parliament's budget remains within the 20% for total administrative expenditure in the EU, and that despite taking on the expenditure for Members' compensation under the new Statute for Members.
We have, after all, an environmental and an economic crisis, and we have a crisis of hunger and poverty in the world.
We need to change our agricultural policy, which must become more environmental in nature.
Yet energy generation, too, can play a major role in the rural economy and can take place in an environmentally friendly and ecological way.
If we are to spend this money now - the EUR 280 million that we are debating - it must go direct to the producers and their organisations.
We do not believe that we should spend EUR 449 million on export subsidies in the dairy sector because what this does is to ruin markets elsewhere, primarily in Africa.
We propose that the EUR 300 million plus that we are spending on tobacco production should be reallocated and then truly made available to small dairy farmers.
My final comment is on the recovery plan.
The Council does indeed dispute this policy, believing that we should not ask the Member States for more money.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, it is unbelievable that in these times of financial and economic crisis, the European Commission proposes an increase of almost 5% for the 2010 budget.
But what is worse is that, while the Council, at its first reading in July, put forward a reduction of almost 2% on the preliminary draft budget, this Parliament is now proposing an increase of 5% on it.
It is all very nice to want to subsidise the Special Olympics in Poland and Greece and the European Youth Olympic Winter Festival in the Czech Republic, or even Xacobeo 2010, but our constituents have other priorities in their lives, such as paying their mortgages and giving a reasonable education to their children.
The daily cost of the European Union for the United Kingdom currently amounts to GBP 45 million per day and the proposed increase will bring it to GBP 50 million or more with the reduction of the rebate.
In order for the money from these funds to actually reach those affected, I think it is important both to redesign these processes to be more efficient and to ensure crystal clear oversight, as the Globalisation Adjustment Fund must in no way be confused with an EU back-up for the multinationals.
Madam President, honourable Members, Commissioner, due to some slight delays, I will have to leave Parliament very shortly, as my flight leaves in 45 minutes.
In its proposal, Parliament invests and increases expenditure substantially compared with 2009.
The Council is also investing more, but it is also investing more selectively.
With regard to Parliament's budget, I am overjoyed that our main proposals have been taken into account, both in the budget itself and in the draft resolution.
Finally, my congratulations to the rapporteurs László Surján and Vladimír Maňka.
The Presidency's criticism is directed not just at the European Parliament, but also at the Commission, because most of what we are doing concerns restoring the cuts in the Commission's budgetary proposal that the Council wants to force through and, in addition, focusing on measures for job creation.
This year's budget debate looks set to become something of a battle between the Council and the Commission.
Nonetheless, almost a year after the Plan was launched, we still have no tangible proposals from the Council or the Swedish Presidency concerning where the money is to come from.
I find that surprising, because it means that everything that needs to be done must be financed from other sources that have already been earmarked for other important objectives.
We want an allocation of EUR 20 million, equivalent to SEK 200 million.
It is an important contribution. (PL) Madam President, as we all know, the most important budget items in the financial year 2010, and an evaluation of the budget, were set out in a resolution of 10 March this year.
However, the cuts introduced by the Council would limit growth and job creation, or simply render them impossible.
This is what our electors charged us with six months ago. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the world economic crisis in which we currently find ourselves cannot yet be foreseen.
The European Union decides on new focal areas in its budget.
The expenditure on strategic military security research is being almost doubled and will now rise to a total of EUR 215 million.
However, the overall result too often comes down to spending more money, even though the Council had already made less rigorous cutbacks in the draft budget than in other years.
The European Union and the Member States must help ensure that children from homes can grow up in families as far as possible.
Each Dutch citizen pays a staggering EUR 267 to Europe every year.
These new responsibilities affect all of us, whether we are MEPs, members of the Council or members of the Commission.
Firstly, the funding of the European Economic Recovery Plan.
We have been negotiating for a year and we have still not been able to secure EUR 5 billion out of an overall European Union budget which this year amounts to more than EUR 130 billion.
Firstly, we lost a budget surplus from 2008 and now we do not have the funding guaranteed.
The Council and the Commission have just accepted EUR 280 million.
In any case, these EUR 280 million are not part of the Dairy Fund, but rather we are talking about a one-off intervention.
The President-in-Office of the Council said that there would be a 7.3% increase in funding for research.
This reserve is designed to obtain information about the 70% about whom we currently know nothing.
I am very grateful to Commissioner Šemeta for the fact that the Commission, under his leadership, has now, for the first time, carried out a consultation amongst subsidy recipients on the subject of 'Obstacles and difficulties in the application procedure'.
Thank you very much, Mrs Gräßle.
That makes it much easier to answer afterwards. (NL) Madam President, I should very much like to contribute from the perspective of the Committee on Regional Development.
It is necessary to be alert in a time of crisis, and the European Parliament and the Commission have done so in the proposals that were adopted just before the recess.
We have more flexibility, we can provide our budgets earlier, and we can invest more in energy-efficient buildings and housing, for example.
Sustainability policy is an excellent thing, of course, but adopting such a proposal in its entirety would give rise to a great many unrealistic expectations in the regions and also among our fellow Members.
As regards the creation of this EUR 300 million milk fund, which was the figure proposed by we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and in the Committee on Budgets, I should like to make two comments.
Firstly, I wish to denounce the demagogy of a number of MEPs, who are calling for this fund to be given more than EUR 600 million, which is quite simply impractical and, above all, irresponsible, since that kind of sum would lead to drastic cuts in appropriations for other agricultural sectors or would compromise the financing of our recovery plan.
I also wish to highlight my surprise, not to say my disappointment, at seeing Commissioner Fischer Boel take sole credit for this fund in the media, as if the Committee on Budgets had not worked on it, or its work were useless.
Commissioner Verheugen has promised that he will use these funds accordingly.
Doing so is especially important in a crisis situation, and the SOLVIT programme is also to be significantly reinforced.
The financial crisis Recovery Plan and the milk crisis have made the budgetary procedure for the coming year very challenging.
The economic situation has meant that the Member States are keeping their purse strings tight where it concerns the forthcoming budget.
So, although the recovery plan was welcome and indeed necessary, we must not now cut important lines under Heading 1 to fund the GBP 1.98 billion required.
I am therefore particularly glad that the Committee on Budgets and the rapporteur himself have taken a positive view of the amendment on holding the Special Olympics.
I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to appeal to the Council to look favourably on this financial commitment, and to ask the European Commission for help in practical matters relating to the organisation of this annual event. (PL) Madam President, the proposed budget has to be a direct measure in the fight against the crisis.
This is because the Army also generates new technologies, and can create new, modern jobs.
I want to know: what happens to the money when it is not utilised by the particular government; whether the same happens in other countries; where this money goes and how is it utilised when it is not used within the country for which it is designated. (LT) Firstly, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Commissioner Algirdas Šemeta, who today, with Parliament's approval, participated probably for the first time in such a debate.
I believe that the same sort of problems also exist in some of the other small Member States of the European Union which today lack funding.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I will be very brief.
I just wanted to respond concretely to this very important issue of milk funds and say that what Mrs Fischer Boel stated yesterday was the commitment by the Commission to come up with a proposal on certain amounts of money, namely EUR 280 million.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Šemeta.
There were a few more questions from the Members, but it is my understanding that you do not want to answer Mr Garriga and the other Members directly.
At the same time, I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that some people here very enthusiastically referred to each proposal in the past tense: we raised and arranged it, and this is the way it will be.
The political message is about how this Parliament would like to lead the European Union to greener pastures.
I would like to thank the Secretary-General of the European Parliament and all of the representatives of the Directorates-General of the European Parliament; we have been working together since January looking for the best solutions to help us make effective use of the financial resources of Europe's citizens.
I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and coordinators.
I had the feeling in our discussions that we really were looking for positive solutions.
I would like to thank my advisers and the staff of the Committee on Budgets.
I would like to applaud the method of creating budgets at these institutions, which are already creating their budgets not only on the basis of the inflation rate, but also on the basis of real needs.
Written statements (Rule 149) The draft Community budget for 2010 is much too low given that we are in the midst of an economic and social crisis, with a dramatic effect on employment and the living conditions of many people.
It is unfortunate that other proposals with a significant social and environmental impact were not accepted during the budget discussions, including, for example: A development programme for Portuguese industry; A programme for supporting the textile and clothing industry; A programme for supporting small-scale, artisanal coastal fisheries; An increase in funding for the LIFE+ programme.
Preparing a budget is never an easy process, even less so during an economic crisis.
The European Parliament has undoubtedly a crucial role to play in this debate.
The EU budget needs to make full use of the financial margins to respond to the economic crisis.
We must send out a strong message to the capitals of Europe, and especially to Bucharest, in my case.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the fact that the pilot programme for Roma social integration proposed by the European Parliament in 2009 is still included in the 2010 Community budget.
I should like to raise a question which is significant for the economy and employment, and not only in my own country.
We expect to receive a proposal from the Commission in the near future on the possible extension of current antidumping duties imposed on the importing of footwear with leather uppers from China and Vietnam.
The positions of individual Member States on this matter are very different.
in writing. - I welcome the proposal of the draft budget for 2010 as it is a balanced report, taking into consideration in a realistic manner the EU's priorities.
However, the sum being proposed for setting up this fund, which is EUR 300 million, is the maximum amount compatible with the budgetary ceiling.
