Electronic communications networks, personal data and the protection of privacy - Electronic communications networks and services - Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC) and the Office - Frequency bands for mobile communications (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks, Directive 2002/58/EC concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (16497/1/2008 - C6-0068/2009 - (Rapporteur: Mr Harbour), the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services, 2002/19/EC on access to, and interconnection of, electronic communications networks and associated facilities, and 2002/20/EC on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (16496/1/2008 - C6-0066/2009 - (Rapporteur: Mrs Trautmann), the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on the Council common position for adopting a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Electronic Communications Market Authority (16498/1/2008 - C6-0067/2009 - (Rapporteur: Mrs del Castillo Vera), and the report by Mrs Pleguezuelos Aguilar, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 87/372/EEC on the frequency bands to be reserved for the coordinated introduction of public pan-European cellular digital land-based mobile communications in the Community - C6-0452/2008 -.
rapporteur. - Madam President, it is a privilege this morning to be opening this most important debate and inviting our colleagues to support the reform to the telecom package that we have on the table.
It is an important reform because the existing package that I worked on with colleagues back in 2001 and 2002 has worked very well for the European economy.
But this reform brings that up to date and my colleagues will explain the areas that they want to work on.
In my four minutes this morning, I do not have time to go through all the points and all the improvements that we have made in great detail.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on the telecoms package, the final stage that will mark the end of months of work and negotiations to arrive at this compromise, which was reached after much wrangling with the Council in a context where the three institutions started from very different positions.
I want first of all to thank very sincerely Mrs del Castillo Vera, Mr Harbour, Mrs Pleguezuelos Aguilar, the shadow rapporteurs, the political groups, the chairmen of the committees and their secretariats, the Presidency of the Council and the European Commission for their tireless work throughout these long months, and I thank all those fellow Members who have chosen to place their confidence in me by giving me their support.
The spirit and the letter of Amendment 46 have therefore been respected and extended for the benefit of users, and the rejection of this amendment by Member States on the grounds that the European Parliament cannot impose a change in their internal judicial organisation - which would be required in order to implement this amendment - has thus been avoided.
This therefore rectifies the legal weakness that resulted from linking Amendment 46 to Article 8, which defines the tasks of national regulators.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a choice: to support Amendment 46 as it is, and thus refer the whole telecoms package back to a conciliation process, which will reopen the discussion on all the points established in the negotiations and will lead to its being quashed because of the massive opposition from Member States to this amendment, or to support the new wording of Amendment 46, which ensures respect for fundamental freedoms, thus confirming what Parliament adopted at the time of the vote on the Lambrinidis report.
rapporteur. - (ES) Madam President, I wish to begin, like the other rapporteurs, Catherine Trautmann and Malcolm Harbour, by thanking them, firstly, for the extraordinary opportunity I have had to work on this reform of the European regulation of telecommunications markets because, in my view and still limited experience in this Parliament, it has been a model of cooperation between different Members from different groups.
In that context, I feel that this directive is a fine example to give spectrum management greater flexibility, as the reform of this telecommunications package intends.
The results include new consumer rights, such as the right to switch phone operators in one working day, the establishment of a European telecoms authority, more interdependence for national telecom regulators, measures to ensure that Europeans can be connected to broadband Internet, the opening of radio spectrum for use by new wireless services, the new instrument of functional separation to boost competition and broaden consumer choice, a clear pro-competitive rule for investment in high-speed broadband networks, better rights and new guarantees for consumers, mechanisms to address data breaches, and so on and so forth.
I welcome also - and Parliament has always supported this - the fact that disabled people will have a stronger position.
I welcome most of all that now consumers will benefit from guarantees in relation to privacy, freedom of expression and access to information.
The first one clarifies that the Commission will promote a wide debate on the scope of universal service and will come forward with early proposals as necessary.
The Commission wishes in this context to reaffirm that, as stated in its Communication COM (2008) 572 of 25 September 2008 on the scope of universal service in electronic communications networks and services, it will in the course of 2009 promote an extensive debate at EU level that will examine a wide range of alternative approaches and allow all interested parties to express their views.
In addition, the Commission will consult with the Article 29 Working Party and the European Data Protection Supervisor on the potential for the application in other sectors of the principles embodied in the data breach notification rules in Directive 2002/58/EC, regardless of the sector or type of data concerned.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by thanking all those who have helped make it possible to reach a satisfactory compromise on the telecom package at the end of the day.
I would like to single out what in my view is the most important point.
All in all therefore, a good compromise, and I hope it will find broad support tomorrow!
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, it is fascinating to follow this debate - colleagues have already laid out the main topics and the Commissioner has made her statement - but to see that the Council is completely absent tells us a lot about the way we sometimes operate in the European Union.
I hope that those guidelines will follow the philosophy established in this House, from which I hope the Commissioner will not depart.
On the universal service part, I hope that the Commissioner will find a way of ensuring that the telecom operators, which will now profit from new investment possibilities will, for their part, invest to make sure that all citizens have access to broadband in the future.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, as shadow rapporteur for the Liberal Group, I would like to thank Malcolm Harbour and my other colleagues for their excellent cooperation.
The provisions on traffic management policies were a controversial point in the report, but I strongly believe that the compromise protects users' rights to access content and use services of their own choice.
I also believe that all measures regarding access to, and use of, services should respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens, and this has also been safeguarded in the report.
This proposal, as it has now been brokered, will, in a much more balanced way, take into account the relationship between the market and what the market can create, and the tasks of the state.
I know that the original Amendment 138 did not have the optimal form judicially.
However, I see that the compromise which has now been found fails to guarantee that, before the fundamental rights of a citizen in the European Union are restricted, a judge will be involved in this decision to restrict fundamental rights.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Thank you, Madam President.
Admittedly, the negotiations have not been easy either in Parliament or with the Council and the Commission, but opinions have changed a great deal since the first vote in parliamentary committee, where content-related issues completely overshadowed the rest of the elements of this package.
The final text is very clear on this matter.
Today we must stand behind the block of citizens' amendments that have been tabled, as the best way of defending those rights of our citizens.
The aim of this proposal should be to protect those who need protection, but also to strengthen the rights of citizens to access information within the law when and where they see fit.
Finally, I hope that this Parliament will stand with our citizens this week in supporting the citizens' amendment package, thereby standing in favour of the freedom of Internet users and civil liberties across the Union. (DA) Madam President, Commissioner, I do not think that the compromise is good enough where the rights of citizens are concerned.
I remain convinced, however, that the contents of Amendment 138 are absolutely laudable and should therefore... (The President cut off the speaker) (SV) Thank you, Madam President.
I am sometimes surprised when those who are opposed to the European Union and to the Treaty of Lisbon demand a higher authority than the Member States that they vote against in all other contexts.
However, in the introduction to the legislation we have ensured a clear division of what legal authorities must do and what Internet operators must do.
The requirements of Amendment 138 are therefore met and the various threats that existed have been eliminated.
I am referring to the words in Article 8 about ensuring access to incumbents and their approach to the market.
It seems to me that the deal that was done on this wording in a private conversation between Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Chancellor Merkel has given incumbents, such as Deutsche Telekom, a huge advantage.
In particular, market access for small and medium-sized enterprises is quite an important prerequisite for ensuring that a good service is being offered, that network neutrality is implemented and that we of course authorise the independent regulatory authorities in the Member States to represent their industry and their enterprises, but also their consumers in other European countries.
The enforcement of the rights of citizens of one nation in another Member State is of particular significance to small and medium-sized enterprises, and we should ensure that in future broadband continues to be used for the benefit of the population and prices drop, because with the very dynamic development of broadband services and the Internet that is currently taking place, especially in the area of telephony, we have completely new possibilities for the use of broadband.
For that reason I am also grateful that the GSM 900 frequency band is also at the disposal of UMTS and that, for the first time, some thought has been given to the fourth generation network, which will hopefully receive the continued support of the Commission, so that we have comprehensive support for the provision of broadband, especially in rural areas.
The weakness of this draft lies in the failure to take into account the case law relating to Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights.
There are people who are afraid of the Internet, people who do not understand its development or its interest.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and in particular my colleague, Pilar del Castillo Vera, on making big improvements to the Commission proposal for the regulators by turning it into this Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC).
If nothing else, this part of the package has provoked a torrent of e-mail lobbying, and I have to say to those people who believe that large volumes of e-mails and many words will prevail, that they very quickly become counterproductive.
I know that the committee and in particular Mrs Trautmann have shown much commitment, to achieve two goals: on the one hand to create a basis for modernisation, for the continued technical revolution in Europe in terms of the creation of new jobs, and also in terms of the competitiveness of our continent - thus also making an important contribution to Lisbon - and on the other hand, to protect consumer rights, which have already been mentioned here several times.
Nevertheless, I am utterly convinced that we should not intervene without a judicial decision.
I have to say I find this extremely irritating.
The Council bears just as much responsibility for reaching a compromise as the European Parliament.
I think, in fact I am convinced, ... (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the Commission, Mrs Trautmann and Mr Harbour, who have succeeded in reaching a last-minute compromise.
After two years of intense work, we have achieved this compromise in an area that will mark the future of a leading industrial sector.
The Commission's proposal on use of the spectrum has been amended in the right direction, with respect shown for the achievements in satellite technology, and the Commission's announcement of a future debate on universal service and the other legal problems that still remain suggests that the work will continue.
This project will provide citizens with extraordinary access to information and culture.
I think that this project represents a considerable advance.
The Commission should be able to contribute to this by setting up a common task force to find common principles and a balance between the different interests within this important area.
Finally, I should like to congratulate Commissioner Reding and the rapporteurs on their good work. (FR) Madam President, I would like first to thank Mrs Reding, our Commissioner, the French Presidency, which in December came to a very intelligent common position, and then the Czech Presidency, which has just achieved its aim.
The virtual world is not a lawless world and it must not submit only to the power of advertising brought in by operators and Internet access providers.
However, I would like to say clearly that citizens cannot have an unlimited right to unrestricted illegal downloading!
However, we have still to find this new social contract in the knowledge society between copyright and the protection of fundamental rights.
Madam President, thank you to all those who have made it possible for this very important package to see the light of day.
I am thinking, of course, of the rapporteurs and their colleagues, but I am thinking also of the Czech Presidency, and I would like to say here, officially, that the ambassador, Mrs Reinišová, has been fantastic in the way she has cooperated with Parliament and the Commission to make this project possible.
The new rules confirm this and say at the same time that effective competition and non-discrimination rules have to be maintained.
The second question concerns data breaches.
The new rules therefore introduce mandatory notifications for personal data breaches for the first time in European law.
In addition, the rules concerning privacy and data protection are strengthened in such areas as the use of cookies and similar devices.
Internet users will be better informed about what happens to their personal data and will find it easier to exercise control over their personal information in practice.
A second element concerns a more open and neutral Internet for consumers.
The new rules recognise explicitly that Internet access is a fundamental right such as the freedom of expression and the freedom to access information.
Furthermore, I would like to say something about freedom on the Internet, because many Members have spoken about it.
The compromise reached is a victory for the freedom of citizens and of Internet users.
Thirdly, the compromise confirms that the option must always be provided to refer a case to a judge, an independent and impartial court, whose decision must be respected.
All that is included in the compromise, and I think that, on the basis of this compromise, the work that the Commission and Parliament will be undertaking in the very near future will have a solid foundation that will underline the rights of our citizens and the intrinsic values of our Europe.
I welcome in particular the support Parliament has given me and my colleagues on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection for the significant improvements we have made on the users' rights and data privacy elements of the directive.
Thank you, Commissioner, for the key declarations that you made in the areas of data protection and universal service which will enable us to work with you to make progress in these crucial areas.
Madam President, thank you very much, Commissioner, for your statement, which sheds very positive light on the debate that has just taken place, and I thank all those fellow Members who took part.
This vote will also make it possible to ensure a balance between the rights of States and the competences of the Commission, between the old operators and the new entrants, thanks to the non-discrimination clauses, but it will also signify that progress is being made by the European Parliament itself, in the exercise of its codecision powers, particularly in the matter of spectrum policy allocation, which is considered a public good, and in the support it expresses, once again, for broadcasters and services.
I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that I am delighted by the prospect of a wide, multi-partnership-style public consultation, which will allow us to follow up on our hard work, in the framework of a compromise that respects the law set out in Amendment 46 and makes it applicable.
rapporteur. - (ES) Madam President, briefly I would like to reiterate my thanks to all those who have played a part in this already lengthy debate process on the telecommunications package: the Commissioner, the other rapporteurs; in short, all those who have been involved besides the Presidency-in-Office of the Council.
Madam President, I wish to reiterate my thanks to all my fellow Members for their speeches and for this debate which has been a very positive one indeed.
Yet I feel that the compromise has also resolved that aspect well because, as has been said, for the first time the scope of the two directives, in Article 1, includes the recognition of fundamental rights and freedoms as well as Internet access.
I believe that many European citizens would like an answer from the Council as to why they are opposed to a text which expressly states that no one should be excluded from the Internet without a prior ruling by a court.
This is why I feel very strongly that we should restore the two most important amendments, numbers 138 and 166, which were adopted by Parliament at first reading in September 2008.
In the form in which they have been submitted for second reading on 6 May, both amendments, which have apparently only been modified but in fact have been significantly changed, are a serious threat to freedom of expression, freedom of access to the Internet and the right to information - pillars of modern, democratic, civic societies.
in writing. - (ET) The new rules presented in the new telecommunications package will help regulate the telecommunications market and promote consumer protection.
