I therefore call for more professionalism and better salaries for those who hold the lives of maritime passengers in their hands. (MT) On this report I would like to say that despite its initiative in favour of the environment, there was still a lack of consideration regarding the negative and disproportionate effects that it would have on the regions and countries that are situated on the periphery of the European Union, as Malta is.
Therefore, I voted against this report. (PL) Madam President, imposing additional charges on heavy goods vehicles represents an increase in taxation.
We all know that, when different parties are involved in sensitive political negotiations, sometimes there is a need for secrecy in order to avoid a deal being scuppered.
With the looming economic crisis, the Roma may be able to help solve some of Europe's deepest problems.
I too, of course, share everyone's view that the Roma should be treated correctly, but most of the problems mentioned in this report are attributable to a lifestyle, a way of living, that these people have actively chosen.
We can adopt as many reports and resolutions and give as much money as we like, but this will not change the situation on the ground one bit. (NL) Madam President, in this Parliament I have heard a great deal of politically correct nonsense in my time, which was invariably approved by very large majorities, but this report takes the biscuit in my view.
If this Parliament is intent on interfering in the social situation of the Roma and their access to the labour market, would it be asking too much to observe a minimum of objectivity?
Madam President, while the amended version was an improvement, it was still with a heavy heart that I supported this own-initiative report, since it was not consistent with the climate and energy package carried by a huge majority in this House on 17 December 2008.
Just to remind us, my own EU-ETS report, which was the cornerstone of this package, was carried by 610 votes for, 60 abstentions, and 29 against.
It is because it lacks teeth in this area and so many others that I abstained on this report. (FI) Madam President, the Lisbon Strategy is worth supporting, but it has to be said in this regard that the idea that Europe might be the world's leading knowledge-based economy by 2010 is not going to be realised.
This is the priority if we really want to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. (NL) Madam President, I have abstained from the vote on the resolution on the Lisbon Strategy, even though the resolution is, in fact, on the whole, a very even-handed resolution which gives an accurate diagnosis of the situation and also contains many proposals which I fully endorse.
I abstained, though, because the subject of these notorious blue cards for economic immigration has once again been brought up and is receiving emphatic support precisely at a time when more than 20 million people in the European Union face unemployment, which is set to increase even further due to the economic crisis.
As he correctly said, the Lisbon Strategy commits the EU to becoming, slightly ironically, the most competitive economy in the world by 2010.
The question is: will the Commission finally abandon its recruitment centres in countries such as Mali and Senegal to import even more unemployment?
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg's report on the exemption from value added tax on the final importation of certain goods (codified version).
Madam President, I voted in favour.
Romania has emerged from the flooding exhausted, not only economically and environmentally, but also in social terms.
I therefore welcome the opinion of the Committee on Budgets and hope that the EUR 11 785 377 from the Solidarity Fund will be made available to Romania as soon as possible, in order to lift the population economically, environmentally and socially.
One practical expression of this principle is undoubtedly the Solidarity Fund, established in 2006 in accordance with an interinstitutional agreement and in order to eliminate the negative consequences of major natural disasters.
Nonetheless, I fully endorse this tangible evidence of European solidarity.
I voted in favour of this report as it will help mobilise the Solidarity Fund much more quickly.
In 2006, the payment made by the European Union via the Solidarity Fund in aid to Romania after the floods in April and August was delayed by a year.
I voted in favour of the report drafted by Jutta Haug (Germany) as it requests the mobilisation of EUR 11.8 million from the EU Solidarity Fund (EUSF) to help the victims of the floods which hit Romania in July 2008.
Gheorghe Flutur, Chairman of Suceava County Council, pleaded their case in Brussels at the European Parliament.
I believe that Romania needs a larger sum to repair the damage caused by flooding, but the EU's assistance is necessary and welcome.
The first amending budget for 2009 relates to the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund for Romania, following the floods that hit that country in July 2008.
The objective of this Fund is to enable the Community to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to 'emergency situations' in the various Member States.
I voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund for Romania as I feel that the financial aid given to our country provides important, necessary support for the locations hit by flash floods in July last year.
I think that early detection of the causes which result in natural disasters of this magnitude or even more serious ones is the most important step towards protecting Europe's citizens.
This means that particular attention must be focused on these aspects in order to implement a policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
The extreme weather phenomena witnessed in Romania in recent years have caused floods and drought and have resulted in the need to tackle the issue of climate change with the utmost seriousness, expertise and responsibility.
I voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget No 1/2009 of the European Union for the financial year 2009.
The aim of the report is to mobilise EUR 11.8 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the EU Solidarity Fund relating to the effects of the floods which hit Romania in July 2008.
in writing. - Malta is one of the main EU states with a substantial tonnage on its register books.
The so-called rich countries are responding by creating their own (mark II) flag to combat the loss of freight.
I have already explained the reasons prompting me to support the work carried out by the rapporteur in relation to the third maritime package, and the advantages that the planned measures could bring in terms of maritime transport safety and improvements to the existing regulations.
As such, I confirm my vote in favour.
I should like to express my support for the agreement which has been reached, and in particular for these points: extension of scope to include also vessels calling at anchorages, increased frequency of inspection of vessels, and permanent banning of vessels under certain conditions.
I agree with the part of the agreement reached about extending the scope of the directive to include vessels that call at anchorages and with that part about increasing the inspection rate of vessels in the highest risk category.
I also agree that, under certain conditions, vessels should be refused access permanently, in order to guarantee adequate safety levels for operators and passengers.
For these reasons, we abstained in the final vote on this report.
I voted in favour of adoption of the Report on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2002/59/EC establishing a Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system.
in writing. - (IT) I believe that the maritime package should be considered globally and as a whole, in line with the approach Parliament has always taken when dealing with its individual parts.
I voted in favour of this report by the Czech Member of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, Jaromír Kohlíček, on the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector.
I voted in favour of adoption of the Report on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the fundamental principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and amending Directives 1999/35/EC and 2002/59/EC.
I should like to express my support for the agreement which has been reached and, in particular, for these points: the methodology for investigating accidents, a decision on the investigation, fair treatment of seafarers, and protection of witnesses/confidentiality of records.
This is why I voted in favour of the report.
I agree with him that it is highly appropriate for the provisions of the Athens Convention of 1974 relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea to be incorporated into European law, since the national differences that still exist do not make it possible to guarantee an adequate level of liability and mandatory insurance in the event of accidents involving passengers.
Although this does not happen for other means of transport, I believe that the legislation should be fit for purpose in the case of maritime transport as well.
I agree that the amount of insurance should be set at the ceilings laid down by the LLMC Convention of 1996, which guarantees that the victims of accidents at sea are properly compensated.
However, to ensure that the EU's environmental policy is sustainable, the principles of the EU and the different characteristics and needs of each Member State must be included.
The Eurovignette report contradicts these aims in the case of the peripheral Member States of the European Union.
Lorries from other countries will not be coming through Ireland, but our heavy goods vehicles will have to pay a fee in many countries throughout Europe.
There is no way around this: we must carry on business, we must export and import our goods.
I voted in favour of the El Khadraoui report on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures.
It is important to give the Member States the opportunity to apply 'smarter' payments for the road haulage sector to cover the external costs and thus encourage more sustainable behaviour.
SMEs in the road transport sector will not be able to bear these additional costs in the midst of this economic crisis.
During today's vote, the European Parliament adopted a draft directive concerning Eurovignettes, which makes it possible for Member States to impose charges for the use of road infrastructure by heavy good vehicles.
These costs might be particularly detrimental to small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have sufficient financial means available to allow them to replace their fleets.
Furthermore, such provisions may also cause difficulties for firms during the present financial crisis, when many firms are facing increased difficulty in obtaining credit.
in writing. - On behalf of my Fine Gael colleagues in the Parliament I would like to clarify that we did not vote in support of the El Khadraoui report on the charging of HGVs, due to concerns over the legal basis for the proposal, concerns regarding the compulsory use of electronic tolling and the provision for earmarking of revenue.
This type of regulation shows that the EU is turning its back on its citizens.
Together with the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I have been fighting for years - in the face of huge opposition from parts of the conservative Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats - to have the external costs (noise, congestion, pollution) included in the calculation of tolls, in order to transfer the financial burden from the taxpayer to the polluter, in other words, the heavy goods traffic.
It is likely that CO2 will also not be included in the calculation because of the incomprehensible opposition of the PPE-DE.
in writing. - I support this report which should encourage the shift of freight from the road onto rail.
The report is part of a package of initiatives aimed at making transport more sustainable, and ensuring that users will only have to pay the transport costs directly related to their use of that particular mode of transport.
in writing. - (DE) Heavy goods traffic in Europe has increased since the EU expansion to the East and this is particularly noticeable in many Member States, including Austria.
Heavy goods transport throughout Europe is one of these factors and another is nuclear power stations.
The Eurovignette under consideration today seems to represent a reasonable compromise which is why I have voted in favour of it.
A number of amendments to the 1999 EC directive providing for taxation of the heavy goods vehicles that use certain roads are therefore welcome.
These kinds of steps forward must be reasonable and gradual in order to prevent the collapse of an important sector of the economy in the current serious economic crisis, a sector almost exclusively based on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Moreover, Europe has not yet created a complete and effective intermodal system that would ensure a significant transition of freight transport towards less polluting sectors.
While I do not agree on some points such as including or not including certain external costs in the charge, I do agree with the 'polluter pays' principle.
Lastly, I believe that the revenue generated by charging external costs must not end up being another form of taxation.
Moreover, in this way, we encourage transport companies to invest in cleaner lorries.
If we could use the proceeds from this levy to invest in transport by rail or water, we would address both the traffic jam problem and climate change.
As regards Amendments 61 and 103 relating to Article 5, we believe that conciliation documents from the third reading should be made accessible immediately after the final conciliation meeting has ended, in contrast to the documents that are examined in the negotiations themselves.
It is particularly important that details of all payments of expenses made to MEPs by Parliament be made publicly available.
I support his commendable initiative, which is designed to bridge the gap between the common rules on 'classified information' (the so-called sensitive documents cited in the current Regulation No 1049/2001), by maintaining at regulation level some good principles taken from the internal security rules of the Council and Commission as far as these principles can also be applicable to a parliamentary body.
There is no doubt that the 2001 regulation brought about greater transparency for citizens by granting the public access to documents of the European institutions.
Back in 2006, the European Parliament made many proposals to change the regulation with a view to improving transparency even more, but the Commission failed to give this any serious consideration.
What is more, the Commission proposal to review the 2001 regulation that is now before us contains stricter rules, which means less transparency.
We must rise to the challenges associated with the rise in unemployment and social exclusion.
Furthermore, we need to improve the coordination of efforts, both on the part of the EU and the Member States, but it is equally important that the measures adopted within the framework of the economic recovery plan to address the crisis in the short term are consistent with the Community's long-term goals set out in the Lisbon Strategy.
That is why I voted in favour of the report.
This painful observation should make the pro-Europeans think about the radical reforms needed at Member State level to limit as much as possible the disastrous consequences of the economic and financial crisis, a crisis which originated in the ultra-liberalism and globalisation that are so dear to Brussels.
On the contrary, we need to call into question this authoritarian logic and give the States back control of their economic and financial resources, whilst introducing national and Community preference and protection, which would enable the recovery of the internal market and a return to growth.
The experts do not agree on the best response to this crisis and the best way of stimulating the economy in order to keep the unemployment figures in check.
It is by no means certain that the measures presented in this report are suitable or satisfactory in this respect.
For this reason, I have voted against the report.
I voted against Mr Andersson's report.
I voted in favour of the draft European Parliament legislative resolution on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States because I join the rapporteur in supporting the Commission's position, which proposed (as set out in the Annex to Council Decision 2008/618/EC of 15 July 2008) that employment policies are maintained for 2009.
According to the Commission, this approach will create a sound framework capable of tackling the economic and financial crisis as well as continuing structural reform.
On the other hand, we need to create jobs and, to do this, the conditions must exist for investment by companies.
A number of years have already passed since the accession of certain countries for which the limitation on the use of their language remains, in particular, Ireland and the Czech Republic, without the required linguists having been found.
We cannot accept this discrimination.
I voted in favour of the Bureau's proposal for a decision extending the applicability of Rule 139 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure until the end of the seventh parliamentary term.
Adopting extreme measures with regard to Roma communities could however exacerbate the already terrible situation for these minorities and undermine opportunities for integration and social inclusion.
We must not forget that, under the rule of law, criminal liability is individual and cannot be attributed to collective groups.
It is important to adopt clear employment policies for disadvantaged groups, including the Roma labour force, establishing support measures aimed at facilitating their progressive integration into the labour market and paying greater attention to education policies for young people.
in writing. - (SV) The EU is a union of values and therefore responsible for maintaining respect for human rights within its borders.
It also therefore has a part to play, via its Member States, in recognising the vulnerable situation of the Roma and in facilitating their integration into society.
We have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (SV) We have today voted in favour of the own-initiative report by Mrs Kósáné Kovács on the social situation of the Roma and their improved access to the labour market in the EU.
The report addresses a very serious problem and clearly indicates the need for action to get to grips with the widespread exclusion that affects many Roma today.
We welcome cooperation between Member States in dealing with these huge problems.
The report from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is welcome as it highlights a new aspect to the Roma inclusion strategy, devised, starting in 2005, over a series of European Parliament resolutions.
The Roma's current situation shows that sufficient progress has not been made in integrating the Roma since the Commission launched its first appeal to this effect in 2005.
The report proposes important directives for action regarding the policy for promoting education among the Roma and encouraging positive discrimination on the labour market.
Creating an EU-level expert group, including representatives of the Roma, could also help coordinate Member States' Roma strategy and the use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
in writing. - Roma people represent the biggest minority in the European Union and their integration into European society is one of the biggest challenges the EU will face in the coming decade.
Guaranteeing equal opportunities to the Roma minority in the EU is the right approach in order to avoid social exclusion and respect this community's rights.
This is why I voted in favour of Mrs Kovács's report which I regard as being very helpful.
However, I would like to make a couple of clarifications about my position on this matter.
Given that this minority is inherently transnational, an effective approach on Roma's rights can only be handled at European level.
For this reason, I have suggested the creation of a European agency for Roma, with the role of coordinating at European level policies targeted at this minority.
Secondly, support for the Roma minority's integration cannot be given through redistributive fiscal measures as they cannot resolve the structural problems affecting Roma communities.
The ideal way of supporting this minority must be geared towards education programmes, whose role is to help these communities acquire the skills required to access the labour market.
I voted against Mrs Kósáné Kovács's report on the social situation of the Roma and their improved access to the labour market in the EU.
I firmly believe that this approach creates another form of fundamental discrimination in relation to the Roma.
The Roma must, in fact, be treated like all other citizens, without their enjoying excessive benefits and concessions that are to the detriment of other European citizens, who have the same rights (and, above all, duties) as that population.
In addition, the human and social capital must be reinforced by focusing from the outset on their integration in European society.
The huge growth in demand beyond the EU's borders alone will determine this.
Therefore, from the point of view of the security of energy supply in the EU, it will be very important to reduce the growth in demand at global level as well, but without endangering the development goals of third countries or the EU itself.
The promotion of market economy price setting mechanisms in third countries is also very important - for example, after eliminating state fuel subsidies.
in writing. - On balance, I can support this own initiative report from my colleague, MEP Reul.
The cooperation that is necessary from all Member States and the need to take advantage of the stimulus packages currently launched by almost all Member States and the Commission underscore the need for investment in renewable technology to increase our energy security and decrease our CO2 emissions.
It is important that we consider the needs of peripheral European countries who encounter several geographic barriers that depend on a strong transport network to supply their countries, and for their economic growth.
I voted in favour of Mr Jarzembowski's report on the greening of transport and the internalisation of external costs.
It is very positive, to my mind - and is also something that I encourage - that green measures are being worked out in the area of transport.
The Jarzembowski report, however, would weaken the Commission proposals.
This will help us in our fight against climate change.
If we fail to stem the rise of poverty in the EU as a result of the existing exceptional circumstances, then the EU will have failed to address the most important issue stemming from this economic and financial calamity.
The policies enshrined in the Lisbon Strategy and in the European Employment Strategy have contributed to this situation as they promote financial deregulation, market liberalisation and insecurity in labour relations.
in writing. - I voted for this report despite my disappointment at Amendment 10 by the Greens calling for the introduction of an EU-wide financial transaction tax.
in writing. - The financial and resultant economic crisis have dwelt a huge blow to European growth and the stability of the job market.
In these difficult times, our primary aim must be, as this joint resolution says, to protect EU citizens, whether workers, entrepreneurs, householders, from the effects of the crisis.
While the current crisis is undoubtedly devastating, it also offers opportunity: opportunity to change our way of thinking; opportunity to build a strengthening framework for sustainable growth that can withstand potential shocks; and opportunity to build a sound economic and social base for the future.
Among the elements of this resolution that particularly appeal are the recognition of the crucial role of small and medium-sized enterprises and the support that needs to be given to them.
Not only do SMEs provide valuable employment, accounting for 80% of new jobs in the EU in recent years, but they also play a key social role in stimulating local economies, diversifying employment and encouraging entrepreneurship.
in writing. - The EPLP believes that the Lisbon Strategy remains an important platform for growth and job creation across the EU.
However, the EPLP does not agree that an EU-wide transaction tax is a necessary vehicle to achieve some of the Lisbon Strategy objectives and did not support this measure.
However, the EPLP could support the main thrust of the approved text and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - According to the Allianz Group report which was published on Monday, the recession is slowing the EU this year in reaching its goal of becoming the world's leading knowledge-based economic area.
In order for us to reach the Lisbon targets, we must do all we can, even in these tough times, to meet these goals.
We must also keep to the Barcelona targets on childcare.
They are promoting faster capitalist restructurings predicated on the 'flexicurity' strategy and the Directive on the organisation of working time, in other words on increasing working times by up to 13 hours a day and 78 hours a week and dividing working time into active time and unpaid inactive time.
in writing. - I agree that the EU maintains a leading role in international climate policy.
Limiting global average temperature increases is necessary not only in the developed world, but also in developing countries.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on combating climate change.
The European Union must maintain its leading role in international climate policy and make every effort to reach an agreement in Copenhagen allowing a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere and the limitation of the global temperature increase to less than 2 °C above pre-industrial levels.
Given the current financial and economic crisis, reaching a new agreement in Copenhagen on combating climate change is fundamental.
Likewise, we regard as positive the attention drawn to the need to significantly increase financial resources, in order to allow the necessary mitigation action in developing countries.
We need to see the current crisis as an opportunity to spend resources to achieve a step change in our lifestyles and promote a green new deal across the continent and the world.
We cannot achieve our goals unless we work in partnership with the US and Japan, China and India.
This must be a priority during the financial crisis.
in writing. - (SV) This resolution contains many deserving exhortations.
We do not believe that the EU's Globalisation Fund is the most effective way to support workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. - The initiative to launch the Recovery Plan is a reaction to the serious ongoing economic downturn.
The top priority of the Recovery Plan must be to stimulate the economy and competitiveness of the EU, and to avoid increased unemployment.
In addition, the Recovery Plan must also serve the purpose of delivering a fair international agreement to give poorer countries the opportunity to escape poverty without fuelling global warming, by helping to finance massive investment.
Among our rejected proposals were those calling for a significant increase in financial resources and quicker application of the funds intended to support employment, and also a redirection of support programmes towards the most vulnerable groups, including programmes guaranteeing decent living conditions and universal access to high-quality public services.
I also regret the rejection of proposals such as those which regarded the amount of the Recovery Plan (1.5% of EU GDP) to be insufficient to successfully tackle the current crisis, noting that the EU will lag far behind countries such as the United States and China.
in writing. - I can only congratulate my colleague Elisa Ferreira on her report on the European Economic Recovery Plan.
It is estimated that economic growth in Europe in 2009 will remain at a level below zero.
Determined action is therefore needed, leading to the creation of jobs and a real improvement in the economic situation.
This is particularly relevant to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are, surely, the foundation of the European economy.
I hope that the European Economic Recovery Plan will soon produce results in the form of the first signs of economic stimulation.
in writing. - (FR) Exceptional situations call for exceptional resources.
The exceptional situation we are experiencing does not call into question the basic rules of economics.
Deficits may be necessary, but there will be a heavy price to pay.
The question is worth asking, but the setting up of a common European Union recovery plan would presuppose fundamental reviews of European policies and resources.
The European Economic Recovery Plan is especially important because of its two key elements: firstly, short-term fiscal stimulus measures aimed at boosting demand, protecting jobs and restoring consumer confidence and secondly, smart investments to boost economic growth.
The European Union's number one priority is to protect its citizens from the adverse effects of the financial crisis.
In the case of the Romanian economy, these measures will show their effectiveness, especially for SMEs, by simplifying and speeding up procedures and providing Structural and Cohesion Funds, as well as rural development funds, in advance.
The positive vote given to this report also means that the European Social Fund will have to finance measures promoting employment, especially in favour of the most vulnerable population groups.
I voted in favour of Mrs Ferreira's report in the firm belief that it will help overcome the difficult economic period which Europe is going through, following the neo-liberal policies of the last 10 years.
In our view, as European socialists, we must act to eliminate the differences between the more developed countries and developing countries, all the more so as the latter countries' economies are closely linked to the banking institutions in the West.
This is why we need a plan to coordinate the economies of all Member States.
We support the introduction of measures against offshore financial activities which allow very high-earners to switch their businesses to these tax havens, without paying any tax, while the majority of EU citizens are paying taxes and losing their jobs.
The figures are alarming: by the end of 2009, the number of unemployed is expected to reach 25 million for the whole of Europe (500 000 in Romania).
We need to promote and support European solidarity between old and new Member States, which makes the vote on the amendment relating to this issue a test for the EP.
The same can be said for the European Commission.
The answer will therefore indeed have to be found at European level, but primarily through the political willingness of the Member States to coordinate their responses to the current economic situation.
These countries are facing increased financing difficulties, which is why I clearly support the possibility of having, in the eurozone, a single central issuer of European public debt.
The financial assistance given to banks and businesses must also be well-directed, temporary, transparent, guaranteed in cost-benefit terms and strictly controlled.
The solidity and solidarity of the European project may be at stake and we must therefore act in a coordinated manner and respect the rules of the internal market, without allowing any protectionism.
I support the report on the European Economic Recovery Plan presented by my fellow Member, Elisa Ferreira, as I agree with the general lines of its approach.
in writing. - This report accompanies the recovery plan of the European Commission, which attempts to reinvigorate the EU economy.
The EPLP can support the main thrust of the rapporteur's ideas and believes that many of the issues outlined are critical for a real recovery.
The Commission response during the economic crisis has been muted and Parliament believes that more effective tools are required to produce recovery.
In fact, an environmental approach could lead to greater innovation and spark renewed productivity whilst also having a positive effect on our environment.
Similarly, a new approach to financial supervision denoted by the de Larosière wise men's report is also vital to ensuring against systemic risks.
in writing. - The financial crisis is the first test of globalisation.
This is not a time for narrow nationalism, but a time where a strong Europe has never been so important.
I voted in favour of the Ferreira report, which calls on the European Commission to come up with strong, clear guidelines aimed at better coordination among all Member States in terms of management of this powerful economic crisis with a view to protecting as many jobs as possible.
Through this report, the European Union is inviting the European Spring Council to give a strong political impetus and draw up a roadmap for all the legal initiatives in order to guarantee, along with Parliament, that they will be adopted in good time.
The report highlights the extremely adverse economic and social consequences of the crisis in many of the new Member States, which poses a considerable risk of destabilisation and increasing poverty.
For this reason, it is not reasonable to force Member States into making a budgetary effort, irrespective of their level of blame, which is an important factor in establishing to what extent deficit spending can be justified.
Do not count on us to praise the hollow European Economic Recovery Plan, which, for the most part, will be self-financed by each of the Member States ('European solidarity' at its best ...) and which does not call into question the neoliberal policies that are at the root of the worsening working and living conditions of the overwhelming majority of the population.
As a result, not surprisingly, the majority of Parliament rejected our proposals, which: condemned the fact that, at a time when the socio-economic crisis in the EU is worsening, the Community budget for 2009 is 'the lowest ever'; insisted on increasing the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund; underlined that 'additional advanced payments' under these Funds would result in a reduction in Community financing over the next few years; criticised the under-implementation of these Funds, particularly in the context of worsening socio-economic conditions in the EU; demanded that these Funds be regarded as a spending target and proposed increasing the rate of Community cofinancing and abolishing the N+2 and N+3 rules with regard to these Funds; insisted on these Funds being effectively used to promote real convergence, thus abandoning their constant subordination to the neoliberal objectives of the 'Lisbon Strategy'; insisted on fighting company relocations.
in writing. - I support this report which recommends faster, more flexible payments for structural funding.
It is, in fact, crucial to understand that the EU's cohesion policy makes an important contribution to the European Economic Recovery Plan and is the Community's largest source of investment in the real economy, providing targeted assistance for addressing priority needs and areas with growth potential, both in the public and in the private sector.
However, this ought to make us think about the mistakes made in the past that have led to this serious economic situation.
