Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 15 November 2001.
On 23 November, Ana Isabel Arostegui and Javier Mijangos, both officers of the Ertzaintza, the Basque regional police, were killed in a cowardly attack whilst carrying out their duties in Beasaín, in the Basque region of Spain.
Two days prior to that incident, terrorists set off a bomb in Bilbao, injuring two other officers of the same police force.
On my own behalf and on behalf of the European Parliament as a whole, I immediately sent a message expressing my most sincere condolences to the families of the victims of these despicable attacks, as well as our wishes for a speedy recovery to those injured.
Having made an assault on justice, by killing Judge José María Lidon Corbi, they have, this time, attacked the Basque regional police force.
Maria Grazia Cutulli, Julio Fuentes, Harry Burton and Azizullah Haidari were killed in an ambush between Jalalabad and Kabul.
Ulf Stroemberg was found dead following a burglary in Taloqan.
I feel that it is right for us, as European citizens and the European Parliament, to pay tribute to these brave men who have laid down their lives in an attempt to save the lives of others.
Mr Tajani, I have already sent a message of condolences to the Italian government.
Despite Portuguese workers having the lowest wages in the European Union, there have recently been countless cases of companies not paying salaries on time, already involving more than PTE 20 billion and many thousands of workers.
I would, in particular, highlight the situation at the Mandata e Mortensen glassworks in Marinha Grande, at the Sotima timber plant in Proença-a-Nova, at Cuftexteis, in Ansião, and the threats being levelled at hundreds of workers at the Eres textiles company in Fundão, because of their local and regional importance and because of the consequences for the development of the areas that are affected.
Madam President, speaking as a Basque and, therefore, as a Spaniard, I would like to thank you for the sensitivity you always show with regard to the problem of terrorism in the Basque country.
Under Rule 19(4), may I ask you to personally intervene with the Greek authorities on behalf of my constituents Paul and Lesley Coppin of Mildenhall, and Anna Skinner of Epping, in relation to her brother Anthony Adamiak, and on behalf of the other Europeans who are currently in jail in Greece for plane spotting.
I ask for your intervention on behalf of the European Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Souladakis.
With regard to the future of the European Union, the European Council will adopt the text of a declaration that will launch the debate on the future of Europe.
The General Affairs Council of 19 November has already confirmed that the Member States agree on the procedures.
The principle of calling a preparatory Convention is an important step towards building a Union that is stronger, more readily understood by the people, and more focused on meeting its essential objectives.
Representatives from governments, the Commission, the national parliaments and the European Parliament will take part in the Convention.
We have reached unanimous agreement on consulting civil society through representative organisations at European and national level.
The Convention will begin its work as soon as possible under the Spanish Presidency and will complete its proceedings by the European Council in June 2003.
To sum up what I have said on this important matter, I would like to make the following comments.
Whatever the content of the Laeken Declaration, the Convention will remain in charge of its own agenda.
The Presidency has attempted to set out and clarify the themes dealt with at Nice, where the declaration was willingly drafted in a relatively open manner.
Nothing that the Presidency proposes should be interpreted as a mandate for the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
The mandate of this conference will be decided in accordance with the procedures laid down under the Treaties.
I shall now turn to the European security and defence policy.
Work is well underway on improving military capabilities and strengthening civil capabilities, as shown at the capabilities conferences held on 19 and 20 November 2001.
These are my comments on the European security and defence policy. (NL) I should now like to turn to another topic, namely enlargement.
The Commission' s report was debated extensively at the General Affairs Council of 19 November.
The timeframe that was established in Nice and clarified in Gothenburg will be fully complied with.
In 2002, the Commission will make proposals to the Council concerning agriculture, cohesion policy and the budget of the Union.
The Commission will sketch a roadmap for the countries that are not involved in the first enlargement round.
Additionally, it will carry out a plan to strengthen the institutions of the candidate countries and will set aside EUR 250 million for that purpose.
The Presidency will be presenting a summary report at the European Council of Laeken, outlining the Union' s measures to combat terrorism.
Its response was comprehensive, and that is the added value which European action brings: the Union has asserted itself as an effective and credible, in fact, vital partner, on which the United States and third countries can rely in the fight against terrorism.
The Union has established its diplomatic and humanitarian role.
The Laeken European Council must reiterate the importance of establishing the common area of freedom, security and justice.
The Union' s response to the challenge posed by the tragic events of 11 September has shown the political will of Member States to make progress in this area.
The Laeken Summit should be the opportunity to reinvigorate the asylum and immigration policy by implementing Tampere, to supplement and strengthen the coordination of instruments for police and judicial cooperation, by finally establishing Eurojust, to reiterate the principle of mutual recognition, thus demonstrating the trust that each Member State places in its partners' legal system.
On a practical level, the Presidency hopes to reach an agreement in Laeken on the following issues: a framework decision on the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States; a framework decision on the fight against terrorism; a framework decision on the execution of orders freezing assets or evidence in the European Union and an agreement on the common list of terrorist organisations.
To move on to the next point, which is the economic situation and prospects for the European Union.
This issue will be discussed on the first day of the European Council.
The message from Laeken must be to increase the Union' s credibility by emphasising the progress we have made, particularly in the area of international trade after the Doha meeting, in stressing the benefits of the single market and in respecting the economic Stability Pact.
The summit will stress the need to reiterate our determination to pursue the process launched at Lisbon and at Gothenburg.
In these guidelines, the European Council will include a new horizontal objective on the quality of employment and will also adopt a first list of agreed indicators for the quality of employment.
To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I have outlined for you the work programme of the Laeken European Council.
This Council will be where the European Union takes decisions on some fundamental issues that will map out its long term future, such as the physical introduction of the euro, the confirmation that enlargement is irreversible and the operational aspects of the European security and defence policy.
The Communication on the future of the Union, which we will be presenting prior to the Laeken European Council, takes as its starting point precisely these considerations, which I see are also addressed in both the reports under debate today.
First of all, let us examine the report on the future of the Union.
In particular, there is a strong demand for the role of democratically elected representatives not to be confined to ratification of the basic texts of our Union.
The setting up of a Convention, its composition and structure and the further development of the agenda for the constitutional reform of the Union are the focal points of the Laeken Declaration.
As you know, there is considerable support for the idea that the Chair of the Convention should be appointed by the Laeken European Council.
We fully support the proposal that the Chair of the Convention should participate in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference as well.
The motion for a resolution calls upon the Convention to adopt unanimously a single, coherent proposal that can serve as the sole basis for the negotiations and decisions of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Now I would, therefore, like to focus briefly on the Kaufmann report on the reform of governance.
Both our institutions consider that we must conduct a critical review of governance at European level, and reform it where necessary.
The European Parliament supports the creation of an interinstitutional working group as I proposed in my speech of 2 October.
The Commission is ready to embark on this dialogue and we hope that the Council will also take part, at least where matters which are the competence of all three institutions are concerned.
What ultimately counts is the fact that the Commission and Parliament agree that democratic legitimacy must remain the central political point of reference in the issue of governance, and that efficiency, although also extremely important, must remain a secondary consideration.
The Kaufmann report also highlights a number of things that are of concern to Parliament.
First of all, I want to stress that the proposals put forward by the Commission in the White Paper are intended to strengthen the democratic process and therefore to strengthen the role of the European Parliament.
I am still of the opinion that the European Parliament is the central element of this democratic legitimisation, without which there can be no real support for our policies from the citizens of Europe.
Secondly - and this is the opinion of the Commission - the European Parliament is the supreme democratic expression of European civil society and the natural representative of its demands.
I have read what the Kaufmann report has to say on this matter very carefully and assure you that we will pay the greatest attention to the recommendations it makes, including those dealing with methodology.
Furthermore, our proposals recommend that any use of co-regulation should be decided on a case-by-case basis, after the European Parliament has delivered its opinion.
I have already said that the conditions and restrictions governing the use of these new legislative instruments should be the subject of a debate, and, if possible, of an agreement, between the institutions, preferably within the interinstitutional working group I proposed on 2 October.
I would, moreover, reiterate that it would be inappropriate to decide on a practical action plan on the way the Community legislates - what is commonly termed better regulation - before all the institutions have debated it.
It is also true that the Commission cannot continue to take full political responsibility for the actions of agencies over which it has only a partial influence.
For this reason, we propose to define a general model for agencies which ensures the balanced representation of Parliament, Council and Commission.
Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, we presented and discussed with you our report on the progress made on enlargement, progress that allows us to pursue the objective, which I now feel is realistic, of admitting up to ten new Member States before the 2004 elections.
Today, the only thing I want to stress is the importance of continuing to increase the candidate countries' involvement in the Union' s activities.
This is why the involvement of representatives of the candidate countries in the work of the Convention is of paramount importance.
For the same reasons, we are increasingly involving the applicant countries in the activities and programmes of the Union.
The Union has played a very active part in the diplomatic efforts relating to the current international crisis.
Now we must continue along this path and continue to show firm political will and great determination.
In particular, we must maintain and develop our commitment to the full and effective execution of the Tampere mandate, on which we will present a report to the European Council.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the summit at Laeken can be an historic one.
Our group has every faith in the Belgian Presidency, because Belgium has always been faithful to the ideal of European unification and, above all, because Belgium has always stood for the European Community approach.
Both you and the President of the Commission have spoken about the enlargement, and the memory is still fresh in my mind of a conference with the leaders of our related parties from the acceding countries, that is to say, from the countries desirous of joining the European Union.
We will always defend Israel's security, as we have always done in the past, but the people in Palestine are as much entitled to human dignity and a life lived in security, as are the Israelis, who rightly lay claim to that for themselves. (Applause) Let me make another comment on the Convention.
Our group will, in any case, be sending its best and most experienced people to the Convention, so that we can achieve a real result.
We also echo President Prodi's demand and beg you to make your influence felt in order to make it possible for the Convention to start as early as possible in 2002 - in February or early March under the Spanish Presidency - and then be concluded under the Italian Presidency at the end of 2003, giving us, by then, a new Treaty ready for signature, on which we can then have very comprehensive and repeated discussions here in Parliament.
With regard to the agenda that Mr Michel has presented, Madam President, I would firstly like to state my group' s support for the Leinen, Méndez de Vigo and Kaufmann reports, that deal with the fundamental issue of the future of the European Union.
Mr Michel, in this instance, Parliament would be grateful if you could act in the same way you did with the Convention for the Charter of Fundamental Rights with regard to appointing a President.
Propose a President at Laeken and let the Convention elect the President.
Secondly, I also think that it is significant that you speak about the dual democratic legitimacy of the Union, because it currently seems as if civil society has nothing to do with MEPs or with members of the Member State parliaments.
In this regard, Mr Michel stated that the membership of the Bureau or Presidium of the Convention remains open.
If the President and the troika have a presence in the Bureau, the European Parliament' s proposal will make sense - two MEPs and two representatives from Member States - for this will provide a balance between the two branches of democratic legitimacy.
Finally, Madam President, we have very important political responsibilities where Afghanistan is concerned.
The first hostages of terrorism have been the Afghans and above all the Afghan women.
It is indispensable and each part of it has a core, indispensable role and responsibility and benefits by the very fact of the three parts working well together.
When we reduce the European Security and Defence Policy to the somewhat farcical theatre of presence or absence at the dining policy at Downing Street, we diminish the idea of Europe itself and we need, from the top down, at the level of the European Council, a commitment to an internally consistent and coherent sense of Europe.
The one plea I would make, and we have already asked Parliament's Constitutional Affairs Committee to deal with this question with some urgency, is that before us now is the responsibility, among other things, to begin to implement one major part of the structural economic reform programme of Lisbon, namely to create a single European market for financial services.
I hope all candidate countries will participate in the Convention, under the principles of Helsinki, namely equal treatment.
I agree with all those who said that this business of reform must be finished before the next European election because then there will be a new Parliament, a new Europe after enlargement and a new Commission.
Madam President, in the short time available to me, I do not wish to repeat what has been said by our excellent rapporteurs, nor do I wish to concern myself with the strategy of the Council and the Member States, who have, for months, been setting this Convention up to be as feeble and unsuccessful as possible.
In this historic context, with one of the most important summits, preparing for an historic Intergovernmental Conference, in the offing, I wish to address the Commission.
Mr President of the Commission, I would very much like to remind you that all the great projects of European integration began with the Commission's visions and outlines and that the Commission was the spiritus rector and visionary behind almost every great step forward.
Let me remind you of the Single European Act, of the first Delors package, of Maastricht with its second Delors package and the Report on Economic and Monetary Union, of the White Paper on the completion of the internal market, of the White Paper on growth, competition and employment with its visions of the social dialogue and of a social chapter in the Treaty, of the White Papers on environmental policy and on the role of Parliament and of all the great concepts produced by the Commission, which went ahead of the Intergovernmental Conferences to prepare their way.
I believe this new approach, with the calling of a Convention, to be crucial to the European Union's future viability, for the primary issue here is the reinforcement of democracy in Europe.
Mr President-in-Office, today you have put before us the salient points of the Laeken Declaration, which is to be ambitious in its scope.
A report by the Commission tells us that 60 million people in the European Union are affected by poverty, at present, and I find myself thinking that this appalling figure alone tells us what a great need there is for political action, and that this Convention must be about a change of direction and a new kind of politics in Europe.
Mr President, the scope of European Union foreign policy needs to be extended in the light of the recent international developments, but the Member States' governments have to realise that we cannot have a common foreign policy without joint intelligence.
The geopolitical situation, poverty - an increasingly serious problem - and the growth of terrorism - there are now cells in all the countries of the globe - must prompt us to start work at Laeken on a project to introduce genuine joint intelligence, new intelligence which is not created or developed along the same lines as Europol but which is capable of being used transparently with political, economic and cultural analysts who will be able to focus our foreign policy on that cooperation and timely intervention without which the European Union, with or without institutional reforms, will not be able to get off the ground.
With a view to achieving peace in Afghanistan and the subsequent reconstruction of the country, the Union' s role both as mediator and a proactive force must be defined now so that Afghanistan' s future is characterised not just by economic recovery and the establishment of a democratic political system, but also by the reestablishment of a role for women in politics and social life.
In conclusion, the success or failure of the Convention depends on the will, the genuine European convictions motivating us, our will as individual parties and governments not just to produce documents on reforms but to focus on practical action that, as well as improving the situation of our own countries, can improve the situations of countries that look to us for help too.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Prodi, the EU' s Heads of State and Government have decided to hold a Convention on 14 and 15 December with a view to designing a constitution for a federation of national states.
So a substantial majority shares the position we have taken and I am pleased to learn today that the Belgian Presidency agrees with many parts of it and that even the Commission can go along with many of the points Parliament has made.
I thank all those who have contributed to a new method really becoming possible - a convention in which the representatives of the parliaments will enjoy equal rights with the representatives of the governments in giving shape to this project for the future of this European Union of ours.
No, I believe that the Convention represents the great opportunity to use the consensus method to arrive at the overwhelming majority.
I am in favour of us all resting from our labours in July and August, so that the IGC can begin in September under the Italian Presidency and we can complete the constitutional treaty by the end of 2003, in good time for the European elections and also for enlargement.
I think that the terrorist attacks against Washington and New York on 11 September have awoken the consciousness of European citizens, who are now asking for more Europe and better Europe.
But let me tell you that I think you are doing a very good job, and I would like to say that this Belgian Presidency has maintained an excellent attitude towards the European Parliament, one that has been based upon collaboration, participation, listening and, in short, the desire to work together.
In the Resolution of 17 November 1997, which I had the honour to present together with Dimitri Tsatsos, with regard to the Treaty of Amsterdam, we were already saying that the intergovernmental method for the revision of the Treaties had run its course and that we would have to look for another method.
This method is the Convention.
We did this because the Convention brings Europe closer to its citizens, because it is more open, more public, more transparent, more participatory; it allows, as the Convention that drafted the Charter proves, that our citizens want to be involved in the construction of Europe.
What we want is to help the decision making process, bringing Europe closer to its citizens, its people and bringing together the various legitimacies of the European Union.
In that particular Convention, there were 16 MEPs and 62 members of the Convention.
In the proposal that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have sent to the capitals there are still 16 MEPs, but there are 120 members of the Convention.
To conclude, Mr President, I think that we have to get rid of this fear of the Convention.
I also hope that, at the end of this process, the indication will be a Constitution for the European Union.
It takes up a very definite stance on numerous subjects addressed by the Commission in its White Paper, and, to use a phrase currently popular in Germany, a good thing too!
This merits every respect, being, in fact, about nothing more or less than the reduction of the prevailing gulf between the EU and its citizens.
I would put under this heading the committees and working parties listed in Commissioner Kinnock's White Paper on reform of the Commission, and which are participating in the consultation procedure.
President Prodi announced today that the Commission will be producing a consultative document aimed at starting a dialogue with this House on this issue, and I can tell you that this Parliament is ready for it.
We in this Parliament want to be fully involved in this development.
We want a strategy for more and better jobs.
In comparison with our economic counterparts, for example, the United States, Europe suffers from a low employment rate.
The Lisbon European Council recognised that this was a problem and proposed an ambitious objective for progressively increasing this rate.
It is our ever more frequent experience that European social affairs policy is carried on by dialogue between sub-committees of the Council - for example the Employment Committee or the Social Protection Committee - and the Commission.
Parliament must be able to play its rightful part in formulating proposals on subjects such as employment and social protection which, after all, are of immediate concern to all citizens.
President Prodi just used a very fine expression in describing Parliament as the most important expression of democratic Europe.
The two documents deal with the legislative powers of Parliament.
Mr Prodi has made a commitment not to put forward any proposal to the Laeken European Council, and it seems right, in fact, that these issues will not be discussed at Laeken, because, in short, these are issues that affect the very essence of the process of drafting a new European Constitution and which should, therefore, be in the Convention itself, and, possibly, at the Intergovernmental Conference.
I have been as generous as I can, Mr De Clercq, but one has to recognise the time that is allocated to your Committee.
The Environment Committee is very unhappy with the idea of voluntary agreements, as a way of proceeding.
The Committee on Petitions has been forced to issue an extremely critical opinion on the Commission' s proposals on good governance, for it has found no reference in them either to the European Ombudsman or to the Committee on Petitions' role as the institutional body which safeguards the rights of the citizens, who indeed petition it to uphold their rights.
The proposals for good governance do not appear to contain any significant element that might succeed in bringing the citizens closer to Europe.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, there are only two observations I wish to make, and they overlap with each other.
I believe that the European Union's practical policy after 11 September has made it clear, through the behaviour of a number of Member States which indulged in bilateralism or appeared enraptured by their own managerial airs and graces, that the European Union is strong wherever it works in accordance with the Community method, and weak wherever it does not.
That is the lesson to be learned from the past two or three months; it shows us how necessary general reform of the European Union is if this approach, which weakens us, is not to recur in future.
The Convention marks the start of a new European Constitution, a bold vision of Europe' s future, a euro which is not suffering from monetary isolation but which is being embedded in socio-economic policy, a European Commission which is transformed into a European government, European elections with European lists of candidates and with people heading the lists of candidates who, via the European Parliament, can produce a president for the European Commission.
We look forward to close cooperation between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
The Convention must enter into an open dialogue with civil society, for part of Europe' s future lies in more European cooperation in those fields where citizens expect to see cross-border results, including food safety, immigration, environmental pollution, international crime and terrorism.
Mr President, in February 1787, a previous convention met in Philadelphia.
The convention's formal brief was extremely restrictive and it was not itself to decide but only propose.
Such a similar result will only come out of this European Convention, if we as a Parliament are bold, well-organised and persuasive.
That, of course, will involve, as has been said in parts of this debate, fully recognising the prerogatives and powers of this great all-European Parliamentary Assembly.
But democracy at this level will not be effective unless it is also fully effective at the level of the little battalions: at the level of the local authorities, at the level of the constitutional regions, the self-governing internal nations of the Member States.
Now that means that the Convention must look to that question as well, and improving governance in Europe must, as the Commission has said, look closely at the proper involvement of regional and local authorities.
I thought that the Commission was somewhat timid in what they said about that, but alas, Parliament argues yet further timidity and talks down all the references in the White Paper to regional involvement with the Commission.
The achievement of peace alone justifies our existence but we have achieved much more, not least the fact that the ideals enshrined in the Treaty of Rome - of assisting economic and social development of small and under-developed countries - have by and large also been achieved.
Ireland bears witness to this fact and, despite the outcome of the Nice Treaty, Irish people readily acknowledge the benefits of our membership and also support proposals on enlargement.
Furthermore, no layman, nor many MEPs, really understand how the whole thing works.
The White Paper and this report are all part of a hard sell, the idea being to sell the EU concept to our citizens more aggressively so that the people will learn to love it.
I welcomed the comments made by Mr Poettering, Mr Cox and Mr Voggenhuber, who, for the first time in a long while, focused on the issue of the Commission in their speeches.
We are increasing our powers of co-decision, but, at the same time, we are in the process of destroying the Commission.
Mr President, President Prodi, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs showed, by our unanimous adoption of the Kaufmann report, our ability, in the very short time available to us, to act in concert and respond to important reform proposals from the Commission, on which we will be able to take up a position either today or tomorrow, just in time for the European Summit at Laeken.
The transposition of European legislation requires at every level its own culture of public administration, which must also embrace the application of European rules through the authorities in the Member States.
As the draft document is still a well kept secret for this Parliament too, we are having to make our contribution to the declaration without, in fact, any knowledge of the content of this document.
The EU must become more intelligible and citizen-friendly.
I hope the rest of the European Council is as courageous as the Belgian Presidency.
This is your responsibility now as European Council, and this is the decision you must make: to reduce your powers.
The President-in-Office, Mr Michel, and President Prodi have been through some really tough times in recent months, times when the lack of joint instruments was starkly and sometimes cruelly clear.
Mr President, with regard to the European strategy to promote quality in employment and in social policy, announcing and adopting plans is not enough: quality employment with rights must be created and tangible objectives must be set to ensure that all social rights are respected.
A policy seeking to achieve quality in social terms calls for priority to be given to employment with rights, with particular emphasis on women and young people, including their training, but also on pay and contracts, and special attention must also be given to the elderly and to pensions, especially minimum pensions, which means that the European Union cannot continue to insist on giving absolute priority to the monetary policies of the Stability Pact, as it is still doing.
Mr President, in our view, the draft declaration that the Laeken Council is due to publish to shape the debate on the future of the Union seems to have been drafted under some very odd circumstances.
The ideal scenario would be to initially establish an interparliamentary forum consisting of representatives of the national parliaments or which works on the basis of proposals from the national parliaments, as the latter are well placed to sum up the feelings of each nation.
In any case, I would say to the Heads of State and Government, do not allow a mechanism to be imposed upon you that would lead to proposals being made that are out of touch with the interests and preferences of our people.
This is a point that I will explain in greater depth in my explanation of vote on the resolution that will be tabled.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just mention five points in the short time available to me.
I wish to reiterate my warning against setting an earlier date for the Intergovernmental Conference planned for Nice in 2004, because I am firmly convinced that the people would see it as an evasion of their vote.
One is indeed struck by the optimism which is taking possession of those involved: the naming of the date 2004 suggests that the work is nearly finished.
The events of 11 September have illustrated this more clearly than ever.
The fight against serious crime and terrorism is a common cause, and reticence in this connection will jeopardise the safety of citizens.
It is actually very strange that our union of constitutional states, as such, has not resulted in greater trust among the Member States and their legal systems.
May I offer my congratulations to the co-rapporteurs for an excellent report and also to the Belgian Presidency for having carried the idea, born in Parliament, of preparing the next Intergovernmental Conference by means of a Convention nearly to fruition, although we still have the Laeken Summit to come.
In some countries the word "constitution" is an almost sacred text that has emerged after revolution or after national independence.
Let us improve our constitution by firstly codifying it to make it simple and clear in a single text so that citizens can see how this constitution operates, and secondly by clarifying it in several ways: clarifying the responsibilities, what the Union is and is not responsible for and clarifying the structures.
Finally, as regards clarity and democratic accountability: it is essential that all legislation passes the two tests of acceptability to the Council representing the States and acceptability to Parliament representing the citizens, a double guarantee as to the quality and acceptability of European legislation.
Mr President, in the opinion of the Liberal Group the Convention must suggest alternative prototypes for the development of the EU.
In this case, alongside the supranational Parliament there would be a second chamber formed in order to strengthen the position of the Member States, which would be composed of members of the national parliaments.
However, not one idea, vision or proposal can be implemented or can bring in results unless the right method is used to put flesh on the bones of these visions and proposals.
We want this 'call back position' only in the event of a delegated decision-making structure being incapable or coming to the wrong decisions - wrong, that is, in the sense of being contrary to what the legislature intended.
Mr President, the issue of European governance is such a complex problem, and one that our fellow citizens have difficulty in understanding, which is, in itself, a paradox.
We must do so and bear in mind three objectives, namely to clarify the decision-making process, to improve the efficiency and transparency of this process, and to encourage the involvement of citizens.
Furthermore, I think it is worthwhile, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed, to draw up an inter-institutional agreement on co-legislation, to guarantee that the European Parliament plays an effective role and fulfils its political responsibility.
The reform of governance is therefore a step in the right direction.
Lastly, as everyone in this House knows, we cannot have democratic power without democratic legitimacy.
The Convention must concentrate on instigating a new phase which will produce a Constitution leading to the creation of a federation of nation States, but it must also establish the competences of the various institutions: the Commission, the Council, the Member States, the regions and the major cities.
The Laeken Council will also have to discuss the timetable for this progression towards the new institutions.
The Council is in danger of infringing Articles 8 and 10 of the European Council Convention, together with Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, freedom of expression, respect for private life and the protection of personal data.
The intergovernmental model is out of date.
On 11 September, the EU' s structure in terms of pillars ceased to be at all effective.
With regard to the agenda for the IGC of 2003-2004, the Council has naturally included the four points of Declaration 23 appended to the Treaty of Nice.
The common foreign and security policy must be included in the Community Pillar.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in my opinion, the most important aspect of the Laeken Summit is the following: that the Council is able to reverse the trend seen in Nice, that is to say, that we move away from this feeling of failure at the summit that marked the end of the French Presidency a year or so ago, towards a feeling of success at the Laeken summit at political level and for Europe' s citizens.
I think that this is what the excellent Leinen and Méndez de Vigo report is calling for.
The Convention needs an agenda, but it also needs a mandate, a membership, a working method and a timetable to make it worthwhile.
Secondly, the Convention should work not on the basis of unanimity, but on the basis of majority consensus.
I may thus be able to reassure those of you who already see a thousand and one reasons in the Convention for sacrificing some things that they have always believed in, and which are, in fact, crippling Europe.
It can also be a challenge upon the political responsibility of the IGC members, who will have to take up this challenge, because the Convention will, at any rate, make all Council members face their political responsibility.
In this case, all IGC members, when shouldering their responsibilities, when adopting one option or another, or when selecting from the options which are presented by the Convention, will, at the same time, risk being at odds, not only with the Convention, but with civil society which must, at some point, make known its intentions, its expectations and its aspirations for this Convention.
Several countries demanded an increase in the number of members from the national parliaments, perhaps so that the ruling coalition could have better representation, perhaps to take into account sub-national entities or perhaps because of the bi-cameral system.
This must be done in an objective manner and I am sure that we are all capable of doing this.
Therefore, as far as I am concerned, I am willing to see whether an increase in the European Parliament' s representation will cause too many difficulties, such as, for example, too many Members taking part in the Convention, and whether we will encounter similar requests.
I think that our work is moving in the direction proposed by Parliament.
The possibility for the Convention to present various options must enable us to hold a debate with conflicting views.
I am not against this at all, but we must keep a sense of balance.
The Convention can take up any issue, including European security and defence policy.
As we know, these are the four themes from Nice relating to the Convention.
Instead, we are in favour of a more optimistic view, where the four themes from Nice are more widely interpreted.
I hope that I can count on the European Parliament, at least the more optimistic of its Members, to help us to convince others of this point of view and of this direction.
The question of timing is also important.
Of course, I am in favour of transparency in the Council' s work.
Unfortunately, I have many more reservations about carrying out a public relations exercise that would weaken the quality of debate within the Council.
Mrs Maij-Weggen, I am a seasoned parliamentarian, having spent more than 20 years in Parliament.
I was also head of opposition in my country for a long time, too long for my liking.
Even in Parliament, if we really want to take the general interests of our citizens into account on specific subjects and specific dossiers, it is sometimes better to hold the debate behind closed doors, and not only when naming names or individuals.
There were two suggestions as to how to involve civil society in the work of this Convention.
The first suggestion was to create a second forum, a second institution and a second assembly.
The major difficulty in doing this is to determine how to select the members of this second assembly, which would bear the huge responsibility of representing European civil society as a whole.
The second suggestion that we considered was to work with what I will call a structured network whose origins are found in civil society.
I think that the most representative forces of our society will emerge in time.
Thank you, Mr Michel.
It is gratifying to hear that you are convinced of the good will of this Parliament, but you will understand that we, and hence the European citizens, also stand to win or lose the most from the success of this Convention.
Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission I too would like to thank you for the weight and quality of the speeches you have made throughout this debate on the two major subjects on the agenda: governance and Laeken.
You put it very well, Mrs Kaufmann: the debate on governance is part of the great debate on the future of the Union.
It is not only our reason for being, our raison d' être, that is in question, and I will come back to that in a moment, it is also our way of being, our way of acting.
The Commission, particularly in the White Paper on governance, is going to promote the co-legislation function of the European Parliament.
Through this White Paper, we are offering Parliament the opportunity to be in a better situation to exert its prerogatives, including better checking of the quality of the choice of legislative instruments, better monitoring of the quality of the use of expertise - is it pluralist? - and the quality of the use of consultation - is it fair?
We proposed looking, together with Parliament and the Council, at other mechanisms that will allow, the European Parliament to exert its responsibility for monitoring in a proportional, that is to say, a balanced manner in the matters currently covered by codecision.
I would also like to say a few words about the Laeken Summit, on which we, like President Prodi, have worked very hard.
With regard to political will, which has been a common feature of many of your speeches, President Prodi announced four strategic objectives in this House.
I am well aware of this, and I say so under the supervision of my colleague and friend, Mr Vitorino, who worked a great deal with you on the previous Convention on fundamental rights: here we are dealing with subjects that are more politically open and probably more problematic.
Before concluding, as I promised to be brief on the issue of the Laeken Convention and especially on the situation post-Laeken, on behalf of the Commission I would like to thank the Belgian Presidency, Mr Verhofstadt and Mr Michel, in particular, for the political will and courage that they have shown and which they are going to have to show in the few remaining days before Laeken in order to convince the Member States that the draft declaration on which they have worked and which they are proposing to the Member States will be well respected and not diminished.
I, too, heard Mr Michel using familiar words just now.
Among the citizens, in each of our countries, in each of our regions, and I am very aware of the forum that the regional framework provides for public debate, for debate among the people, where many useful things can be said and passed on.
Next week, we are going to decide on a communication, on which I am working with President Prodi, on Laeken, on the situation before Laeken and on the likely scenario after the Laeken decisions have been implemented.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Procedural motions (continued) On 15 November, I brought to your attention the plight of the plane spotters arrested in Greece, amongst them my constituents Lesley and Paul Coppin.
Neither they nor their lawyer were present when evidence was originally presented to the investigating judge who took his arbitrary decisions in camera.
Provisions under Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights, along with case-law, make clear that persons arrested within the European Union must be brought promptly - and that means within seven days - before a judge who must free them immediately if no foundation for their detention exists.
It must have been clear to the judge, by 16 November at the latest, that there was no evidence against many of the individuals and they should therefore have been released immediately.
Parliament had a chance to show its relevance to people and missed it in prime time.
Mr Souladakis said earlier that the Greek criminal justice authorities had respected all relevant rights.
We might need a Europe-wide review with a view to reinforcing those standards and we certainly need that in parallel with the European arrest warrant.
I would just like to underline that this is an issue that has the support of all parties in my own country.
It concerns not just British citizens but also Dutch citizens.
It has massive public interest and raises questions at a time when we are proceeding in the field of Justice and Home Affairs at European level on the basis of mutual recognition.
It is important and I am glad you have announced that the President will take this up.
Thank you, Mr Corbett.
I would point out that the next item on the agenda is the European arrest warrant.
Madam President, as we are talking about human rights, I would like to speak on an issue of method, which applies to all the association agreements.
Today, a joint debate is going to take place on the association agreements with Egypt, and it will include oral questions and motions for resolutions.
For the sake of a democratic debate and a more coherent vote on all the association agreements, it is important for it to be split into separate parts.
This two-part method allows us to confirm the fundamental importance that we attach to the whole agreement, particularly Article 2 on human rights.
The example of Egypt is telling in that it shows that we do not silently accept a decision that constitutes a violation of human rights, the recent condemnation of homosexuals, and flouts the values that we defend in Article 2 of our agreements.
This point will be dealt with in this evening' s debate.
Two and a half years ago, one of the three prisoners died as a result of their appalling conditions of detention.
Madam President, it is a matter of regret and perhaps even of shame that it took the events of 11 September to push European governments into tackling effectively a problem which has plagued our continent for over a generation.
In 1997 in Amsterdam, and again in 1999 in Tampere in Finland, the Heads of State and Government committed themselves to tackling terrorism.
The events of 11 September have fortunately brought such action and I look forward to travelling to Washington shortly to talk about common action between the European Union and the United States of America.
I would like to thank the political groups in this House for their cooperation in drawing up this report, particularly the Members from Spain.
In my report, I broadly welcome the Commission proposals for a Council framework decision on combating terrorism and for a European arrest warrant.
The amendments which I put forward seek to restrict the list of crimes defined as terrorist crimes and covered by the European arrest warrant to the most serious cross-border criminal offences, and if I may quote Amendment No 16, it specifies those crimes "which aim to destroy the fundamental freedoms, democracy, respect for human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law on which our societies are based".
We seek too to insert safeguards for civil liberties by basing action clearly on international human rights documents, by reinforcing the principle of ne bis in idem, by taking account of time spent in detention awaiting trial and by allowing Member States refusal to extradite when there are manifestly sound reasons for doing so, including in those cases where a person found guilty could face a penalty of death.
I shall ask the House to accept one amendment, which was submitted after the deadline and which takes account of the most recent developments in Council.
There is a method - not one which I recommend - but one which may be needed in extremis, in order to press ahead, and that is to invoke Article 40 of the Treaty allowing reinforced cooperation between a certain number of Member States.
The process of creating an area of freedom, security and justice is similar to that of creating the single market, but it is more urgent and, moreover, we are dealing not with the freedom of movement of goods, services or capital, but with the freedom of people.
We must ensure effective action against terrorists and yet we must not deny legitimate political expression of grievances.
I was surprised to read in El País this morning an interpretation of one amendment, which I support, that it would outlaw Herri Batasuna.
Council is discussing the proposals put forward by the Commission; Parliament, which desperately needs powers of codecision, may be reconsulted on this matter.
We are determined to assist governments in their work and yet maintain the delicate balance between the security needs of our citizens and preservation of their democratic freedoms.
In this, cooperation in Justice and Home Affairs has received quite a boost.
May I say, finally, what a pleasure it is to see you as a fellow Liberal Democrat in the Chair in this session.
When Parliament approved the establishment of Eurojust, as long ago as early 2001, it envisaged 1 January 2002 as its starting date.
The Council has, since 11 September, demonstrated its capacity for rapid reaction when circumstances require it, as the safety of people in Europe most certainly does.
The document under consideration today already incorporates significant amendments by the Council at Parliament's suggestion in the first consultation.
Eurojust's areas of competence were therefore defined in such a way as to include borderline cases and new forms of serious crime.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, first of all, like to start by thanking you for the speed and flexibility with which you have worked over recent weeks.
The Council meeting of 20 September, and then the European Council that met the following day, decided, as you know, on rapid implementation of the Action Plan against terrorism, with a December deadline for each of the three decisions that we are discussing today, which are key elements of this action plan.
European citizens would not understand if the European Union did not work as fast as possible to adopt the measures in question.
Madam President, first of all, I will deal with the decision creating Eurojust, then the framework decision on the European arrest warrant, and I will finish with the framework decision on combating terrorism.
We are doing everything we can to ensure that this instrument is adopted in December so that we can meet the objectives of Tampere.
Admittedly, a political agreement had already been struck during the Council meeting of 27 and 28 September on Articles 1 to 8 of this Decision.
Under the Belgian Presidency, the working party has spent 13 meeting days on this instrument.
It has also been examined by the Article 36 Committee and is now before the COREPER. (FR) An initial opinion from Parliament was adopted on 17 May this year but, given the many changes that had been made to the text, it became necessary to have a fresh consultation.
Bringing together magistrates from the Member States in a single body will surely enable good coordination and close cooperation between the authorities responsible for prosecution.
All these issues are covered by provisions in the draft decision.
This draft agreement is being drawn up by the members of the pro-Eurojust provisional unit and the representatives of Europol.
It was most desirable to include those primarily affected in the discussion and to better integrate the further developments in Europol that are currently under negotiation within the European Union. (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in line with your wishes, Eurojust' s areas of competence have been set up in such a way as to afford Eurojust the scope needed to deal with borderline cases and new forms of crime.
The expertise gathered by the interim unit which was set up on 1 March of this year was taken into consideration.
I should like to underline the fact that the activities carried out by the interim unit have more than adequately attested to the significance and value of a unit such as Eurojust, particularly over the past few weeks.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will finish this part of my statement by drawing your attention to the fact that, on 16 November, the Presidency insisted that the Member States prepare from now on to implement the framework decision creating Eurojust, so that it can be wholly operational as soon as possible.
As you know, the Commission' s proposal is based on the principle of mutual recognition of final decisions.
That means that each national authority must recognise ipso facto, with minimal checks, a request to hand over a person made by the judicial authority of another Member State.
The European arrest warrant is meant to replace the current extradition mechanism for the crimes that it covers. (NL) The framework decision on this arrest warrant is technically a very complex instrument, because it deals with important issues within criminal law procedure, but also with issues which, for example, pertain to the description of people which facilitates the tracing of them.
The dossier was immediately dealt with by the Article 36 Committee, thus allowing the most delicate issues to be discussed there straight away.
At the Article 36 Committee, the debates to date have mainly focused on the scope of the instrument that addresses the problems involved in the dual criminality requirement and on the modalities of judicial inspection within the implementing Member State.
The Council agreed to work on the basis of two proposals.
Under the other proposal, removing dual criminality would be limited to offences committed wholly or partially on the territory of the issuing State, the idea being that a handover could not be refused for acts committed on the territory of the State issuing the warrant. (NL) During the Justice and Internal Affairs Council of 16 November, the ministers managed to reach agreement on the conditions under which an appeal may be made to the rights enjoyed in the implementing State, as well as on the deadline for handing over a suspect.
The other provisions of the Commission proposal were discussed in the Article 36 Committee on 22 and 23 November.
The discussions centred around the reasons for refusing to implement the warrant and the conditions for applying the principle of territoriality and the principle of speciality.
This is the state of the negotiations concerning the framework decision on the European arrest warrant.
As I have said before, there are still difficulties, but we are hopeful that they can be resolved before next week. (NL) The third instrument, I should like to mention today, is the framework decision on the fight against terrorism.
But the significance of the framework decision also lies in the subtleties thereof, as some of you have rightly pointed out: all actions in connection with terrorism, including taking part in and supporting a terrorist group, must be considered.
They are making steady progress and that is borne out by the outcome of the meetings of 16 November.
Two additional elements have been adopted by the Council in order to confirm the guarantees of respect for fundamental rights.
Also, a political declaration will add to these precautions, specifying that the decision does not cover people who are acting to preserve or restore democratic values, or people who are exercising the right to express their opinions, even if, while exercising that right, they commit offences.
Finally, the preamble will exclude from the framework decision' s scope, the activities of the armed forces in a period of armed conflict when they are performing their official duties, as governed by international law.
The current text provides for the obligation on all Member States to increase penalties for punishable acts of terrorism compared to the same acts without any terrorist intent.
The debates which were held on this topic last Friday in the COREPER were about the very same punishment for punishable acts which are associated with terrorist groups.
As I have already said, the Presidency expects to see the discussions on these three instruments completed between now and December.
I shall, therefore, limit myself to emphasising two or three aspects in greater detail.
The draft document adopts a balanced approach that respects both the legitimate interests and fundamental rights of Europe' s citizens and the need for the effective coordination of investigations and prosecutions.
Secondly, the role of the Union' s institutions has been strengthened and the Commission is fully involved in the work of Eurojust in its various areas of responsibility.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the other two initiatives under consideration, the events of 11 September 2001 have, I am sad to say, confirmed the validity of the recommendations adopted by the European Parliament on 5 September 2001, following an own-initiative report drawn up by Graham Watson.
The recommendations in the Watson report, published in September, were, to a large extent, taken into account in the proposals presented by the Commission on 19 September which are now being studied by the Council.
I wish firstly to discuss the proposal for a framework decision on combating terrorism.
With regard to jurisdiction, the debate in the Council is close to reaching a solution that is very similar to the one recommended in the amendments tabled by the European Parliament.
There is consensus in Council on a balanced formula that combines the Commission' s initial proposal and the more ambitious project suggested by some Member States and by Parliament on national jurisdictions being extended to cover the entire territory of the Union.
With regard to the third issue, that of penalties and sanctions, I would say that this is still the main problem with the framework decision, given the lack of consensus on a common level of penalties and sanctions for individual terrorist offences.
If we limit our ambitions in this way, we will not be fulfilling the mandate laid down in the Article 31(e) of the Treaty, nor will we be following the recommendation contained in the Watson report.
I hope that it is possible to find a solution on the basis of the proposal that the Commission presented on creating a range of penalties and sanctions for the individual offences listed in Articles 1 and 2 of the Commission proposal, with greater flexibility to adapt them to the scale of penalties in force in the national legislation of each Member State.
Lastly, this framework decision stipulates that the Member States must adopt all possible measures to guarantee appropriate assistance to the families of victims, implementing, where possible, Article 4 of the Framework Decision on the Status of Victims in Connection with Criminal Proceedings.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the second framework decision, on the European arrest warrant, must be based on the principle of the mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters, in line with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council of October 1999, and with the recommendation made to us by the Heads of State and Government at the Ghent European Council of October this year.
As you know, the Commission proposal that is being discussed today seeks to make the abolition of the double jeopardy rule universal, with the exception of a negative list identified by the Commission.
Since the Ghent European Council, it has become clear that this approach by the Commission would not have majority support in Council.
The Commission is prepared to support this compromise proposal by the Presidency provided that the definition of offences included on this positive list is substantial and that it sends a clear, unequivocal message that we are strengthening the mechanisms of judicial cooperation to fight against the various forms of transnational organised crime.
However, at the moment, this agreement is not yet completely signed and sealed.
I hope that, by the Council of 6 and 7 December, it will be possible to conclude a unanimous agreement on a substantial positive list that fulfils the objective of a mechanism for an effective European arrest warrant that can be implemented in a straightforward way.
Regarding the last aspect that I wish to focus on, the Commission has included in its proposal a set of rules that are intended to reconcile effectiveness in the fight against crime, on the one hand, and the protection of citizens' rights and fundamental freedoms on the other.
It is true that one of the essential elements for the creation of this mechanism is the principle of mutual trust that has resulted from the Member States signing up to the Council of Europe' s European Convention of Human Rights of 1950 and from having jointly proclaimed the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union in December of 2000.
I would say, however, that it is, nevertheless, important to emphasise some specific mechanisms that should be included in this framework decision in order to guarantee and safeguard the fundamental rights of our citizens.
Other amendments along the same lines consist of bringing the wording of the Ne bis in idem rule, laid down in Article 29 of the Commission' s proposal, into line with the wording of Article 50 of the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights so as to obviate the requirement for the arrest warrant to be accompanied by proof that the individual has been duly informed of the procedure in time to prepare a defence in the event that he or she is sentenced in absentia.
Another good example of these rules is the deduction of the period of deprivation of liberty from the punishment laid down in Article 24 of the Commission proposal, which states that the period of detention in the Member State executing the warrant must be taken into account for the purposes of calculating compensation in the event that the individual surrendered is not convicted.
There must be a balance between the need for speed and effective cooperation between judicial authorities and the interests of individuals, who must not be subjected to additional or excessive constraints or have their ability to mount a defence hampered.
These issues require a horizontal approach and, therefore, we propose finalising them at a later date in a specific mechanism.
Not an agreement at any price, but an agreement that responds to the challenge of the fight against terrorism and organised crime before us.
Madam President, I think that today our thoughts should focus on the basics, which are the good fortune and responsibility of living in democratic States governed by the rule of law.
In a democratic State governed by the rule of law, any political demand is acceptable and to be respected and the democratic confrontation of ideas is always to be welcomed; these are our standards, our very essence, our identifying mark, on which the whole idea of European integration is founded.
Finally, harmonisation wherever this may be necessary and the need for harmonisation with regard to terrorism is obvious, because only six Member States had any legislation covering this area.
Madam President, I trust, no, I am sure, that by voting for these reports with an overwhelming majority tomorrow, Parliament will be giving, as it always has, the political signal that, as responsible representatives of the citizens, we have the obligation to work on the construction of democratic States governed by the rule of law, in those countries in which we are fortunate enough to live.
Madam President, since 11 September, there have been many opportunities to think about and debate upon the consequences of the events of that fateful day and today is no exception.
These events have also reminded us that we were a long way behind in meeting the commitments that the Heads of State and Government had given in Tampere in order to develop the third pillar of the European Union.
I hope that these and other contributions will be added to the text that the Council is debating, and, in particular, this latter amendment, which I hope the rapporteur will also vote for and will be taken into consideration when the European list of terrorist organisations that Parliament requested is drawn up.
The Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs should fulfil their duty on the 6 and 7 December, and if they do not do so, the Presidency will have to honour its commitment to Parliament to take this issue at Laeken, and if any Member State there is tempted to block a proposal that has the widespread support of our citizens, it seems appropriate to me that closer cooperation should be implemented according to provisions of Article 40 of the Treaty.
The Council' s requests do not date from 11 September.
Madam President, the two provisions we are debating today respond to both a conviction and an objective: the conviction that we can defeat terrorism and our objective to strengthen the Rule of Law, providing all the instruments necessary to achieve this.
In a democracy, political ideas are put to the test in the voting booth, and not put forward by terrorists.
I would like to clearly point out what will be changed by these two initiatives when they are adopted by the Laeken European Council : firstly, Europe will cease to 'show solidarity with' and instead be 'responsible for' .
The solidarity of Europeans with Spanish democrats in their fight against ETA will give way to the responsibility of all European democrats to defeat terrorism.
An injunction will have to be able to be executed without delay, whether it has been issued by a Spanish judge or a French judge, against an individual who is sought in one or other of the countries.
Madam President, the argument that the anti-terrorism measures and the European arrest warrant do not skimp on fundamental rights, is only sustainable if the protection system of the European Convention on Human Rights for defendants is adhered to in practice.
Another worrying development in the UK is the intention to let police and security cooperation measures slip through the Westminster Parliament without proper democratic scrutiny.
Coupled with Council secrecy, this means a very unsatisfactory position in terms of democracy, justice and human rights.
If the illegal capture of State or government facilities, public modes of transport, infrastructures or public places constitutes a terrorist offence or if the legitimate expression of our freedoms of expression and association, our trade union rights, could, in the future, be criminalised or described as terrorism, if those elements are retained, by voting in favour of these reports we will be renouncing all of our democratic rights.
An explicit guarantee of these rights and freedoms must be included in this proposal for a framework directive.
A minimum degree of harmonisation of Member States' criminal procedures is necessary in order to safeguard the principle of equality before the law and guarantee the protection of rights in the principle of collegiality.
If we are to establish an area of security, freedom and justice, these three dimensions need to be fully effective.
The fight against terrorism needs to be reflected in security for all residents, without exception and in total respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Many European governments are using the criminal terrorist action of 11 September against the United States as an excuse to issue further legislation curbing freedoms which has nothing to do with combating terrorism.
It is strange that we can never manage to find a legal formula to define this major social massacre as an act of terrorism, while we had no hesitation in labelling as terrorist acts all those demonstrations of social opposition which have taken place recently in Seattle, Genoa and so forth.
Article 3 of the proposal for a framework decision on terrorism sends a clear message to all those who, in the future, attempt to show their opposition to the neo-liberal monopoly on thinking and the resulting social system.
Women, men, workers, students, the unemployed, pacifists and ecologists will no longer be opposing the system but will be terrorists because - as Hegel, then an old man, wrongly said - 'the real is rational and the rational real' , and for our legislators nothing is more real than the present social and economic disorder and nothing is more irrational, and therefore terrorist, than the need to overthrow and eliminate it.
Madam President, after the events of 11 September, Europe and the European institutions must also assume their responsibility and find the courage to achieve a joint agreement between the Member States on combating terrorism and, in general, combating organised crime, without delay.
The emotion of the tragic terrorist attacks of recent months must certainly prompt us to strengthen judicial cooperation between the Member States without delay, but in speeding up this process we must take things one step at a time and act responsibly.
We would therefore express our concern at the Belgian Presidency' s proposal to apply the European arrest warrant to a list of around 30 categories of offences immediately.
In our opinion, terrorism or the trafficking of human beings, to give just two examples, cannot be placed on the same level as counterfeiting or forgery.
That rejection is something I express not only as a politician but, first and foremost, as a lawyer.
In fact, by way of example, the revelations published today in the Italian daily newspaper La Repubblica on the change of hands of important nuclear material which is already part of the stock owned by the Mobutu regime, offer a very serious perspective on this trafficking which has taken place and may still be taking place at this very moment in the States of the European Union.
Following the attacks of 11 September, policy against terrorism had to be tightened in Europe too.
This is a bridge too far for a variety of reasons: it pushes countries with a milder climate in terms of criminal law into the defensive and calls into question the fairness of the course of justice.
Such a proposal revolutionises the application of national and European criminal law and therefore deserves a well considered and transparent decision-making process, preceded by a proper public debate.
Moreover, Parliament is forced to pronounce judgment on the Commission proposal while the Council has, in fact, already turned it on its head: a positive list instead of a negative one, and behind closed doors.
However, we do want to underline that the term terrorism is to be defined as proposed by the European Parliament, for I am a little wary in that respect.
If the Council refuses to accept these, we will review our position and convince our colleagues in the national parliaments of the fact that better protection of citizens' freedoms is necessary for a fair course of justice.
Madam President, I too would like to join others in welcoming the opportunity to have this debate.
The time is so short that it will not allow us to get fully into all the intricacies and details.
However, what is before us here today with regard to the European arrest warrant represents a major interference in and alteration of the national criminal justice systems and the civil rights and protections afforded to each individual within each of the Member States.
It is a mistake to move this far, this quickly, without properly understanding or fully recognising the differences between the criminal systems within the European Union.
I have represented constituents in other Member States in the European Union where they have been held without trial for two years, without getting any opportunity for habeas corpus or any opportunity to present their case.
Finally, on the overall package on combating terrorism, we have to ensure respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to talk about such sensitive issues when there is so little time available but I would like to confirm that, contrary to what many speakers have said, we have increased protection following 11 September and drawn up a raft of measures which include those we are debating this evening.
However, last year, we instituted Eurojust and we have already delivered one major opinion, as has been mentioned, to the effect that Eurojust should harmonise judicial cooperation within Europe.
Thank you, Madam President.
I certainly welcome the fact that, today, we are finally debating these two reports: the Watson report and the Gebhardt report, although it is unfortunate that this should be a consequence of the tragic events of 11 September in the United States.
We can make an advance of fundamental importance, a giant step forward in complying with the Tampere agreements and in creating a European area of freedom, security and justice, that everybody wants, respecting the balance between freedom and security, the importance of which no one doubts.
And, most importantly, we shall be able to provide our own small contribution to the solution of this difficult, complex and painful problem that weighs heavy upon us and knows no borders, which is terrorism.
Parliament carried out its work before 11 September and it continues to do so now: I am referring to the Resolution we approved on 5 September.
I therefore see the European arrest warrant as a huge step forward in European integration too, and that is why I find the position of the Italian government, which is showing concern at the inclusion of offences, particularly financial offences, in this list, frankly incomprehensible.
I can say, with pride, looking at my colleague Bárbara Dührkop, and at so many victims, and almost with emotion, that in my country, nobody has given into the temptation of implementing or asking for emergency measures.
There is no technical reason, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that can justify this, and no European citizen will accept the explanation that, for technical reasons, we are unable to make progress on tracking down terror and crime.
It is entirely consistent with the Indian proposal which is now under discussion at the United Nations in New York, and I can assure you that it is completely clear in the recitals that we do not include anti-globalisation demonstrations or trade union action in the scope of terrorist activities.
We understand the political difficulty and, even, the political drama, constituted by this enormous step forwards that we are taking in order to make Europe an area of freedom, security and justice, and we know that, ultimately, what we need to do is to be true to the values, as I am sure we will be, of respect for the rule of law and the fundamental freedoms of the citizens, but, at the same time, we know that with freedom comes the responsibility to resolutely combat crime and terrorism, and we will therefore combat crime and terrorism resolutely.
The debate is closed.
and resumed at 9 p.m.) Aviation safety The next item on the agenda is the debate on the report (A5-0415/2001), by Mrs Foster, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security. [COM(2001) 575 - C5-0481/2001 - 2001/0234(COD)] Mr President, the tragic events of 11 September in the United States have given new impetus to the reinforcement of arrangements for aviation security.
The European Council meeting the day after the terrorist attacks on the USA instructed the Transport Council to evaluate the measures to be taken to improve aviation security and complete its consideration of those already proposed.
The draft regulation itself was fairly straightforward and has been amended.
The technical standards themselves are those adopted by ECAC in 1992 in Document 30, part 2, relating to security issues revised in January 2001 and, as mentioned, currently being updated.
ECAC membership extends to 38 European States including all EU Member States.
It is worth pointing out to Parliament that this agreement reached by the 38 countries will set a precedent in so far as for the first time the agreement will have binding force upon its contracting parties.
Document 30 had previously been used for general guidance only.
To conclude, we are all aware of the catastrophic effects on the aviation industry and tourist sector as a result of 11 September.
This report is not the sole solution but it is a step in the right direction provided that the Member States recognise their moral duty to protect their citizens and accept their responsibility to assist in the financing of these additional security measures.
The events of 11 September have, of course, revealed additional deficiencies, which we have to consider in isolation from the structural problems already suffered by many airlines.
My group and I also take the view that, since safety is in the public interest and must be guaranteed for every citizen who uses airlines, public funds must also bear their share of the costs that an increase in safety entails.
Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me firstly to express my gratitude to this House, to this Parliament, for including the theme of security in civil aviation on the agenda for this part-session.
A series of amendments is dedicated to ensuring that part of the implementation costs of the security measures are covered by the Member States of the European Union, on a permanent or temporary basis.
With regard to these amendments, the Commission fully agrees with the spirit of Nos 1, 6, 10, 11, 15, 19, 21 and 22, and can accept them in principle, even though they raise important issues relating to the method of financing the security measures.
Today, the situation can vary between one county and another, even between one airport and another; however, the Commission does not think that this factor could improve the effectiveness of the security measures.
It is also possible that the financing of provisions that are not directly related to the improvement of security will not be included in this regulation.
However, with the aim of finding a solution to the significant problem of financing additional measures, I repeat that I am ready to undertake an analysis of the need to harmonise the organisation and financing of security controls in Member States, given what is happening in the United States, and to make the proposals necessary to take the result of this analysis into account.
With this action, the Commission would be taking account of the opinion demonstrated by this Parliament through the various amendments that will surely be approved tomorrow.
With regard to Amendment No 7, which proposes the removal of a Community control mechanism aimed at checking the proportionality and justification of stricter security measures in civil aviation adopted by Member States, the Commission must reject this amendment, even though Parliament and Council are of the same opinion.
Amendment No 9 suggests that the results of the Community inspection reports should be sent to each airline.
These reports, ladies and gentlemen, contain general information on the implementation of the regulation by European Union Member States, and on the functioning of their own quality control systems and their ability to detect faults.
The Commission could also accept Amendment No 20, but would point out that implementing its extraterritorial effects on the basis of bilateral or multilateral controls would be a complicated matter.
Thank you, Mr President.
And I would also like to thank Parliament for the urgency and effort it has afforded this measure, which is of fundamental importance, and I hope that in March we will finally reach full agreement between all the institutions.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
This blockade situation has now seen the Commission produce a proposal for a directive which recalls elements of the 1995 agreement and incorporates parts of them in the protocols, a proposal which, incidentally, Parliament had already made before the 1995 Summit.
In order to make good this deficiency, the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgetary Control call for the next revision of the Treaties to include the establishment of a European State Prosecutor's Office, on the corpus juris model and appertaining to the first pillar.
The Committee on Budgetary Control proposes, as an intermediate step without amending the Treaty, the establishment of an internal financial prosecutor in accordance with the three-phase model in the second report of the Committee of Wise Men.
There is no doubt that a regulation is the legal instrument to be preferred in order to avoid new confusion of the sort that there has been in the past.
Mr President, if you take a look at the figures for fraud and the irregularities affecting the European Budget in the year 2000, you see, above all, a massive increase in the irregularities that have come to light.
I think that what would happen would be something quite different from what the Commission expects from us as an action plan.
As the example of Slovakia has shown, the point at issue is not the acceding countries, but the continuing inability of this Commission to get a proper grip on the problematic aspects of enlargement, so that our fellow citizens might get the idea that enlargement has been prepared for in such a way, including financially, that they can happily say yes to it.
The Commission bears great responsibility in this respect.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1995 the Member States jointly signed a convention under which, in order to safeguard Community interests and finances, the Member States make fraud against Community finances a punishable offence.
I do not deny that in the year 2000 there was some movement in the direction of ratification.
The protocol that makes money laundering a crime has so far been ratified by only seven Member States.
Provisions concerning cooperation between the national criminal prosecution authorities would be incompatible with Article 280 of the Treaty since they are concerned with the application of the Member States' criminal law and their administration of criminal justice.
Neither can the Commission go along with the suggestion of converting the directive into a regulation, since the Community cannot, at present, create law that is directly applicable in the Member States.
I understand your concern and in view of the present situation I, of course, also support the call for your wish to be met swiftly, but we are a long way from a situation where the European Community can create directly applicable law.
The Commission has listed the proposals we put forward in the year 2000 in the fraud prevention report, for example the proposal to amend the money laundering directive, the proposal to prevent counterfeiting of the euro or measures to combat product piracy.
The United Kingdom has, for example, set up a coordination point for general investigations involving the Structural Funds.
For the Structural Funds, the rapporteur, you, Mr Bösch, has included the Court of Auditors' highly critical report, which highlights the differences between the Member States in the application of the regulation that irregularities in the implementation of the Structural Funds must be reported.
It also depends on cooperation with the Member States, and OLAF is working closely with the so-called COCOLAF.
Unfortunately, some Member States have already taken quite a clear stance against this directive on grounds of legal dogma.
All the Member States say in the Council, yes, of course, we must do something about this, but then they argue no, that is something that belongs in the third pillar, not in the first pillar.
And the population will not accept them saying they can do nothing because one thing is the first pillar but another is the third pillar and the Community can only take action in the third pillar.
I should like, first of all, to thank the two Members for all their work in writing these reports.
Only two people have ever been prosecuted by OLAF and this is a green light to fraudsters in the EU.
Mr President, I too should like to start with a word of thanks to the two rapporteurs.
In order to avoid any misunderstandings, we are clearly in favour of a public prosecutor, but mid-2002 is slightly too early.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Prodi Commission' s existing policy on fighting fraud can really only be described as hesitant and dilatory when it comes to the really crucial questions.
You are claiming for yourself the right to decide whether informing Parliament about a procedure is in the European Union' s interest or not.
Thank you very much, Mrs Stauner.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Quality of petrol and diesel fuels The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0389/2001) by Mrs Hautala, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels (COM(2001) 241 - C5-0197/2001 - 2001/0107(COD)).
This is of essential importance, since it has been observed that the consumption of fuels also falls when the sulphur content is reduced, and, in the meantime, climate policy has become a central objective in the European Union.
The motor industry will be able to develop better and more advanced engines, which will use less fuel.
We are also proceeding from the assumption, which the Commission also proposes, that this introduction to the market shall start in 2005.
A majority vote in the committee demanded a rather faster implementation than the Commission proposed even if some of us were concerned at the Commission's assertion that this will, in fact, produce a net increase in CO2 emissions.
We would also point out that the EU standard of 10 parts per million of sulphur contrasts with an American standard of 15 ppm of sulphur.
We understand that proposals on this matter will be forthcoming in 2002.
I am pleased in one sense, because it enables me to return to a former stamping ground.
But I am also unhappy I have to be here because the reason is that Commissioner Wallström is not well.
The availability of fuels with a maximum sulphur content of 10 parts per million will remove any remaining technical barriers to the introduction of the most fuel efficient vehicles, which will in turn provide a basis for further reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide.
Several of the amendments propose that the final date after which all petrol and diesel sold would be subject to a maximum sulphur content of 10 parts per million, should be advanced by three years to the 1 January 2008 with the possibility of derogation for those Member States where that seems to be justified.
The Commission chose the date of 1 January 20ll, with the date for diesel subject to confirmation by 31 December, five years before in 2006, so that all Member States would enjoy a mix of air quality benefits and some reductions in CO2 emissions resulting from 10 parts per million fuel.
Although the Commission is willing to consider some advancement in the final date from 1 January 2011, the Commission does not favour Parliament's approach linked to possible prolongation.
The Commission therefore, cannot accept Amendments Nos 5,11, 15, 18, 23, 31, 32, 38 and 39.
The Commission can also accept Amendments Nos 22 and 46 and in part, Amendments Nos 8, 17, 42, 43 and 45, relating to defining in greater detail the availability of petrol and diesel with a maximum sulphur content of 10 parts per million fuel, during the introductory period.
Then there is the question of the quality of fuel used in non-road mobile machinery.
A number of other amendments refer to the need to improve and harmonise the quality of fuel used in this machinery across the Community.
The Commission acknowledges that the relative importance of emissions in this sector continues to grow as the environmental performance of engines used in on-road applications improves.
Indeed, it is already clear that the fuel used in this sector in some Member States will have to be improved in the future.
However, as the work on the next stage of emission standards for compression ignition engines used in non-road applications is not finalised, nor is the required fuel quality for such standards yet identified, the Commission cannot at this point accept Amendments Nos 3, 12, 26, 37 and 40.
The Commission does not accept Amendments Nos 10, 19 and 27 on fiscal incentives in view of the legal basis of this proposal, nor given the possibilities available to Member States under other Community legislation to fiscally promote cleaner fuels through tax incentives.
On the question of alternative fuels, and bio-fuels in particular, the Commission is pleased to consider this subject in more depth, as work on this subject evolves.
The Commission can therefore accept Amendments Nos 33 and 48 and in principle, Amendments Nos 14 and 44.
The Commission can also accept Amendment No 47 in part, relating to other issues to be taken into account in the review and Amendment No 28, in principle and Amendment No 29, relating to reporting.
Concerning the remaining amendments, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 20, 21, 24, 25, 36 and 41.
We can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 16 and 34.
Finally, I would like to say that the Parliament has significantly contributed to improving this proposal.
The debate is closed.
We are not opposing the association agreement; we are just calling for its adoption to be deferred because association agreements, in particular, contain a very tough human rights clause.
Thus far, the Commission and the Council have never, and I repeat, never, attempted to use cooperation or association agreements to secure respect for human rights.
Ironically, we are being called upon to vote at the precise moment when Egypt is showing a particularly worrying tendency to persecute homosexuals - with a trial in which 26 people were condemned to up to 5 years of solitary confinement - and Catholics.
September 11 should have taught us that we must apply the same principles to our friends, as to our enemies.
We must give Egypt the time to reflect, because if we diminish the rights of individuals living in those countries, ultimately, we diminish our own human rights.
The draft agreement contains 92 articles concerning not only economic and social issues, but also the political dialogue which is important for achieving progress and peace.
Need I remind you that, unlike certain other Arab countries, Egypt has never been a breeding ground for terrorists?
On the contrary, Egypt has paid dearly for terrorism.
The Member States and we, ourselves, must ratify this agreement.
We owe it also to Egypt, a great country and a friend of Europe, acknowledged for its role in working for peace in the Middle East.
The Arab Republic of Egypt is the largest Arab country in terms of population: it has over 66 million inhabitants.
Egypt was the first Arab country to establish diplomatic relations with Israel.
Relations between the European Union and Egypt go back a long way.
The first cooperation agreement was signed in 1972.
Egypt also receives significant funds from cooperation with the European Union: it received EUR 686 million through the MEDA I programme between 1996 and 1999.
But, in some instances, higher courts overturn these initial verdicts and act more leniently, in accordance with democratic principles.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 July this year, along with some of my colleagues from the Group of the Europe People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I met the Egyptian Foreign Minister and representatives of the People' s Assembly of the Arab Republic of Egypt in Cairo.
We were struck by the pertinence of how our Egyptian friends assessed the situation; and this came home to me at the time of the dreadful events of 11 September.
This is why I particularly welcome the excellent report by Mr Hughes Martin.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the rapporteur has done a very good piece of work with this report and we can be pleased that after so many years of negotiations Egypt has at last agreed with us to sign this report.
Article 2 cannot therefore be simply a political clause.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the proposed signing of an association agreement between the European Union and Egypt, which will help to strengthen the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
The European Union attaches great importance to the chapter on fundamental rights and freedoms.
Since 1981, Egypt has been subject to an emergency law granting wide powers to the authorities, to the detriment of human rights and democratic freedoms.
The valuable work undertaken by NGOs has alerted us to this matter.
Bear in mind that at least six million Egyptian citizens are involved.
I would therefore urge the Commission, the Council and the Member State governments to put these abuses on the agenda during the consultation with the Egyptian authorities.
The positive element, namely that since 11 September, the Coptic churches have been having talks with the Egyptian authority, reinforces this essential provision.
Given that seven years have already passed, as you have said, deciding to wait maybe another month or two to give ourselves the time to find a response to specific issues before implementing an agreement which, I am glad to say, is irreversible on many points, is, I feel, being realistic.
We know that there is a human rights clause, we know that this clause could, theoretically, encourage respect for human rights in Egypt and maybe even increase comprehension of a country such as Egypt in Europe.
We have endeavoured, in our proposal, to be just that little bit more realistic than you.
Egypt, as a number of speakers have said, plays a significant role in supporting the Middle East peace process and the point that the honourable and gallant gentleman General Morillon made about the sacrifices that some have made in supporting that peace process is entirely correct.
We are also delighted that Egypt supports a more substantial involvement by the European Union in the Middle East peace process.
It is also very active in other regional issues, notably in promoting a resolution of the civil war in the Sudan, in promoting regional free trade through initiatives like the Agadir process which also involves, of course, Morocco, Tunisia, Jordan and COMESA.
The association agreement was a long time in negotiation but its signature marked an important new stage in Europe's relations with Egypt.
The 1978 Cooperation Agreement served its purpose very well but the European Union and Egypt have changed beyond recognition and a new agreement was necessary to underpin what has become an altogether more mature relationship.
The Agreement responds to the enormous interests, both economic and political, both bilateral and regional, that the European Union and Egypt have in common and the result of the negotiations is good for both sides.
It is good for Egypt because it will help the Egyptian economy to face the challenge of globalisation more successfully and more competitively and to carry through reforms within the context of a privileged economic and political relationship with us.
With this agreement the infrastructure of association agreements which underpins it is now largely in place and I hope that we will make good progress shortly with Algeria, the Lebanon and Syria.
Let me just refer again to the free trade area which is proposed between the countries which signed that agreement in Agadir.
It is more than a shame that the agreement with Jordan, for example, has still not been ratified by all the Member States and we need to encourage people to get on with the ratification of these agreements rather more rapidly.
We obviously welcome the excellent report which has been drafted by the honourable gentleman Mr Martin.
Certainly, the procedural delays in the ratification process by some Member States are often incomprehensible to our Mediterranean partners.
All aspects of the European Union's relationship with Egypt, including the respect for human rights, are continuously monitored by the Commission which is vigilant on human rights issues irrespective of the agreement.
The provisions of the new agreement provide both sides with important safeguards and a valuable additional forum.
We collaborate closely with Member States in taking positions on these issues and I hope that Parliament will have noted that we never hesitate to make our views known to the Egyptian authorities.
Most recently, the Commission delegation has explained the contractual basis of grants to non-governmental organisations in the context of the Saad Ibrahim appeal which I have discussed in the past with my Egyptian counterparts.
We have joined with Member States in expressing our concern to the Egyptian authorities at the outcome of the recent trial of homosexuals and I understand the concerns that have been expressed by honourable Members about their case.
But we should also note encouraging developments, the new social legislation on the rights of women, the supervision of elections by the courts and the important rulings by courts on the constitutionality of contentious legislation.
The need for good and fluid European relations with Egypt can seldom have been more important.
In the last few weeks everybody has been talking about the vital importance of trying to demonstrate to the Arab and Islamic world that the campaign against terrorism is not the West setting Europe and the United States against the world of Islam.
We have an agreement which gives us the chance of putting in place a foundation stone for our relations with the countries around the Mediterranean.
The idea that you could have a serious policy on the Mediterranean without having an agreement with Egypt is "for the birds", as the Americans say.
We want to pursue our dialogue on human rights with Egypt and other countries in the Barcelona process but it would be bizarre to argue that Europe should have a serious constructive policy in the Mediterranean and that it should have a deep and profound dialogue with Islamic countries and at the same time reject an association agreement with Egypt.
I would like to inform Commissioner Patten that it was not the intention of the House this evening to reject the association agreement but to defer it.
As to lectures in human rights, we all - regardless of our record - need to be lectured on human rights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, the answer to the question of whether we can support the Commission proposal to extend the activities of the European Agency for Reconstruction to include Macedonia is, in fact, quite simple.
This doubt had nothing to do with the appreciation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy for the European Agency for Reconstruction.
I have pointed out the great significance of the developments in Macedonia for the European Union many times, both earlier in this debate and at other occasions, notably after 11 September.
We can therefore feel a certain optimism, even though history has all too often shown us that peace is fragile, especially in the Western Balkans.
In November 1999, the Council decided to give Macedonia macro-financial assistance to the tune of EUR 80 million, part of it in the form of a loan, together with a contribution of up to EUR 30 million.
Nonetheless, we have tabled a number of amendments in order to emphasise that this aid must be administered by the Commission, but in close consultation with both the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
In May 1999, we decided to provide the assistance in question, comprising a loan of EUR 20 million and contributions of up to EUR 40 million.
When it comes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the same conditions must, nonetheless, apply in this case, as apply in the case of Macedonia.
We have also arranged for the assistance to be paid out, provided that Yugoslavia continues to develop into a constitutional state and that the country continues to cooperate closely with the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
In all these three cases, we also believe that, in order to produce new resources during the current budget year, ordinary budget procedure must be followed.
Allow me, finally, just to say a few words about my and the Committee on Budgets' opinion on Mr Lagendijk' s report on the European Agency for Reconstruction.
Moreover, we wish to introduce a reference to Article 274 of the Treaty, in order to emphasise clearly that this is aid which the Commission and not, in the first place, the Member States have the responsibility for implementing.
Mr President, Mr Lagendijk has produced a very good report.
I think this rapid reaction facility, this way of getting money to crisis regions quickly, efficiently and without bureaucracy, really is a good instrument.
In Yugoslavia in particular, as the Commissioner has seen, they were grateful for this really quick and efficient assistance that was only possible because we had this instrument and did not have to use the usual longwinded procedure.
In that regard, I really am looking for a longer term scheme from you so that all the countries down there can feel they are being treated, more or less, equally and I think that is also important if we are to avoid creating rivalries between them.
While we were negotiating that agreement, during each of my visits to FYROM - and I have visited Skopje probably more than any other capital city in the world in the last couple of years - we were regularly on the receiving end of grumbles about the lack of speed of our delivery of development assistance.
When the crisis came this year, we worked very hard and I pay a particular vote of gratitude to the work of my colleague, Javier Solana.
The most certain way in which we could deliver the assistance was by extending the work of the Reconstruction Agency and that is why we are all here this evening.
But I hope that we have managed to convince honourable Members that there was no intention on our part to downgrade our relationship with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
He was en route to a prayer breakfast - I am afraid I was not - and I think that we have managed to convince him and the authorities in Skopje now that we are just trying to deliver assistance as rapidly as possible and we have already been delivering assistance in the sectors electricity and housing, etc.
It is understandable that honourable Members should think that there is some confusion in our management strategy for the whole region, But I do not feel that I am being inconsistent in arguing, on the one hand, that we have to work through Europe Aid, through deconcentration, which has now begun and which we must now push as rapidly as possible, while on the other hand, saying there may be odd occasions, particularly crises, which require different sort of arrangements.
We are considering for example, at the moment how to deal with the situation in Afghanistan - whether we should put a task force into Afghanistan in order to get quick-acting projects going as soon as possible.
So I do not think that it is inconsistent to press ahead with the reform of Europe Aid, while at the same time thinking that from time to time other arrangements are necessary.
Perhaps I can just remind honourable Members that we pledged EUR 30 million to the implementation of the framework agreement and that we have also been disbursing EUR 12.5 million under the rapid reaction mechanism.
We have committed about EUR 5 million through ECHO to humanitarian relief and we have got a regular CARDS programme of EUR 42 million for this year for FYROM.
We were first of all insisting on the implementation of the framework agreement on the passage of amendments to the Constitution through the Parliament in Skopje.
It is absolutely crucial, as my colleague Commissioner Solbes would assure you, if we are to provide macro-financial assistance at a donors conference, that there must be an agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
President Trikovsky assured me this week that an agreement with the IMF is now on the cards and I think the relevant meeting in Washington is at the beginning of December.
They are concerned about the coherence of what we are doing in Southeast Europe and understandably press us to set out our strategy for the management of community assistance for the Balkans.
We have a good team of people working on the Balkans in the Commission.
I do not want to make unreasonable demands on them, but I can assure Parliament that, as early next year as I can manage it, I will come to Parliament to try to set out the sort of strategy which I think honourable Members are entitled to ask for and which we should be pleased to give.
I have been in this job for just over two years and what I am going to say does not suggest that all that has happened is because there has been a new Commission - I am not suggesting that at all.
To date, we have disbursed EUR 30 million.
The first two tranches have already been disbursed, one at the end of 1999 and the other at the end of 2000.
Progress is being achieved in the areas of stabilisation and economic reform.
Mr Farm also mentioned the need to extend the period agreed on, since that initially planned for implementation of contributions has expired.
From another perspective, the rapporteur also referred to the need to adjust financial or macro-financial aid to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The current EUR 300 million, of which 225 is loans and 75 is grants is proving insufficient.
EUR 260 million has already been disbursed and the Commission is currently preparing to meet with the Yugoslav authorities again in the near future.
To take the reference CARDS in connection with multiannual assistance as an example of consistency, we have stated quite clearly on a number of occasions in plenary that CARDS has nothing to do with macro-financial assistance.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria The next item is the proposal for a European Parliament and Council resolution on the contribution to the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria [COM(2001) 612 - C5-0520/2001 - 2001/0251(COD)].
Thank you, Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
I take the floor to defend the European Community' s contribution to the fight against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, a bittersweet task.
As stated in our Amendment No 2, the first EUR 60 million from the 2001 budget should be added to existing resources and not withdrawn from other budget lines already earmarked for development programmes.
At the G8 Summit held in July 2000 in Okinawa, the rich industrialised G8 countries pledged substantial funds to fight communicable diseases and help the sick in poor countries.
In September last year the Commission held a conference on the subject in Brussels but no action followed.
My report, unanimously approved on 4 October this year has been sitting on the shelf collecting dust.
The Council adopted a proposal for a legal basis for the fund to be implemented but so far not one euro has been given, and a further 2 million people have died.
The Commissioners have gone.
We have often debated these problems in the past, but quite rightly do so again tonight: 36.1 million people are living with HIV/AIDS in this world, tuberculosis is making a tragic comeback, 300 million people suffer the debilitating and painful effects of malaria.
But it should reflect also on why the second reading proposals on our own support through the poverty diseases line were cut back from Parliament's demands, and why President Prodi announced EUR 60 million of support from the global health fund from the ACP countries, which it was not his right to do and, as we heard in this Chamber from their President-in-Office they oppose.
The European Parliament has made its stance on this issue clear in voting for the Khanbhai report.
We were naturally very encouraged by the decision to release a further EUR 120 million.
However, the proposal put before us today, after some prevarication, only amounts to EUR 60 million.
The WHO predicts that the least developed countries will lose a fifth of their GNP between now and 2010 because of the disease.
The Commission requested the urgency procedure to establish a legal base for a financial commitment to the fund under this year's budget amending the legal base of budget line B7-6211 Aid for Poverty Related Diseases in Developing Countries.
We proposed to transfer EUR 60 million to this line.
I regret that the proposal was transmitted so late in the year to the budget authority but this reflects the fact that we did not have anything good or clear enough before that.
I appreciate your determination in Parliament to make this process a success, despite these procedural hurdles.
I welcome the outcome of the discussions last week between the three institutions.
The Commission can accept the oral amendment proposed by the honourable MEPs here today and for which you will vote tomorrow, in order to obtain a timely agreement by Council.
I would however, for the sake of transparency, like to express some sort of warning because if the idea is to pool resources in a global fund, we must avoid becoming such a difficult partner in this work by insisting on our systems of reporting, our auditing and our accounting procedures.
This is the problem we have already with other international organisations and where the Commission is an inadequate partner in many cases.
It would be a big mistake to think - and even worse to express - that the only thing we are doing is in relation to this fund.
Everybody knows that this is not the case but we hope this fund will add something to the other ways in which we are working.
This longer-term legal basis will serve as the base for implementation of the Programme for Action on Communicable Diseases in the years 2003-2006.
In the first reading of the Budget for 2002, Parliament proposed a new specific budget line for the fund from next year onwards but we have now agreed to regroup this specific budget line with the one for poverty diseases and use one integrated legal basis.
The fund is expected to be up and running from January 2002 and all members of the fund's transitional working group are in discussion, trying to achieve consensus on a large number of outstanding and difficult issues.
I also look forward to working together with Parliament to make this new fund something which will actually increase the efficiency of our response to the struggle against these diseases.
Finally, let me reconfirm our proposal to allocate an addition EUR 60 million from the 9th EDF funds once the Cotonou Agreement is ratified and discussions have been finalised with the ACP Group.
These funds will be earmarked for activities in ACP countries.
The debate is closed.
