As in previous years, the ninth EU Annual Report on Human Rights 2007 is a genuinely joint report prepared by the Presidency, the European Commission and the General Secretariat of the Council.
The report aims to illustrate how the common values on which the EU is based translate into concrete human rights-related activities in its bilateral relations with third countries, in multilateral fora and in relation to a number of thematic issues.
The annual report includes comments on the resolution sponsored by the European Union on this subject during the 2006 session of the United Nations General Assembly.
The report also mentions the mechanisms developed within the EU to guarantee respect for and protection of human rights.
I should like to start by mentioning the steps taken throughout this year to implement the guidelines on the death penalty.
We have also reinforced our position against torture within the context of the guidelines and continued to improve the implementation of the guidelines on children in armed conflicts and also on human rights defenders.
Information is given on the development of policies and actions in relation to 20 different thematic issues, including not only those areas in which the EU has adopted human rights guidelines, but also other thematic issues, such as women's rights, children's rights, the fight against racism and the trafficking of human beings.
At the end of the day, this is a very good document which expresses what we have to say, and shows what we have been doing, in the field of human rights.
We now conduct dialogues with around 25 partner countries.
For example, we have established human rights dialogues with most of the European neighbourhood countries, and initial meetings have generally been quite - and sometimes highly - constructive.
However, as the number of dialogues increases, we must be vigilant to ensure consistency and effectiveness - a point that the European Parliament rightly underlined in its resolution of 6 September 2007.
I am pleased - and the Council Presidency has already noted this - that 2007 has seen the adoption of the new guidelines on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child, jointly with an implementation strategy.
In total, some EUR 140 million will be available each year under this instrument, and the first calls for project proposals are now open.
The year 2007 has been a year of achievements.
The annual report is a detailed survey of the actions taken by the EU globally in the sphere of human rights.
A major gap in the Council and Commission's 2007 human rights report is any response to the revelations, not least by this Parliament, of EU governments' collusion in extraordinary rendition.
The signing of the Charter of Fundamental Rights this week - welcome as it is, not least as it will be the first time that sexual orientation discrimination is banned in an international human rights instrument - rings hollow if we see hypocrisy in practice.
The European Union must not allow itself to be blackmailed by Serbia into signing the Association Agreement as a sweetener for the loss of Kosovo, unless and until Ratko Mladić and Radovan Karadžić are delivered to The Hague.
There are also some disturbing silences in this report.
We do not always do that, especially in the case of the right to freedom of expression.
We cannot build a better tomorrow on sand that is wet from the tears of unborn children. (PL) Mr President, we have before us the EU Annual Report on Human Rights.
Only by knowing concrete results will we be able to develop these actions in a coherent and efficient manner.
This is in contradiction of the Indian Government's responsibilities under Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
I ask the Council and Commission to investigate this case, and I appeal for all EU governments not to cooperate with this arrest warrant on a fundamental issue both of labour rights and of freedom of speech. (PL) Mr President, the report contains information on talks with Russian and Chinese leaders regarding respect for human rights.
Chechens are being seized from their homes, and when all organs suitable for transplantation have been removed from their bodies, they are dumped.
I am referring to the lack of a response from the European Council on the recommendations of this Parliament and Senator Dick Marty on the so-called CIA flights.
I could refer for instance to a 24-year-old Iranian woman named Delaram Ali who was sentenced to 32 months in jail and 10 lashes simply because she took part in a demonstration against the persecution of women.
There can be no doubt that the issue of human rights and good governance was an important, in fact, a very important issue in the dialogue that we held in Lisbon during the EU-Africa Summit.
You all know, ladies and gentlemen, as do all European citizens, that, in our dialogue with third countries, the issue of the defence of human rights is a constant and priority theme on our agenda and in our bilateral dialogue.
On Russia: we hold EU-Russia human rights consultations twice a year and Russia is also mentioned in our report twice, on pages 72 and 73: first consultations were highlighted, and, secondly, we spoke clearly on the human rights situation, including in Chechnya.
We are aware of the legal action that has been taken by Fibres and Fabrics International against the Clean Clothes Campaign.
