A month later, Nature brought the discoveries to the attention of the world scientific community in more detail.
These are two historic moments: little more than a year has passed between one and the other but it almost seems as if we are talking about two different periods in history.
I approached the report - a daunting task, and I do not know if I have been up to the job you asked me to do - guided by a principle which, to me, is absolutely fundamental: I did not consider going beyond the point where progress came up against the sanctity of human life, where it started to conflict with respect for human dignity.
I am in favour of progress in scientific research, not least because it is a source of economic development, but I believe we have to ensure that it does not become a kind of death trap for human beings because due attention was not paid to the ethical principles that should underlie it.
I believe he has presented an outstanding report, and the political message is clear: we are saying yes to research, yes to the treatment of serious diseases, but human dignity is the overriding principle and can set limits even to research.
This means, for example, that we reject the cloning of human beings at all stages of their development.
The first problem concerns the embryo.
The third problem concerns the precautions that must be taken with reproductive cloning.
What we need to do, instead, is to weigh up the values that are at stake and - proceeding with all due caution and prudence, keeping within all reasonable bounds and opposing all commercial arguments - still allow freedom of conscience, freedom of research and hope for new breakthroughs in the treatment of terrible diseases.
That is why my group hopes that the European Parliament will not go back on what it wisely decided only a fortnight ago.
The distinction between therapeutic and reproductive cloning is a semantic ploy.
Embryonic stem cell research also involves the destruction of embryos.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, encounters between politics and research are not always easy.
Research itself is impossible to imagine without risks.
The risk identified by today' s report is that medical research involves the desire to clone human beings.
In this myth, which is one of the founding myths of our era, the human race showed its capacity to exercise control over itself.
That leads me, finally, to emphasise that there is concern on two fronts, firstly, concern on the part of those who want to re-launch the campaign against a woman' s right to abortion, and, secondly, concern on the part of those who would be involved for the purpose of commercialising women' s bodies.
On behalf of my group, I fully support the provisions of paragraphs 54 and 55 of the motion for resolution which call for a ban on human cloning, regardless of the technique used, and on other activities which are intended to result in the modification of the human gene line.
Mr President, it is disappointing that we are only now able to deal with the important report of the temporary committee on human genetics.
I appeal to the Council, where this subject has still to be dealt with, to use a well-considered ethical framework.
This would mean, at any rate, that research which is banned in one or more Member States, such as research with human embryos, would never be eligible for Community funding.
The Fiori report gives a good overview of the ethical and other dilemmas that this research on human genetics entails.
The temporary committee has put a year' s hard work into it and, in general, I am satisfied with the report before us.
The report was radically modified by the rapporteur after revision.
Not a particular topic, because all topics relating to human genetics are tackled in this report, but nevertheless ...
We were astonished to hear reports that human embryos have been cloned in the United States.
Fortunately, Commissioner Busquin followed President Bush in condemning this experiment.
The Fiori report rightly calls for a ban on this therapeutic cloning.
Thank you, Mr Vidal-Quadras.
Consequently I cannot permit my view or that of other colleagues to be branded as fundamentalist in this House, as has just happened.
Finally, patent law is inadequate: the inviolability of the human body is established, but the legislation is ambiguous and as a result patents are granted that are not in the service of mankind or of possible cures.
The committee' s report will not create the basis for coherent legislation on biotechnology in the Member States of the European Union that many, like myself, were looking for.
For example, a fertilised human egg cell can only become a human being and nothing else.
This absolutely fundamental right has been put in writing again and again, most recently at the start of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
But today we must also express our support for progress in the biological sciences.
We are talking about scientific research with the potential to cure serious human diseases such as Parkinson' s, Alzheimer' s, MS, diabetes and perhaps even AIDS, to improve or prolong life.
There is no trace of subsidiarity in this report.
I have two basic concerns: firstly, much of the evidence suggests that developments on embryonic stem cell research may not deliver the results we all want in terms of progress on some of the most serious illnesses that afflict many members of our society and many of our own families; secondly, in the course of this research, we will allow people, and in particular, women suffering from infertility to be exploited.
One extreme position is the desire to ban all scientific research and imprison researchers, the other is the wish to allow every commercial use, such as those, for example, being developed by the American company Advanced Cell Technology, and hence making possible, at the individual level, everything that wealthy people can and are prepared to pay for.
Just as an American company succeeds in cloning a human embryo, the temporary committee on human genetics publishes its report, a report which is, incidentally, an excellent one.
In effect, it protects the human embryo by prohibiting cloning, whether for reproductive or for therapeutic purposes.
Stem cell research may well have new applications in treating illnesses such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, leukaemia and many others.
However, the boundaries on research in these fields must be marked out if we are to avoid ethical, social and legal problems.
Mr President, this debate is concerned with questions that are essential to humanity, such as what is life and how can we halt that ineluctable march towards death which is a characteristic of any existence?
Yet in order to become that human being, the embryo has to become implanted in a uterus and develop there for several months.
However, an embryo is not just a type of material.
That does not, however, mean that anything goes: just as freedom is, in itself, an absolute value but is never absolute because of the way things are, so science and scientific research are vital assets because of the important discoveries that can be put at the service of human kind but they cannot be considered absolute, that is to say, removed from legal, ethical or moral constraints.
Moreover, research on adult stem cells opens up the same prospects, though without the ethical problem.
Are we going to modify a gene merely on account of a predisposition, when we now know, following the discovery of the human genome, that a gene modifies other functions which are as yet unknown to us?
Mr President, it is mankind's misfortune, in my view, that recent discoveries in the field of biotechnology have come at a time when the capitalist system still prevails.
It should not be possible to patent any part of the human body, not one cell, not one atom.
No, research must retain the nobility of its purpose - to be at the service of human beings, and in particular to relieve suffering, to assist and care for the disabled, and to improve living conditions for everyone, including those in developing countries.
Our position must therefore be consistent and well founded.
We must not be subject to the whims of the moment, but must base our position on respect for the dignity of the human being, which is the only guarantee of scientific progress.
I therefore believe that the report deserves our full support.
Mr President, when we decided, about a year ago, to set up the temporary parliamentary committee on human genetics and other new technologies in modern medicine, we did not for a minute imagine that the vote in question would coincide with statements by Heads of State, scientists, private companies and other interested parties.
The announcement about advance cell technology, which uses cloning to create human embryos, makes today's vote even more crucial.
Citizens are quite capable of taking their own decisions honourably and conscientiously.
Personally, I am in favour of scientific research that is as free as possible, with the possible prospect of a cure for hitherto incurable diseases like Parkinson' s, diabetes and cardiovascular disease, although in the latter case you can, of course, simply stop smoking.
The work of our committee has shown that European science treats its responsibility conscientiously.
I cannot square with my conscience the fact that we do not support and in some cases even ban the types of research under discussion, including therapeutic cloning and stem cell research using residual embryos.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report on a difficult subject.
I believe that Parliament must firmly reject human cloning.
Recent developments in the United States are alarming indeed, but we cannot allow experimentation with, or a market in, human life.
Technically speaking, there is no difference between therapeutic and reproductive cloning.
If we allow human cloning to proceed under the guise of therapeutic cloning, we risk abuses which I fear would result in the production of a handicapped or impaired child.
Human embryos should not be created for research purposes, but this has indeed already happened in the US this summer.
It is vital that any such research in these sensitive areas be done under strict regulation and only in those countries where it is permitted and where there is adequate regulation.
This report also touches on the issue of the patenting of biotechnological inventions, Directive 98/44.
This Directive has passed through all the legislative processes necessary in the European Union to make it law, Commission, Council and Parliament.
In the first place, we must subject the directive to a thorough evaluation of its socio-economic consequences, and, if necessary, propose an amendment.
The sixth framework programme plays an essential part in this, but cooperation between national public institutions is at least as important.
Mr President, I speak on behalf of a substantial minority of my group that wishes to promote scientific research into embryonic stem cells and also supports therapeutic cloning: it is precisely with gene technology that medical breakthroughs can be achieved that would otherwise be impossible.
We firmly reject reproductive cloning, not only of human beings but also of animals.
The view that therapeutic cloning automatically leads to reproductive cloning is untenable.
I understand the objective, but we must be aware of the fact that this objective is really, underneath, an alibi, if we remember that there is another objective underlying it, that of the lure of immeasurable profits and potential markets.
It was in that spirit that I tabled Amendment No 213 on the non-patentability of living beings, like Amendment No 212, showing that there is no difference between therapeutic and non-therapeutic cloning.
It is also in that spirit that I appeal to the President of the European Parliament to allow our committee to become a permanent one, and I appeal to the President of the Commission to involve the parliaments of Europe in bioethics, so as not to deprive the public of this debate, and finally I appeal to the Heads of State and Government to commit to an international convention on bioethics.
Firstly, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work that he and his staff did in producing what was a good report until we had that regrettable vote in committee which has unfortunately now produced a report which I personally cannot support.
This debate on that report comes at a very opportune moment after American research companies announced that they had successfully cloned human embryos.
These proposals are restrictive and extreme.
The announcement in the United States this week has quite clearly demonstrated the speed at which research is now moving and the need to move technology and regulation on at the same pace.
Mr President, I am one of those opposed to cloning, including therapeutic cloning.
The distinction between it and reproductive cloning is mainly a semantic one and, in any case, therapeutic cloning opens the door to reproductive cloning.
The suggestion that therapeutic cloning is indispensable for the preservation of human health is misleading: there are alternative research methods that are also promising.
To not allow public funding for research which is legal in a Member State is a curious sanction: nobody is forcing any Member State to make any type of research legal.
But this means that our political responsibility is also growing.
We must, therefore, speak out clearly against reproductive and therapeutic cloning of human embryos, against any interventions in the human germ line and against the production of human embryos solely for research purposes.
When it comes to stem cell research, I am, in principle, against research that consumes embryos.
I do, however, find the research into the 72 embryonic stem cell lines that were already in existence before 1 August 2001 acceptable in basic research.
A human life is of value in itself, right from its commencement, and therefore its dignity must be consciously protected.
These techniques are already showing great success in practical use, far greater than embryonic stem cell research.
The ethical guidelines in his report were agreed after a year of debate and discussion.
There was overwhelming support for ethical research but rejection of any form of human cloning, destruction of human embryos in research, or germ line intervention.
Amendment No 238 would allow germ line intervention for therapeutic purposes and this amendment, combined with Amendment No 237, would allow therapeutic cloning.
In fact, a supposedly civilised society such as ours, which flies the flag of human rights, cannot tolerate the manipulation of the human being, even in its embryonic state, however noble the objective may be.
Therefore, research using embryonic mother cells, even if they are surplus, human cloning - of whatever kind, because it is all the same, since it means the destruction of a human being or opens the door to that possible destruction - and the creation of embryos for research, are unacceptable practices because they attack the dignity of the human being and the supreme value of life which this Parliament, and the European Union, claims to defend so passionately.
Recent developments in human cloning in the United States have once again highlighted the need for, and the urgency of, in-depth political reflection in this area, including and especially at European level.
I shall deal with them in the order in which they have been mentioned.
As Article 13 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states, research should be free but, on the other hand, technological progress may, of course, only be applied in an absolutely responsible manner.
The Commission is to undertake a study of the various technical options that are possible in this area.
There is also an obvious need for genetic research into rare diseases to be better coordinated at European level.
I would also remind you that in the new framework research programme, support for creating a network of laboratories working in this field will be possible in the spirit of the resolution on rare diseases adopted in 1999 by the European Parliament and the Council.
However, in view of the constant advances being made in science and biotechnology, technical adaptations will have to be made in order to cover certain products specifically.
The Commission will be examining the question of whether and to what extent it is necessary to update and supplement existing Community legislation on the protection of private life.
This is a particularly important question which affects fundamental concepts while, at the same time, having numerous highly technical aspects.
As you know, the directive finally adopted by the Community in this field was adopted after ten years of intense debate, particularly in the European Parliament, and as yet it has been transposed into national legislation in only a certain number of Member States.
Against a background of very stiff international competition, this directive gives European researchers and industrialists an indispensable framework of common reference.
However, the decisions taken must be subject to constant scrutiny in the light of the progress made in acquiring knowledge, in the form of an open dialogue between researchers, lawyers, policy-makers and citizens.
This working party points out that the protection of genes by patent does not apply to those elements as they exist in their natural environment, but rather to molecules which have been isolated from the human body and are used in the context of a well-defined technical application.
In the same spirit, the working party points out that it is, in no way, the function and consequence of the patent to make its holder the 'owner' of the protected object, but to confer on the holder the exclusive right to use the product of his or her invention for a certain period of time.
In this spirit, and in order to prepare the Annual Report to the Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the European directive on the patentability of biotechnological inventions, the Commission is planning to set up a working party of scientific and legal experts who will be able to clarify some of the aspects involved.
At the same time, therefore, the Commission has also asked the European Ethics Group for its opinion on the specific question of the patentability of products resulting from this technology.
This opinion is expected to be given by the end of this year.
Basically, the questions raised are currently the subject of intense debate in Member States, here in the European Parliament and, I am glad to say, in the Council of Europe, with which the Commission is cooperating closely, and also at international level.
In my opinion, the position whereby the creation of human embryos is prohibited but the use, particularly for the production of stem cells, of already existing, so-called supernumerary embryos is authorised, subject to strictly controlled ethical conditions and within national law, achieves such a balance.
In a Europe whose citizens share the same fundamental values, but may have differences of opinion on certain subjects, it is specifically via the excellence of the European Parliament that the democratic confrontation between opinions should operate.
Therefore, the Commission cannot support Amendment Nos 1, 2 and 3.
It is important that there should be as wide a consensus on this subject as possible and I should therefore like to propose that the report be referred back to the Budgetary Committee.
Madam President, following the result of the vote there are certain inconsistencies, but they are minor.
According to the Spanish version, the proposed oral amendment only changes three words: in the first line, where it says 'the Community will establish a legal basis for future contributions' , it should say, 'the Commission should propose a legal basis for future contributions' , and so on until the end.
According to the Spanish version, no greater modifications are necessary, but the problem is that the compromise text we negotiated with the Council was in English and in that version it would be necessary to make two modifications: in the first line, it would be the same modification which I mentioned for the Spanish, that is: 'The Commission should propose' , instead of 'The Community will establish' , and in the last line it should say 'on the three communicable diseases, including any further contributions to the Global Fund' .
Thank you, Mr Fernández Martín.
on the Commission proposal for a Council framework decision on combating terrorism [COM(2001) 521 - C5-0452/2001 - 2001/0217(CNS)] 2.
Calls on the Council to do its utmost to implement the mandate from the European Council of 21 September and 19 October to unanimously adopt this proposal.
We are going to try to make it clear through our explanations of vote that the recourse to Article 40 is just a way of saying that those who do not wish to be involved in the commitment made by the Council on 21 September and 19 October are going to be isolated.
Of course, Mrs Terrón i Cusí.
We propose inserting the words 'and the Copenhagen criteria' after the words 'Helsinki European Council' . (The President declared that there was no opposition to voting on the oral amendment) Regarding Paragraph 20 Mr President, my apologies, but in this case it is current events that require us to submit an oral amendment.
Regarding Amendment No 2 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteurs we propose that the words 'concluding summit in December 2003' be deleted and replaced by 'opening summit' .
At the same time, the shortened paragraph is to be inserted before item 16, immediately after the heading 'Autonomous regulatory authorities' .
On behalf of my group, and I believe on behalf of the whole House, I would like to express my condolences and sympathy in relation to this latest victim of the fight against terrorism in Europe.
Thank you very much, Mr Barón Crespo.
I simply wish to say that we, in this House, have known for a long time that terrorism recognises no borders.
Thank you, Mr Bayrou.
The oral amendment is as follows: 'believes that the setting-up of such a forum ...' , and the text then goes on in the manner with which everyone is familiar. (The President declared that there was no opposition to voting on the oral amendments) (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Madam President, I have discovered, from the social briefing, that the Chilean police have stormed offices belonging to the Chilean Communist Party, arresting several workers and wounding the Secretary-General herself.
This has taken place a few days before the elections, which will be held on 16 December, and, according to the social briefing, the Chilean government itself has been shocked by this event.
The EC Treaty provides that the Commission shall present the Parliament with all necessary information on request.
Bouwman report (A5-0348/2001) . (FR) The text that we have just been considering is intended to revise a 1980 directive guaranteeing the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer and particularly the payment of salaries that have not been paid for a minimum of three months.
Nevertheless, we cannot accept the surfeit of amendments that the European Parliament has accepted, which has led, with the best intentions in the world, to a huge increase in the detailed requirements imposed on all Member States.
It is probably worthwhile considering all the cases of labour relations that are likely to tie an individual to a company, to enumerate every type of salary, allowance or related payment or to list all cases of formal or informal insolvency, but we feel that these provisions must be referred to the legislation of the Member States.
UK Conservative MEPs are sympathetic to the thrust of the Bouwman Report but have voted against Amendment Nos 13 and 14, as well as some other amendments.
These amendments go well beyond the Commission's original objectives in bringing forward this proposal, and there are no grounds for suggesting that the levels of protection in the original Directive are inadequate.
The problem, however, and concern about this is expressed in the justification for an amendment, is that the events "of 11 September in the United States have proven that the liberalisation of airport services (...) made the strict implementation of security measures more difficult" .
A typical example is the new law on air traffic safety signed by President Bush on 19 November, requiring foreign airlines to submit full details of passengers bound for the USA to the relevant American authorities directly.
At the same time, they warn that, if they fail to comply, as of Thursday 29 November, passengers arriving on these airlines will undergo exceptionally stringent checks by the American authorities and their luggage will be searched thoroughly, all of which may take several hours.
Pointless and wasteful competition must be replaced by cooperation and decision making on a basic network of connections to other continents and, if necessary, also to peripheral areas within Europe.
Theato report (A5-0390/2001) Madam President, as you know, I am the representative of the Pensioners' Party and I got to this Parliament on the votes of Italian pensioners.
Turning to the Watson report, we all agree on the need for cooperation and coordination in combating terrorism.
However, I would like to speak with particular reference to the European arrest warrant.
As well as overturning the civil rights protections which have been built up by precedent and, particularly in Britain and Ireland, under the common law system, it takes no account of the different legal systems within the Member States.
Finally, if this law or proposal was brought into any Member State or non-member country, Parliament would be the first to object and complain.
Yet when a EU Member State re-introduces internment without trial and abolishes the right to judicial review, we remain silent and condone the kind of treatment that undermines civil liberties and totally ignores the European Convention on Human Rights.
I hope that the rapporteur, Commission and Council will take note of the fact that they were at least 70 votes short of a qualified majority for second reading. . (FR) We are, of course, in favour of improving the quality of petrol and diesel fuels in order to protect the environment.
Today, the imprisonment of 52 Egyptians for homosexuality should be the time radically to re-think our relations both with Egypt and also with other countries with totalitarian tendencies.
What is now a matter of urgency for us is to demand of President Mubarak and his government that they free these 52 detainees immediately and unconditionally.
I have voted in favour of this report because it strongly emphasises this requirement.
Watson report (A5-0397/2001) Madam President, I personally voted for the Watson report introducing the European arrest warrant, although I am very concerned at the fact that this report allows those prosecutors that are entitled to use the arrest warrant to do so even for crimes punishable by four months' imprisonment.
Currently, there are not even liaison offices between the various bodies.
We recently had a glaring example, with serious consequences, of this lack of liaison in communication, intelligence and information activities between the bodies operating in the countries of Europe.
However, the European arrest warrant, especially in the hasty and thoughtless manner in which it is being pushed forward: a) reflects pressure from the USA rather than the maturity of endogenous procedures in the European Union; b) is being extended to a broad range of offences unconnected with terrorism, rather than being confined to the urgent challenges caused by terrorism; c) is being imposed arbitrarily, rather than through consultation with civil society; d) suffocates and restricts the area of justice of the Member States.
It is perfectly clear that the horrendous events of 11 September have been used as a pretext to speed up the application of political decisions taken a long time ago.
The cotton farmers reduced to desperation by union policy who have taken to the national roads in their tractors are in danger of being classified as terrorists and thrown into prison for at least 5 to 10 years.
The framework decision on the European arrest warrant, the legality of which is open to question, undermines the sovereign rights of the Member States and contradicts Articles 5 (2), 6 and 7 of the Greek constitution.
Indeed, these are old federalist projects which are being dusted off under the pretext of the attacks of 11 September but which, in reality, do not contribute any particularly crucial practical element to the fight against terrorism.
The proposed text therefore satisfies the federalists' obsession with standardisation but is not going to change very much on the ground.
The same applies to the second proposal, relating to the European arrest warrant.
The European arrest warrant might be faster, but it is not even reliable, because precautions have to be taken all the same.
The procedure should be still more restrictive when the executing Member State is asked to hand over one of its own nationals to another country.
Since terrorism is invariably cross-border in nature, the European countries will need to join forces.
However, the European arrest warrant goes too far in one area.
That is why I have supported the amendments tabled by fellow MEPs Niall Andrews and Brian Crowley.
One should not forget that Member State criminal law largely reflects their national culture.
Likewise, harmonisation and the introduction of a common definition of terrorism will be at odds with the very different political realities in the Member States. 3.
Because it is a principle that can all too easily lead to false information being given or to serious crimes going unpunished, we oppose introducing the option of reduced penalties for anonymous cooperation in the work of detection. 4.
An attempt is being made to force through the proposals before us at high speed and under pressure of the events of 11 September.
However, the proposals are not concerned with the type of events that are already prohibited and in relation to which legal proceedings can be taken in all the Member States.
Instead, the proposals are concerned with so-called European terrorism which, in terms of the very loose definition contained in the proposals, can cover everything from ETA's killing of civilians to actions and statements by individuals and legal political organisations.
Europe must cooperate more effectively in the fight against terrorism, both within its borders and internationally.
The terrible events of 11 September have made the reality of this situation painfully clear and have shown how crucial it is that we find an effective response to this scourge; it is, therefore, of vital importance that our Member States have effective criminal legislation to combat terrorism and that measures are adopted with a view to improving police and judicial cooperation, and cooperation at international level.
The first of these initiatives proposes the adoption of a common definition of terrorist acts and a definition of levels of sanctions and penalties - which must be effective, proportionate and act as a deterrent - which must, in all Member States, reflect the gravity of these acts.
Adopting these proposals will, therefore, provide unequivocal evidence of the Member States' willingness to improve cooperation, at all levels, in the fight against terrorism.
On the pretext of fighting against terrorism, the European Commission is going ahead with proposals that it has already been working on, led by Commissioner Vitorino, who, far exceeding the necessary cooperation between States, is seeking to go ahead with the supranationalisation of fundamental aspects of justice.
This failure to mention State terrorism, even in its general considerations, is most regrettable.
The European Parliament has closed its eyes.
Insofar as we can make out from the little information that is available to us from the Council of Ministers, the latter is already discussing a positive list, and this list appears to contain no less than 27 broadly-defined euro crimes so far.
I fully support the measures against terrorism and in my view, it is possible and necessary for the EU Member States to work closely together in this field.
The European arrest warrant can make a major contribution towards the efficiency of the fight against terrorism within European territory.
However, this amendment has been vetoed by the Socialists in the working party.
I have also voted against the report because the Council is expected to adopt a different draft.
Politicians who see the risk of terrorism in anything and everything, run the risk of ending up in a police state which lacks essential rights of freedom and democracy.
Both amendments call upon the Council to apply Article 40 of the Treaty on European Union in cases where unanimity cannot be reached, or in cases when unanimity involves a substantial weakening of the proposal.
In fact, calling upon the Council to vote under Article 40 is to be considered a last resort.
Indeed, the events of 11 September have forced us to take prompt action.
That is why, despite our objections to a negative list, we will not vote against the proposal, but will abstain instead, in anticipation of the European Commission and the Council producing a concrete positive list by the end of the year, which will give the European arrest warrant in 2001 a tangible dimension.
They support the efforts by the European Parliament to help develop the legislative framework in the fight against terrorism.
The Member State will have to comply with its recommendations; if it does not, it must specifically justify its refusal.
Eurojust will be assisted in carrying out its virtuous remit by four different databases containing sensitive personal data: the criminal records kept by each Member State on their citizens, the Schengen Information System, the European judicial network and Europol's files.
We must not delude ourselves that the objective of this whole legal arsenal is, primarily, to stamp out common crime.
National criminal law is closely linked to the national sovereignty of the Member States and must be embedded in a democratic legal system with sufficient scope for supervision.
I voted for this proposal because it forms part of a coherent set of measures that can and must contribute to Europe being able to cooperate more efficiently in the fight against terrorism, both within its borders and internationally.
The purpose of the proposal on Eurojust is to effectively improve cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Member States, whilst ensuring that fundamental rights are safeguarded, because the fight against terrorism, and against other forms of crime, can only be effective through improved cooperation between judicial authorities and police forces, with particular emphasis on the role to be played by Europol.
It is, therefore, important to promote this judicial cooperation, and the exchange of information between Member States.
In order to do this, a new strategy must be adopted, one that consists of coordinating all our efforts in the aim of combating and preventing crime throughout the territory of the Member States.
Färm report (A5-0385/2001) . (NL) I have noticed that recent events have initially borne out what I predicted on 15 March and 3 May.
A proportion of the Macedonian population and of the Macedonian government dreamed of a Macedonia without Albanians, or only with completely unrecognisable and adapted residents of Albanian origin.
Hopefully, the change in the Constitution will put an end to the idea that within the borders of that country, there is only room for one language and one nation, and that all problems would be solved if the large Albanian minority were ignored, or even driven away.
Kosovo has been cut off from the outside world by violence, and the large majority of the population wishes to keep it that way.
Its boundaries were even completely wiped off the map by the provincial reorganisations of the old Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929, the division into a Serbian and Croatian region following the 'Sporazum' Treaty in 1939 and the annexation to the nazi-satellite state Croatia in 1941.
Some time in the future, Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Montenegro would fuse into one big Serbo-Croat federal state, adopting the same dominating position within the federal Yugoslavia as Russia within the Soviet Union.
Lagendijk report (A5-0386/2001) and Färm reports (A5-0385, 0410, 0411/2001) We voted against these reports, which are nothing more than a financial statement of the policy of the major Imperialist powers in this area of the world.
I am not happy with the document on the future of the European Union with regard to the Laeken Council, Madam President, even though I voted for it, because it does not say that the European Union should, in future, have the competence to legislate on European pension systems.
All 15 Member States, plus the other 12 that have applied to join the European Union, have pension systems in deficit.
Furthermore, Parliament is harming its own interests by favouring the parliamentary experience of the future Chair of the Convention over an executive body, whereas the Commission, and Commissioner Barnier in particular, rightly reiterate at every opportunity that the confidence of governments in the Chair of the Convention will be a determining factor in the Convention' s hoped-for success.
In order to issue its opinion on the preparation of the next Intergovernmental Conference, the European Parliament has recently adopted a very strange resolution.
The European Parliament would have done better to closely examine the analysis of Declaration 23 of the Nice European Council, which includes as an objective not a European Constitution but the improvement of the 'democratic legitimacy and transparency of the Union' , which, in our view, seems very different, even the opposite.
For the workers of the European Union, the results are tens of thousands of redundancies at Moulinex, Sabena, AOM, Danone, in companies involved in IT and in your intended new economy, in which there is more redundancy than recruitment.
We have voted against it.
This report falls in line with the strategy of those who are relying on the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference to provide a further qualitative and meaningful leap in the federalist integration of the EU, under the control of the great powers which will, out of necessity, undermine the sovereignty of countries such as Portugal.
I would like to highlight the fact that I voted against Paragraph 4(d) which calls for "The removal of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure".
I deeply regret that 430 Members of the House voted against this fundamental policy of the CAP, as I outlined earlier.
The European Union has been a bulwark against recession in the past.
We therefore need greater, more widespread and more proactive reaction on the part of our workers and society in general in order to put a halt to this policy and bring about a radical change of direction.
However, the results of this method have been tested in practice and proved that broader involvement did not help to consolidate or widen individual and social rights in line with modern-day requirements; on the contrary, these rights were curtailed in line with the dictat of big business, giving rise to serious grass-roots reaction.
If these take part in decisions which contravene the wishes of their national parliaments, they can always blame the other Member States for the choices made.
When the vote was taken in plenum on the Méndez de Vigo/Seguro Report on the Treaty of Nice and the future of the Union on 31 May 2001, an official corrigendum to the protocol had to be submitted with the correct text 'constitutional treaty' .
The same problem arose in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when voting on the Leinen/Méndez de Vigo Report on the Laeken European Council and the future of the European Union on 22 October 2001 in Strasbourg because of differences between the voting documents - the compromise amendments were only available in English and French - and despite my intervention it was not subsequently resolved by a linguistic correction.
But perhaps that was deliberate and intended to cloud the issue.
The inconsistency lies in the principle which, according to the White Paper (title IV, page 37), inspired the authors: "to integrate the peoples of Europe through scrupulous respect for national identities".
This is as contradictory as the 'federation of nation-States' of Jacques Delors, of whom the principal author of the White Paper is a close associate.
Finally, as I said on 4 September, the White Paper seems to believe that 'governance' can function while disregarding representative democracy.
The Kaufmann report, voted for by our House, vigorously corrects this fallacy, and we are pleased about that, but it fails to point out that representative democracy is, in turn, disturbed, even distorted, if national democracy is not at centre stage. - (DA) The June Movement and the People' s Movement Against the EU have abstained from voting on the Kaufmann report.
Bösch report (A5-0393/2001) Madam President, I voted for the Bösch report on the protection of the Community' s financial interests and the fight against fraud.
Since, in the European Union, in administering the money of Europe, so much money goes missing - I am sad to say that EUR 2 028 million was lost through fraud in 2000 - those who suffer most are surely the vulnerable people of the European Union.
The British Conservatives, who form the European Democratic wing of the PPE-DE Group, voted against the Bösch report in total because, yet again, there is mention of the European public prosecutor and explicit comments to confer more extensive powers on it when set up, thus leading to Corpus Juris.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group can only be delighted at the good results achieved by OLAF during 2000 and, moreover, hopes that such actions can bear even more fruit in the coming years.
In particular, we very strongly oppose the inclusion in the resolution of Paragraphs 32 and 35, which constitute unacceptable interference in the domestic affairs of one of the Member States.
Indeed, 'points to recent changes in the law in Italy' - Paragraph 32 - and 'calls on the Italian government to stop blocking leave of absence for Italian public prosecutors to take up executive functions with OLAF' - Paragraph 35 - are in both form and substance unacceptable criticisms of the exercise of sovereign powers by a Member State, performed in full compliance with all democratic rules.
We therefore strongly deplore the inclusion of the two paragraphs in the resolution, for that sets a dangerous precedent in the relations between the European Parliament and the Member States; these relations must always be characterised by mutual respect for the other' s positions, even when the positions differ.
Agreement with Egypt (B5-0740/2001) . (NL) Egypt is a country that is very parsimonious when it comes to guaranteeing the protection of human rights.
The arrest and imprisonment of 52 homosexual men on account of their sexual orientation is once again a poignant example of this.
Fiori report (A5-0391/2001) Madam President, I voted against Mr Fiori' s report.
Mr President, the surprising result of the vote on the Fiori report can be interpreted in various ways.
Our basic premise is the conviction that the embryo that is created is human life from conception onwards and that any intervention on the embryo means its death.
There are alternatives for research which are ethically acceptable as well as scientifically valid, such as research on stem cells, which are also present in the individual after birth.
A majority of this House, duped by an unholy alliance of socialists and liberals, has distorted a report, so that nearly all of us ended up having to vote against it in order to leave that outstanding product of the Committee on Human Genetics, the original text of the Fiori Report, standing as a beacon of Europe's protection of life.
We are therefore opposed to this distorted text, and in the end, following a last minute u-turn, the European Parliament rejected it, to our great satisfaction.
It is interesting to ask ourselves what conclusions should be drawn from this, particularly with regard to the vote at our last part-session on Article 3 of the research framework programme 2002-2006, presented by means of the Caudron report, which was to decide the conditions under which the European Union would subsidise genetic research.
That same amendment, which was introduced today into the Fiori report in order to distort it, has in the end also been broadly rejected by this House.
With regard to patents, not only are we completely against any idea of patenting living beings, but we are against the equally horrendous patents on medical products which cannot be used for the care of millions of human beings too poor to pay.
It is, however, necessary, as we cannot allow there to be a legal vacuum on this subject in the European Union if we want to stay competitive in international research, which we certainly will not if we do not give legal protection to inventions in the field of biotechnology and freedom to research.
Decisions of this nature are largely a matter for Member States and the European Parliament must respect subsidiarity.
The UK, for example, has quite rightly conducted its own debate on stem cell research and come to the conclusion that a tightly regulated research programme can eventually bring benefits to sufferers of highly disabling and painful conditions.
The UK has successfully transposed the patenting directive, as all Member States should have done, and the distinction between inventions and discoveries is quite clearly understood.
The lack of a European Parliament opinion is all the more harmful given that we are at a point where certain Member States are going to have to transpose the directive on the patentability of living matter into their national legislation, thereby modifying their legislation in this field.
I wanted to offer my support for research freedom, particularly for genetic research, into surplus embryonic stem cells, and although this type of research involves uncertainties and risks, it is very important that there be Community regulation and funding so that private research does not have a monopoly in this field. - (SV) Mr Fiori' s report adopts positions on many difficult issues regarding human genetics, including the ethical principles which ought to apply in this area.
The dividing lines running through this Parliament were clearly illustrated by the vote on the Fiori report.
There is a liberal-libertarian line which exploits the flag for research freedom and claims that there is a so-called need not to be left behind by the United States and calls for European Union funding of research into embryonic stem cells and surplus cells, thereby opening the floodgates to the reification and the marketing of emerging human life, at an extreme stage of its embryonic fragility, to the development of actual embryo farms, where human embryos would be created for the sole purpose of killing them and cultivating their cells.
The so-called compromise approach seems particularly hypocritical and is simply an indirect means of authorising therapeutic cloning.
Philosophy and history teach us that any compromise of the respect for the human being leads inescapably to its negation.
Finally, it is through political courage and a clear vision of what gives the human being its dignity and greatness, that it remains possible to maintain a civilisation and a form of progress which are truly human.
