Eleven languages make 110 combinations.
Twenty-two languages make 462 combinations.
Indeed our next President will not have much time to travel around.
Let us corner the commissioner when he or she states that the Commission can accept Amendment No 3 and rejects Amendments Nos 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
He deserves our full support.
I have listened and I have learned that there is an appetite for change, that there is a great feeling in this House that we need to do more politics in the best and visionary sense of that word.
I am not seeking, Mr Bonde or other colleagues who share your fears, to be the sixteenth president or prime minister of the sixteenth state.
I am proud to be a parliamentarian and we must bring our parliamentary and democratic vision to bear on the great issues of the day in Europe.
I want to say to Hans-Gert Poettering and to the PPE-DE Group how greatly I appreciate his and their unswerving commitment to be full and faithful partners to an agreement which we made.
She led the fight against terrorism long before 11 September.
I have been a Member of this Parliament for 17 years.
I have had the honour of being its Vice-President for 12 of them.
As rapporteur on the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties, I negotiated with heads of government to secure codecision for this Parliament.
As Vice-President of Parliament I have sought to modernise and improve our working methods.
I have fought for what I believe to be right, and I have done that, sometimes, against the interests of my own political group and sometimes even against the interests of my own country.
Reform will only be possible if the President has the support of all Members across the whole House.
Let us now discuss pluralism and equality.
I remember when I had the honour of chairing our vote on an important issue for my group, which was that of GMOs.
Voting was suspended because of a formal sitting and, when it resumed, there were not enough Members to pass the legendary milestone of 314 votes.
And I would like to congratulate the person who enabled us to carry out all these reforms and many others.
In conclusion, I will say that I found the campaign an incredibly valuable experience and I believe that the whole House found this as well.
In spite of my terrible accent, I hope that you will understand what I say as I mean it sincerely - obrigado, gracias, grazie, tack, åõ÷áñéóôþ, thank you, dank u wel, danke, tak, kiitos, and merci!
Votes cast: 583.
Absolute majority: 292.
Mr President, as agreed with my group and in line with the approach that I outlined before the first ballot, I am withdrawing my candidacy and I urge all the Members who voted for me, whom I would like to thank, to now vote for Mr David Martin.
The deadline for submitting nominations for the second round of voting is 12.15 p.m.
We shall therefore proceed to a second vote.
Votes cast: 579.
Absolute majority: 290.
I declare the vote open. (The Members rose to vote) I declare the vote closed.
Votes cast: 568.
Absolute majority: 285.
Colleagues, today has been a good day for parliamentary democracy in the European Parliament.
I thank my colleagues in the ELDR Group.
I feel very proud that this is the first time in more than two decades that a representative of this group that has played an important part in the democratic life of this House.
I say to my Liberal colleagues that this is a very bitter-sweet moment: sweet, as you may imagine for all those reasons and bitter-sweet because I have always done my politics week in, week out, day in, day out, in the bosom of that group.
I thank all those who voted for me.
In acknowledging all those who voted for other candidates, now that the matter is settled I hope we can develop a genuine stakeholder presidency committed to building in this Parliament and in the Union a Union and a Parliament fit for Europe's future. (FR) On my own behalf and on behalf of all Members, I would like to pay a very sincere tribute to Mrs Nicole Fontaine, (Applause)...
We took that very seriously, which is to say, more politics, yes, but I did not expect that we would have three ballots.
I come from the western seaboard of Europe, from the edge of our European world, and I have a deep pride about where I come from.
You have found at the heart of European democracy the capacity to take someone from one of the smallest groups and smallest states and say that, in contemporary European democracy, there is a place to include all, including those on the geographic or other margins.
It is an official but not a working language of the European Union.
We are therefore in our public purpose an indispensable tool to an enriched European future.
I have chosen this moment to say a few words.
If we wish to become a communicating Parliament, we must find our space, we must find our time, we must get our message across, have our story, tell our story, sell our story.
I want to work with you on committees; I want to work with you in the Conference of Presidents and in the Bureau to achieve together our full potential.
Thank you for bestowing on me today the honour to do so. (Applause) Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, 15 January 2002 is an important day in the history of the European Parliament.
I shall say something about the candidates in a moment, but I would ask the other groups to understand when I say that there have been many who doubted that it was possible to elect an MEP from a small country or the chairman of one of the smaller groups as President of the European Parliament.
I should like to say to you, Mr President, and to everyone else too, that I am very grateful for the fact that the opportunity was given - and to our own group, too - to raise the profile of our European culture, and for the fact that a small political group and a small country also have the chance to take over one of the most important tasks in the European Union. (Applause) Europe would be a poor continent if the practice were only to give the responsible positions to people from the 'larger' countries.
I should like briefly to acknowledge your fellow candidates, Mr Onesta, Mr Wurtz, Mr Bonde and, in particular too, Mr Martin.
Perhaps even more importantly I would like to thank those who did not vote for me.
I reckon I have spoken to between 300 and 400 Members.
But your presidency will not be indifferent, because you are a dedicated European.
You immediately made reference to the flag hanging opposite us and behind you, Mr President, and it is true that this flag unites us in spite of our differences.
Mr President, on behalf of my group and on my own behalf, I would like to sincerely congratulate you on your election.
Mr President, in any election held by secret ballot in an Assembly, there is always an element of risk and there is always an aura of suspense.
When you were elected, the first thing you said was that you were President of the whole House, that you were President of all Members, of those who voted for you, and of those who had not.
The promises that you are making, Mr President, given your Irish nature, must not be directed to any one Member of this House.
I know that, when a person belongs to a minority group - you belonged to a minority group for a long time, yourself - he gets used to offering advice to all and sundry.
However, Mr Cox, there is a moral challenge before you, and that challenge is to free yourself from the enormous power of those who supported and voted for you.
We will do the utmost to cooperate with you and to make sure that your dreams, our dreams, will come true.
May I thank the 76 colleagues who lent me their votes in the second round to support the fair chair platform.
The final debate before the vote today was the result of a common initiative from the five candidates.
The election campaign made you aware of the problems we need to solve.
I wish you 30 months of hard work for the equal benefit of all of us.
Winston Churchill once said that democracy can be inconvenient, but it is the best system we know.
We have now conducted our parliamentary business but we are joined also by colleagues from the European Commission, whose presence I acknowledge with gratitude because this is an important moment in our democratic life in Parliament.
We are often told that the composition of Parliament does not accurately reflect our societies, our schools or even our football grounds.
I can therefore only hope that I will have just one opportunity before the end of this Parliamentary term to express myself in my capacity as a Member of Parliament in my mother tongue, for that is what we mean by diversity and is also a way of giving each person recognition, for, despite all our differences, we have a future to build together.
We now must elect the Vice-Presidents of Parliament.
I have received the following candidates: Cederschiöld, Colom i Naval, Dimitrakopoulos, Friedrich, Imbeni, Lalumière, David Martin, ... (Loud applause) ...
As we are voting only to decide on precedence, no qualified majority is necessary.
The ballot papers to establish this order of precedence will now be distributed.
It is my information, Mr Friedrich, that you may put your mark against any number of candidates, as large or as small as you wish that to be.
