&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 1 June 2006. &#160;&#160; Following the Presidency-in-Office of the Council’s request to the Conference of Presidents, the latter decided, at its meeting on 8&#160;June, to organise a plenary sitting.
I find it regrettable, to say the least, that account has not been taken of this situation, because 78 is more than 10% of the Members of this House. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;Martínez.
The alternative would have been to schedule a Conference of Presidents open to all Members.
Parliament should attend to such a major issue with great seriousness, in order, later on, to be able to welcome both of these countries into our midst in the appropriate manner.
I would therefore like to ask you to delete this item from the agenda. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am very surprised at the accusation that Mr&#160;Brok has laid at our door.
We cannot just renounce a right that we have earned through struggle.
I am very surprised at this change.
However, we stand by our opinion that there should be a resolution.
In any case, we believe that it certainly does make sense to state our opinion before a session of the Council, our opinion being that we are endeavouring to do everything we can to ensure that accession takes place on 1&#160;January 2007. (1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance, which, as always, exceed the time available.
As you know, I shall give priority to those Members who have not spoken during the last two sittings. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week some families were massacred as they picnicked on a beach in Gaza.
The European Union, the United Nations, human rights groups around the world, have demanded that Guantánamo be closed.
I urge that everything the Union can do to bring pressure on President Bush be done to ensure that the camp is closed, so that people can be given proper trials if there are legitimate charges against them. &#160;&#160; – Allow me to take this opportunity to express my profound concern over the efforts of the new Dutch political party, the Charity, Freedom and Diversity Party, which aims as part of its programme to legalise zoophilia and paedophilia.
I would like to join the majority of the Dutch public in their criticism of this initiative and to call on the Dutch Government, European Parliament and other relevant European institutions, including Interpol, to take the measures necessary to thwart criminal activities such as these which target children and teenagers.
These disgusting, perverted and criminal plans, which far exceed what is natural and dignified, or even the slightest suggestion that they might be implemented, must not be tolerated and must be unequivocally criminalised.
The human rights that we so often refer to in other circumstances are being seriously jeopardised by this type of child abuse. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to draw your attention and the attention of this House to the very worrying news that is reaching us from Iran, particularly concerning the suppression of a demonstration by women activists who have joined forces to demand recognition of their basic rights, among many other things.
These rights include the elimination of polygamy, equal rights in divorce cases, equal rights for women called to testify in a court of law and, lastly, the granting of temporary employment contracts, which currently offer very unfavourable conditions for women.
I therefore hope that you, Mr&#160;President, and this Parliament will not wish to leave these women on their own just when they are demonstrating to gain recognition for rights that are considered completely normal in any other part of the world. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, today we are debating whether or not the first chapter with Turkey will be closed.
I wonder how it will be possible to avoid a crisis between the European Union and Ankara, which is obviously determined to continue its unflinching policy.
In other words, it is demonstrating an unacceptable stand in its foreign policy, given that, on the one hand, it is talking with the European Union and, on the other hand, it is bringing down the fighter planes of a Member State, with the result that we are mourning the dead.
The crime in question had to be recognised as such and a proper legal system had to be recognised in the country requesting extradition.
The British Government should refuse to allow Mr&#160;Cubin and his colleagues to be extradited until proper evidence has been produced and it is satisfied there will be a fair hearing. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Poland is one of the EU’s main producers of frozen strawberries.
The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of May 2005 on simplifying the common market organisation for fruit and vegetables mentioned among other things the advisability of fast-track procedures for fruit.
Bureaucratic processes may be all very well in situations of stable production, but not in a competitive global market, where important decisions often need to be taken quickly. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, 14&#160;June this week is the 65th anniversary of a brutal criminal act and the most unimaginable violation of human rights in Europe.
Floods such as these have become extremely common over the past few years – flash floods caused by heavy rain in a&#160;particular area.
Today, our most important task is to guarantee that events like those that took place sixty years ago will never happen again.
The most important result is peace between European Union Member States, which forms the basis of all further results. &#160;&#160; Forced prostitution is a serious problem for Europe.
Although the article recognised the violence and criminality of the environment surrounding prostitution, it made allegations about which I would like to hear a clear response from Commissioner Frattini, German Minister of Justice Zypries and Europol.
I encourage Commissioner Frattini to treat with the utmost seriousness the promise he made last Thursday – to ensure that a thorough overview of forced prostitution during the Football World Cup is prepared.
I therefore await precise information and if necessary the refuting of baseless claims. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a month ago I attended a three-nation meeting on the subject of the waters of the River Evros.
With pride I told them that the European Union is sensitive to environmental issues, unlike large countries such as the USA, China, India and so on.
A Turkish parliamentarian took the floor and pointed out that the Danube is the main cause of the contamination of the Black Sea, together with other rivers that empty into it.
Why, however, have the measures programmed since 2000 been of limited success?
The policies of the Member States do not converge in promoting quality education.
For the rest it is a utopia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the energy conflict between Ukraine and Russia at the beginning of this year, we began discussions on a common EU energy policy.
The three most important bulwarks of the future policy have been named: a common energy market, diversification of energy resources and climate change policy.
A common energy market will guarantee the security of energy supply, competitive prices and accessibility for consumers.
I would note that in this House there are a number of Members who have been saying right from the start, or in other words for two years, that these referendums should be held on the same day.
The aim of these inspections is to ascertain the implementation of competition principles on the European gas and energy market.
There are two main reasons for publishing the results of the inspections as soon as possible.
Secondly, in parallel with the action taken by the Commission, a debate was started here in Parliament about the possible creation of a single European energy policy, and the findings of the inspections seem to be indispensable to this work.
The Commission claims that the wolf is not protected effectively enough in Finland, even though the number of wolves has almost trebled in 10 years.
At the start of the year, Finland announced a wolf management plan, but the case continues.
The European Union is more unpopular than ever in Finland and news like this tends to lay the subject of integration open to ridicule.
I would like to thank all fellow Members who supported these initiatives and measures.
In particular, I would like to support his proposal that you, Mr President, invite the Polish President Lech Kaczyński to this House to tell us about his vision of the European Union and about respect for European values in Poland. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the current round of WTO negotiations is witnessing a steady erosion of the EU policy that has always been committed to ensuring food security for EU citizens.
We need to ensure food security for EU citizens and we need the assurance of quality and traceability of imports, consistent with the standards required of EU producers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, two weeks ago, the police in Sweden carried out a fifty-man raid in order to shut down a website that facilitated file-sharing.
It is therefore regrettable if the police are assisting in stifling the debate. &#160;&#160; – Following reports of illegal acts carried out against Portuguese workers in several European Union Member States, I went with other Members of the European Parliament to Arendonk in Belgium, near the Dutch border, on 4&#160;June, to a meeting with Portuguese people working in those two countries.
They told us about a number of problems and cases of discrimination, specifically by agencies providing temporary and seasonal work, especially in the flower greenhouses in the Netherlands and in farming, including strawberry-picking, in Belgium.
I ask you, Mr&#160;President, once again to call on the Commission and the governments of the two Member States to provide the necessary checks and controls to guarantee equal rights and compliance with legislation, particularly the directives on worker information and registration, and to fight any kind of discrimination, such as that which continues to occur against Portuguese workers in several European Union Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a recent meeting with the President, Mr&#160;Borrell Fontelles, and the Secretary General, Mr&#160;Priestley, we agreed, as did many in this House, that elimination of the obstacles and prejudices which result in the exclusion of and discrimination against people with disabilities is being achieved by managing dissimilarities.
In 2003, an accessibility control was carried out at the European Parliament.
We also need to support the European Parliament in its efforts to comply with its obligations as an employer under the principle of equal opportunities.
Mr President, I should like to ask you bring this matter to the attention of the Commission, and request that before the summer recess a statement be made in relation to the implementation of forest fire prevention measures in the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to bring to the attention of the House that a second poultry processing industry has closed down in my constituency in the last two weeks, with the loss of 300 to 400 jobs.
That comes after a loss of 600 jobs in a small place like Northern Ireland.
Let us at least give our farmers, our producers, half a chance to solve this problem. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, huge deposits of gold, silver and copper are thought to exist beneath various glaciers on the border between Chile and Argentina.
I therefore call upon the Commission to give its attention to this problematic project and to submit proposals as to how its abandonment might be brought about. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the report of 7&#160;June by Dick Marty of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it says among other things that in Poland there were secret prisons in which alleged terrorists were held on the orders of the CIA.
The aim of basing these accusations on premises rather than evidence is to discredit Poland in the international arena.
Senator Marty spoke before Parliament’s Temporary Committee and yet the Committee’s draft report makes no mention of Poland, and its activity to date has not brought any new facts into the investigation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise to make a plea on behalf of one of my constituents in the Shetland Isles in Scotland, against the inhumane actions of the United Kingdom Government.
Sakchai Makow is a new Scot and a new Shetlander.
Sakchai is a new Scot and a new Shetlander.
A London-based minister should not be able to throw him out of the country just to look tough. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like, with the approval of the members of all political groups from my constituency, Wielkopolska, to remind you that this month is the 50th anniversary of the Poznan workers’ uprising against the totalitarian regime that ruled the country at that time.
This happened in June 1956.
At Member State level, the importance of the committee representing Parliament is not always recognised.
One of my recommendations would certainly be for greater attendance by Member State representatives when we are dealing with issues that are germane to them.
The cases in point are the so-called ‘Valencian Land Grab Law’ (LRAU), Ms&#160;Fourtou’s report, which we adopted in December 2005; and one of my reports on the confiscation of cars by the Greek authorities, which we adopted earlier this year.
Yes, we have brought about resolution in some of the cases with the Greek confiscation of the cars, but I have to say that, sadly, the situation in Valencia is still grave, and requires further monitoring.
I have tabled only one plenary amendment to the report, on behalf of the Socialist Group, which underlines that in principle the petitions process is aimed at European citizens and reinforces the view that in principle the petitions process should be a service that is targeted at EU citizens who do not have other means of recourse to action by the European Parliament.
I should also like to pay tribute to the Petitions Committee secretariat and their tireless support for the Members’ work and our work.
Your rapporteur is right to underline the importance of all the work represented by the thousand or more petitions you receive every year.
There is no doubt that the Committee on Petitions offers citizens an important conduit for their feedback on European acts and policies.
Each procedure has its own legal basis and its own specificity and I believe that each of our institutions does well to preserve that, while respecting the needs of the other.
The petitions procedure concerns the individual and their parliament.
The motion for a resolution argues that the Commission does not act with sufficient speed and vigour in some cases where a petition and an infringement procedure are running in parallel.
Let me just say one thing about that.
The petitions procedure and the infringement procedure have different and distinct objectives, functions and roles.
Instead, let each of us, the Commission and Parliament, aim to ensure that our respective procedures – petitions and infringements – are fit for their respective purposes and let us continue our fruitful cooperation and strengthen that as much as possible.
I shall refrain from commenting on some other details relating to processes and procedures.
The Commission is prepared to do as much as possible to improve our cooperation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I congratulate my honourable friend Mr&#160;Cashman on the report which he is presenting to the European Parliament, because the exercise of the right to petition by European citizens must be considered a basic means of strengthening awareness of European nationality.
The Commissioner presented in great detail the views of the European Commission for the part of the report which concerns the Commission.
It is true that European citizens use both charges to the Commission – as the Commission's 22nd report on the control of the application of Community law shows – and petitions to the European Parliament as a means of strengthening their wish to see Community law applied.
The strongest message was the rejection of the Constitution a year ago.
The message that citizens are sending is clear.
It is clear that various consultation exercises that have been undertaken at European level have had some effect: we are hearing the message now, but we should also listen.
In order to do that, more resources must be provided for the various bodies that have the most direct contact with citizens and, without excluding any other body, personally I would start with the Committee on Petitions.
As Mr Cashman’s report makes clear, the role of that committee is very significant in bringing citizens’ concerns and problems to the attention of European institutions.
I therefore particularly support paragraphs 20 to 23 of the report and I hope that there can be a debate in all the political groups, as well as in the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents, on how to reinforce our work to assist citizens.
Last week some of us were in Helsinki for meetings with the Finnish Justice Ministry.
As Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, as well as thanking the rapporteur I would like additionally to thank the Vice-Chairmen of our committee, as well as the very active members of the committee who are currently present in the Chamber, for their great efforts in carrying out their tasks.
Mr President, the work of our committee also reflects fundamental principles of the European Union such as democracy and freedom of speech.
I would like here in particular to underline what Mr&#160;Cashman said in points 18 and 22, and ask the European Commission to appoint a high-ranking official to work with us.
This is extremely important.
We work very well with the European Commission, of that there is no doubt, but it would be helpful to have a high-ranking official to collaborate with us and to observe our activities on a daily basis.
Another point which Mr&#160;Cashman mentioned in his report, and one which I would like to emphasise strongly, is that our committee is very important for the very reason that it works directly with ordinary citizens.
Brussels was far for them, too, but only geographically.
Their petition was among the first petitions received from new Member States.
However, the report tabled before us shows that the number of such petitions is very low, which leads to the conclusion that further efforts are required to inform citizens of new Member States.
Our aim is to ensure that the right of petition is embedded in European consciousness, both in old and new Member States.
The practice of the past eighteen months also indicates that there have been numerous petitions in the area of environmental protection, social security or even the internal market, which may be of assistance in perfecting certain European Union directives.
In the hope that this process will continue, I thank Mr&#160;Cashman for his work, and naturally, I support the adoption of the report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Cashman on his report and I support the recommendations that he is proposing in order to increase the efficiency of our Committee on Petitions.
The confidence of the citizens, not just in this House and in their representatives here, but in the European Union in general, often depends on the efficiency of that mechanism.
That is why I am calling upon the Members of this Parliament to take more interest in our Committee on Petitions, since it is theirs.
Since it has been mentioned, I shall tell you what the situation is: the Valencian Community is a model of ordered and coherent growth and a model of sustainable development, despite the negative image of a region destroying its territory that both the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero are trying to communicate to the institutions of the European Union and to Spanish society.
The Valencian Community has some of Europe’s most advanced legislation in the field of town planning and protection of the natural environment, and evidence of this is the fact that the Valencian Community has 19 natural parks, 31 municipal protected sites and 4 protected areas.
We must therefore remember that the Valencian Government of the People’s Party modernised the LRAU, approved by the Socialist Government in the Generalitat, thereby completing the Valencian town and land-planning legislation, in accordance with Community legislation and taking on board the recommendations of the European Parliament and the European Commission at all times. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the 'no' of the French and Dutch to the Constitutional Treaty, we are going though a period of confusion as to how we can bring Europe closer to its citizens.
For its citizens, Europe means the institutions, except that the institutions often give the impression that they are working a long way from the world.
If the Union is defending the rights of its citizens, this must be perceptible in their everyday life.
The right to petition is one of the most important tools in highlighting a social and people-orientated Europe.
The establishment of our committee and the European Ombudsman are steps which were made because we have recognised our imperfections and weaknesses.
We must make more use of these facilities for communication with the citizens.
Our rapporteur quite rightly calls for the Committee on Petitions to be strengthened both at the level of the secretariat and at the level of political staff.
Indeed, we must inform the citizens better of our existence and, in all events, the Commission and the Council or the Member States must stop fearing further cooperation with us.
In other words, it creates citizens who are gradually won over to the European idea, all those who are against transparency or who do not want Europe or who are eurosceptics.
I would like to raise three questions or concerns that have occurred to me as a result of the immense vivacity and liveliness of the debate in this Committee, which is fascinating.
I must say at once and with all due seriousness that I take these allegations, which are aimed at undermining my integrity and reputation, very seriously indeed.
I will defend my reputation and my integrity to the hilt.
May I say that we have taken a leaf from Finland’s book and I have proposed as part of the Internal Action Plan on Communication that we should start to produce a layman’s summary for every proposal brought forward by the Commission.
We should be able to explain in one page, in simple, accessible language what we want to do and what our proposals are.
We promise to work more intensively with the Ombudsman, the Committee on Petitions and the European Parliament in making sure that our procedures are improved where necessary.
I will end by saying that the Commission joins with you in admiring the work of the Committee on Petition’s secretariat.
I did not refer to you directly in my speech, Mr&#160;Cashman, but to my group’s disagreement with a part of your report’s explanatory statement.
I would emphasise that I am simply talking about the text that you have presented, in particular the report’s explanatory statement. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
Furthermore, I should like to emphasise three points.
Even if it is decriminalised, prostitution, whether forced or not, remains a crime against women and against humanity as a whole.
I invite all of you, Commissioners, representatives of the Council and Members of the European Parliament, to show a red card to all those who encourage forced prostitution by their silence, by failing to take action or by their direct or indirect involvement.
Women forced into prostitution will emerge victorious when Member States and the institutions of the European Union collaborate effectively with the Council of Europe.
Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of forced prostitution throws light on a fundamental issue that is close to my heart as a woman who stands up for women who are forced into prostitution, but also as the Chairman of the relevant Committee in this Parliament.
I hope that in the course of 2006 we can draw up a plan aimed, as some European women deputies have requested, at assessing the impact of demand for prostitution on the volume of people-trafficking for sexual purposes.
In the first place, I have supported – together with the Commission and Mr&#160;Barroso – all the information campaigns aimed at raising awareness of the grave danger of an increase in people-trafficking for sexual purposes in connection with the World Cup.
We received the results of a petition promoted by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, who were very successful in collecting many thousands of signatures.
Subsequently we contacted the German authorities, so as to obtain their support for prevention and information campaigns in Germany.
In particular, I had requested something further: that specific, positive information concerning prevention should be posted on the International Football Federation’s website.
It is a report published on 2&#160;June&#160;2006 which analyses the risk of increased people-trafficking for sexual purposes, with specific reference to the World Cup.
As you will know, we had also asked Europol to draw up a report on this issue.
I can tell you – without going into details, given the time pressures – that this document confirms the hypothesis that there is an increase in forced prostitution and trafficking in conjunction with the world football championships.
The German authorities, in particular the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the ministries of the , have responded to our requests.
We have been informed that gangs of traffickers have organised a network for trafficking young girls mainly from those countries on the eastern borders of the European Union.
In this connection I reaffirm that border checks must be made stricter.
In addition, instructions have been issued at our request concerning the need to protect victims of sexual exploitation, with a view to the application of the special assistance programmes.
This is a case of treating people not as illegal immigrants, but rather as victims of a modern form of slavery who must therefore be protected.
We have also given our support to setting up two multilingual telephone helplines, already operational, that have been entrusted to two German NGOs that are well-known in Germany.
We are aware of the problem caused by the lack of a single Europe-wide telephone number, but such a project would require the agreement of all the telephone companies in all Member States.
Furthermore, we have also supported, in cooperation with the German authorities, an information campaign sponsored by the German Women’s Council, which you know well.
We have decided together to organise a workshop, which will be run by the European Commission and the German authorities immediately after the World Cup; its remit will be to prepare a document covering all the positive and negative experiences of this period and to draw up a sort of manual to be used in all international sporting events.
I should also like to say a few words about the role of Europol and Eurojust.
As you will know, Europol has in recent weeks carried out some outstanding work.
It reported to the latest meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Interior, held last week in Luxembourg, and the director of Europol has confirmed that the cooperative network of police forces has derived considerable benefit from the encouragement given by Member States to national police forces.
In conclusion, I should like to report that we have forwarded a request, formulated in accordance with the Plan of Action, to the network of the EU Member States’ consulates in the countries of origin.
We shall prepare a report on this request by the end of 2006.
It was on 17&#160;January 2006 that we adopted Mrs&#160;Prets’ report on ‘Strategies to prevent the trafficking of women and children who are vulnerable to sexual exploitation’; in March 2006 we adopted an oral question with a resolution on forced prostitution during international sporting events, and furthermore, on 8&#160;March of this year, we organised the ‘red card to forced prostitution’ campaign in this House.
All these projects contain very practical proposals for combating forced prostitution.
At the moment the football World Cup is taking place in Germany.
We know that during such events there is a spectacular increase in the demand for sexual services, and that before and during them there is an increase in the incidence of criminal activities such as human trafficking and forced prostitution.
As early as March I asked, in this House, that, on the one hand, information be provided on the ground, in the countries from which most women are taken, with, on the other, in the country in which the event takes place, good information and public relations work, raising awareness among potential clients, a 24-hour multilingual telephone hotline and the guarantee that those who call it will subsequently be offered care and support by the police, emergency services and women’s refuges.
Today we need to ask – and I want to thank Mrs&#160;Záborská for having formulated this question for us – in what ways this offer is being accepted.
I want to ask all of us and you too, Commissioner, to make this happen. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, you have reported many positive things, but even so I would like to express a few doubts.
We have used the World Cup in order to bring a taboo subject to the attention of the public, simply because football is such a big event.
Forced prostitution takes place alongside all big events, and not only sports events.
Despite this I support the project and I am pleased that the World Cup has made it possible for us to bring this issue into the public eye.
If FIFA has perhaps misunderstood this and feels itself under attack, then I regret this, since it could have supported us brilliantly with many great football players and stars, and made the fans more aware of these related issues.
This does not mean that FIFA is responsible for the problem, but it could have helped us, and, I think, should have been obliged to do so.
Back on Women’s Day you told us that there would be a single number, translated into many languages and available 24 hours a day.
You have talked about enhanced cooperation with Europol.
This activity should be coordinated with our work together with Interpol, and I am glad that the German authorities – the embassies, consulates and so on – are participating in this too.
Perhaps after the World Cup we can draw up a summary, showing how the emergency calls have been responded to, from which countries of origin most of the victims come and, above all, what has been done to take care of the victims.
These are questions that must be asked after the World Cup.
A large part of it should already have been completed, and the rest should be taken care of by the end of the year.
I wish us all much success, and: Let us show forced prostitution the red card! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Frattini, I am glad that you have adopted this initiative by the European Parliament against human trafficking and forced prostitution.
This must be the starting whistle for more projects going beyond the World Cup, not only for sports events, but for all big events in general.
When all is said and done, we need a hotline like this to be permanent.
This must be a rallying call for us to take action against the sexual exploitation of women and against all forced prostitution, but we also need more debate about best practice in comparison with other Member States.
We need officials with special responsibility for combating human trafficking and the like, and this is where we have to set a shining example. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, as a result of the hearing that was arranged by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality and that took place on 8&#160;March, representatives of the Commission made a number of promises in relation to measures to prevent the detestable trade in sex slaves.
Today, we are forced to observe that not many of these promises have actually been fulfilled.
The UN estimates that four million people are transported within or between countries every year in order to be exploited sexually.
The links between the legalisation of prostitution and the increase in the number of victims of trafficking must be properly investigated.
Women in the sex trade are victims of men’s violence against women.
A 1999 study showed, for example, that 80% of women in Dutch brothels were victims of the sex slave trade.
By 2001 this number had risen to 15&#160;000.
I quote both of these figures from the organisation Children’s Rights ().
Let the football World Cup in Germany be historic, not just for what happens on the pitch, but above all for the fact that we finally get to grips with these issues.
Let this World Cup be remembered as a sporting event that took the decisive steps towards putting an end to the sex slave trade. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start with a few words about trains.
On the first day of the World Cup, the train I took from Cologne to Gelsenkirchen took 2 hours 15 minutes instead of the normal 59 minutes, while the train from Brussels to Cologne was delayed by 30 minutes.
This gave me time to think about Franz Beckenbauer, the head of the World Cup organising committee, who quite recently unceremoniously dismissed the question of enforced prostitution during the World Cup championship with some off-hand comments.
I also remembered Karl-Heinz Rummenigge’s reaction during a recent public hearing on football before the European Parliament, held on 3&#160;May.
Where football is concerned, in the Netherlands, we tend to say: no words but deeds, and that is a message I should also like to send to Commissioner Frattini and the Member States.
Where, however, border control on the east is concerned, you are taking a very long-term view, for example where hotlines are concerned and also when it comes to gaining an insight into the problem and the criminal networks feeding it.
I detect in your statement a lack of cooperation on the part of the Member States, and that is a serious matter, since I realise that you rely on information from them.
I look forward with a great deal of interest to your assessment at the end of this World Cup and I hope that we, along with you, in this respect too, can bring more pressure to bear on the Member States and encourage them to roll up their sleeves and do something about this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, human trafficking is one of the world’s most profitable crimes.
Last Thursday, on the eve of the World Cup, several colleagues and I came to see you, Commissioner, to discuss this problem and present two petitions.
We collected more than 23&#160;000 signatures in two months.
The largest trade unions in Denmark joined us and handed over a petition with 80&#160;000 signatures.
There is a mismatch between the recent high level of public awareness and media attention, which is an extremely positive development, and, on the other hand, the widespread denial – for example, in several mainstream German newspapers and other groups in German society – of the link between the World Cup and an increase in trafficking and enforced prostitution.
Europe will have assessed the situation and identified a very serious problem.
After the World Cup, to ensure accountability, there needs to be an assessment of the scale of the problem in Germany during the World Cup, as well as an assessment of the measures taken.
I am very pleased that, as you mentioned, there has been cooperation with Europol.
However, we need to know more about what measures the Commission is taking, along with Europol, to combat trafficking in relation to the World Cup.
We therefore emphasise that, at the same time as fighting the traffic in women and the criminal networks that run it, it is essential to promote equal rights and dignity for women.
That also involves the creation of jobs with rights and guaranteed access to high-quality public services, particularly in the areas of health, education, housing and justice, so that we can succeed in reducing poverty and social exclusion and thus tackle the main factors that force women into prostitution, whether they are citizens of EU Member States or of third countries, where there is great poverty.
Furthermore, it also involves the need for us to pay greater attention to promoting the dignity of women in social communications, in advertising, in the family, and in fighting all forms of discrimination and violence of which they are still victims.
Therefore, Commissioner, we propose that you start prioritising all these issues to protect the rights of women. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, it is widely known that in Germany prostitution is legal and regulated by law.
Experience, nevertheless, indicates that legal prostitution poses no obstacle to trafficking in the victims of forced prostitution in this market.
Experts estimate that as many as 30-40&#160;000 prostitutes may be coming to the World Cup events, and there are justifiable concerns that among them there will be a&#160;large number of victims of human trafficking or, as several speakers have described them before me, victims of modern slavery.
Commissioner, I would also like to get an answer to my question as to whether the German authorities are going to treat these victims as illegal immigrants and expel them instead of giving them the protection they are entitled to under international law.
Commissioner, I am delighted that you have emphasised the important role of demand.
In my opinion, Europe needs to adopt two interconnected approaches in order to persevere with this matter.
The aim of the first approach must be to break up the vicious triangle linking victims, traffickers and clients.
This would certainly require a concrete and binding programme of action: an example of true European cooperation which, as you have said, can exist only in the medium or long term.
Nevertheless, we must enlist the participation of European citizens in hard-hitting, high-visibility campaigns that have major symbolic significance, so that your wishes in this matter become a political priority for all of us.
Europe is not present at the World Cup championship.
That weakens the very communication plan that the Commission has proposed with great ceremony: that is to say, Plan D.
If that were the case I should be concerned; but I hope that things are not as I have described.
These great events can give rise to many positive emotions, but also to a number of negative developments, and that is where the fun stops.
On 28&#160;April, during the EU Conference of Interior Ministers, Commissioner Frattini was quite right to stress that Germany is prepared to combat this forced prostitution.
In May police raids were carried out in red light districts, with, among other things, 700 brothels being inspected, and checks carried on flats and on almost 2&#160;000 individuals.
The motion submitted by Mrs&#160;Záborská for a resolution of this House points out that, as regards forced prostitution during international sporting events, FIFA has no reason whatsoever to feel insulted.
Europol and Eurojust must both be in a position to do something about this issue.
Let us do what my fellow Members have already done, and do what is necessary by showing this exploitation the red card. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, for months we have had some extraordinary information relating to the football World Cup.
Furthermore, on 13 March, this House called upon the media and sports stars to help in the fight against the sexual exploitation of women and in promoting a change of mindset, in accordance with sport’s values of solidarity.
It is therefore urgent to create a common legal framework for the whole of the European Union and it is essential to create more effective cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination, because we are dealing with a criminal phenomenon of immense proportions whose networks are usually linked to organised crime.
In order to make progress, Commissioner, we must make more resources available and also turn the fight against the trafficking of women into a priority within the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, today we are discussing enforced prostitution and child abuse on the occasion of the World Cup football championship being held in Germany.
It would be disingenuous to give the impression that this phenomenon has suddenly appeared on such a huge scale in Germany of all places, and on the occasion of the World Cup in particular.
Enforced prostitution and sexual abuse of children have been around for many, many years, indeed for decades, during major sporting events, and not just during sporting events.
They accompany every great event, regardless of whether it takes place in a European country or on other continents, in the USA, Asia or Australia.
Analyses have been carried out by Europol and other organisations which are qualified to do so, and reports have been drawn up.
I hope that the excellent organisation of the World Cup by our German colleagues, for which we will undoubtedly congratulate them when it has finished, will also be an opportunity to congratulate them on combating this particular phenomenon. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner&#160;Frattini, I wonder if you have ever opened a European newspaper and browsed the last page, for that is where you will often find small ads, complete with telephone numbers, for young ladies by the names of Lolita, Tina and Francesca, who are girls of Polish, Bulgarian and Ukrainian origin.
The debate was held not only for symbolic and anniversary reasons; it was a political choice by our committee to sound once again the alarm bell for principles, security and the protection of human rights, women's dignity and the image of Europe in the eyes of its citizens and in the eyes of the citizens of the entire world.
We are also expressing our concern about the efficacy of our policies.
I am delighted, Commissioner, that you share our positions on the extent of this phenomenon and on the need to combat it with every preventive and repressive measure in the host country and in the countries of origin.
However, the specific situation which has arisen in Germany constitutes an opportunity for us to check how aware we are and how determined we are to become effective, both the political agencies and society, by which I mean society in the Member States and the European community. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I fear that you have confined yourself – and that we have confined ourselves – to statements, descriptions, studies and more remote, future policies on the taking of fundamental decisions on combating forced prostitution gangs.
Even in your references to the work of the German Government, which truly is an achievement today, these days, you did not clarify how the national local authorities should work in order to dismantle or combat these gangs at once and not with cross-border cooperation now that the goods have left the factory gate.
We as the European Union did not even manage to convince an organisation like FIFΑ of this.
Above all, however, I fear that we shall confine ourselves to studies, we shall abandon the victims and we shall say that the operation was a success but the patient died and every day, women and children will die behind locked doors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, buying sex is not a sport.
Football and sex do not go hand in hand.
The European Union must call on Angela Merkel’s German government to combat the organised trafficking of women for the purposes of prostitution during the World Cup.
What, therefore, could be more natural than for the sex industry to import some 45&#160;000 women from Eastern Europe, Africa and Latin America in order to satisfy the wishes of these gentlemen?
The trafficking of women constitutes a violation of the fundamental rights of the individual and, in particular, of the right to dignity and respect for physical and mental integrity and of the right not to be subjected to violence.
Governments must ensure protection and respect for the rights of individuals who are victims of trafficking and, in particular women and young girls who are forced into prostitution.
This sexual exploitation must cease and appropriate and effective measures must be put in place against this mafia of sex.
I am especially delighted by the petition launched by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament (PSE) to put a stop to this organised prostitution and this iniquitous treatment of thousands of women.
I am very much in support of this initiative and strongly condemn the organised trafficking of women, which turns them into commodities.
In this context, Commissioner, are you going to take into account some of our proposals, such as the launch of a prevention campaign targeting potential victims and informing them of the dangers and risks of recruitment into these networks, or the installation of a direct multilingual telephone line backed up by a vast publicity campaign? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you that people-trafficking is a modern form of slavery.
Their role is often undervalued and they are also thwarted at times by the institutional authorities. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, my homeland, Estonia, has the shameful distinction of occupying third place in the European Union in terms of the number of prostitutes per 1&#160;000 residents, and is only surpassed by Germany and Austria.
The difference between forced prostitution and prostitution is very small.
This does not give the impression that these individuals have freely chosen this occupation, but rather that they are slaves.
I actively participated in the signature campaign organised by the women of the PSE.
Commissioner&#160;Frattini – I call upon you to come before us after the World Cup and give us an overview of what exactly happened in Germany.
This is what is actually needed in order to reduce demand. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank all those who have spoken in the debate.
First and foremost, we are faced on the occasion of the World Cup championship not with a tragic emergency situation but with a modern form of slavery that unfortunately will continue to strike at hundreds of thousands and probably millions of young women.
It is therefore clear that we should not confine our deliberations to the World Cup.
In the course of this workshop we shall bring together all the experiences of this month and draw conclusions to be included in a document that will serve for all other sporting events of this type, and also for cultural and political events.
For example, the German police authorities encountered an increase in forced prostitution at the time of Expo in Hanover some years ago.
Let me add that the Commission also intends to give financial support to the European helplines for women, as we have done for the protection of children who are victims of violence.
Since this is a medium-term measure, I have instructed my office to look into a legally viable formula that would also allow us to allocate funding for young women who are victims of sexual exploitation.
Much has also been said about communication and information.
Furthermore, as I have already noted, we have activated for the first time the network of Member States’ consulates in the countries of origin, since we consider that it is precisely in those countries that information campaigns aimed at potential victims must be more forceful and more widespread.
They therefore have the right to benefit from those assistance programmes already provided by certain Member States for those persons who report that they have been victims of exploitation or, still worse, of forced trafficking for sexual purposes.
I can also tell you that, although the police forces’ data are difficult to explain, hundreds of checks have been carried out in recent months – not only in Germany but also in many transit countries, such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
By these means and thanks to the cooperation between police forces, we have managed to reduce the potential impact to a percentage that we are not yet in a position to specify, because the hundreds of individuals subjected to checks and detained were heading for Germany.
When you have the opportunity to read the final report after the end of the World Cup championship, you will learn something that we too are gradually discovering: namely that the checks have been tightened up and that many cases have been detected where false declarations of the purpose of a short-term stay, for example to work in a bar or carry out domestic work, in fact conceal victims of sexual exploitation.
Water is literally a very profound substance, and we must take care lest we perish in its depths.
Only four additional amendments have been submitted.
It can take years and even decades before discharged pollutants are identifiable in groundwater after seeping through the soil.
In Austria and in my own country of Germany, between 80 and 100% of drinking water is obtained from groundwater.
This is precisely the reason why we must ensure that our groundwater which is still pure remains so for future generations.
This groundwater directive is a daughter to the Water Framework Directive of 2000, which already regulates many pertinent matters.
I absolutely agree that clean water is more important and more valuable than diamonds.
There is unquestionably a need for there to be an effective system of protecting the quality of groundwater as a natural resource, in order to meet the need for drinking water, for industry and for agriculture.
The proposed framework directive complements the Water Framework Directive.
Secondly, it imposes the application of measures to prevent or limit the immediate ingress of dangerous substances into groundwater.
At first reading, the Commission accepted many of the 89 amendments approved by the European Parliament, given that they clarified and improved the text, while at the same time remaining consistent with the structure of the original proposal and the Commission's more general approach.
Before the common position was finalised, the scope and potential for applying Community standards to the quality of groundwater and, more importantly, the question of nitrates in connection with the Nitrates Directive were discussed.
In this instance, the Commission considers that the Nitrates Directive, the Water Framework Directive and the present directive pursue the same objectives as regards the prevention and limitation of contamination from nitrates.
In general, the Commission considers that the common position improves the provisions concerning the definition of threshold values for groundwater and the corresponding compliance regime.
Therefore we are bringing a measure which is aimed to prevent that and to protect the groundwater which, as Mrs Klaß says, in parts of some countries provides a high proportion of drinking water.
She is right, in the work she has done, not only to distinguish between the different geological backgrounds in different parts of Europe so as to show that there is not one single solution to these problems, but also to highlight areas where there are comparable problems and ways we can find to cope with them.
One is to ensure that we have consistency with other directives, in particular the Water Framework Directive.
The Nitrates Directive has also been mentioned, and there are others – the daughter directives.
I am sure we need a stronger term, short of the impossible; and the current text in the groundwater directive which talks of ‘taking all the appropriate measures deemed necessary to prevent’, may be the answer.
The pollution of groundwater leads to situations that are difficult and costly to put right.
Collecting this groundwater in order to use it as drinking water is very important throughout Europe and increasing its protection is therefore a fundamental objective of any protection legislation, not just for water, but also for human health and for the quality of life of the citizens.
We must therefore bear in mind that, since there are very limited possibilities for purifying an aquifer, control and prevention are essential, with a view to preventing polluting substances from reaching this groundwater.
Furthermore, I believe that, in order to guarantee the same protection of groundwater, Member States sharing water masses should coordinate their activities in terms of establishing threshold values and identifying the main dangerous substances.
It is increasingly difficult to secure proper compliance with environmental legislation from Member States.
I remember that when we discussed the Water Framework Directive, this Parliament’s amendments helped give that piece of legislation real teeth.
But I think it is very clear what Members want: we want words to be followed by action.
The important thing for all of us, and for the farming interests too, is to recognise that we all have an interest in preserving groundwater and the soil structure for the long term.
Bad farmers might have difficulty in meeting some of the requirements of this kind of legislation, but we are on the side of the good farmers and the environment, not the bad farmers, and that is as it should be. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is proclaiming today how important water is to us.
We are therefore all in agreement in this House that the question is precisely how we intend to protect groundwater.
In Germany, groundwater can contain one to seven times the permitted level of nitrates, especially in areas where large-scale livestock farming takes place.
We really must emphasise strongly today that we have no intention of permitting exceptions and that we attach great importance to the preservation of the precautionary principle, for we know that treating contaminated water is ten times more expensive than applying the precautionary principle.
Forty per cent of groundwater in Europe is already polluted.
That must be a warning signal to us, deterring us from any notion of enshrining the right, in exceptional cases, to engage in the bad practices that are still prevalent in many Member States and to exceed the prescribed limits.
We must put a stop to the daily contamination of groundwater and, above all, we must put an end to the excessive discharges of nitrogen by industrial agriculture, as the previous speaker indicated.
The pesticides industry will be doing itself a disservice if it does not take a lively interest in the pursuit of these aims. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my political group agrees that groundwater constitutes the most vulnerable ecosystem, the most important source of water for human consumption and also a basic part of other ecosystems, such as rivers and lakes.
The quality of groundwater has deteriorated greatly and this deterioration has affected the environment and public health and the economy.
More than half of all groundwater, according to specialist scientists, has already been polluted and any fundamental prospect of cleaning it up would be extremely time-consuming and extremely expensive; hence, we need to act promptly, because a great many consumers, our fellow European citizens, have now lost their confidence in tap water, preferring bottled water, which sometimes costs up to one thousand times more.
My political group considers that the directive we are debating on the protection of groundwater constitutes the most important legislative tool for maintaining clean groundwater in Europe.
We therefore need a strong directive and not a simple declaration of good intentions, as contained in the extremely inadequate common position of the Council.
I welcome the measures established in the directive, which lays down mandatory criteria for assessing the chemical status of groundwater and for identifying trends in the pollution of groundwater bodies, while also introducing measures for protecting groundwater from indirect pollution.
We cannot do other than conclude that the common position adopted by the Council last year is out of synch with the line this Parliament took at first reading.
In the Netherlands too, groundwater is used for extracting drinking water.
My question is then whether it would be necessary for this nitrate directive to continue to exist alongside this groundwater directive in future.
I look forward to his response. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, I&#160;would also like to thank my fellow MEP, Mrs&#160;Klaß, for her report because I&#160;agree that the current legislation on ground water protection is vague in setting quality and quantity standards.
At the same time, it would be necessary to track the implementation of this legislation by means of effective monitoring by the European Environment Agency.
With this directive we must be able to ensure that intentionally or unintentionally harmful substances cannot get into groundwater.
Resources should be allocated effectively in order that groundwater quality can improve everywhere in Europe and, furthermore, that the high quality that results can be preserved and maintained. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to start by thanking Mrs&#160;Klaß for her efforts.
Everyone is, of course – as has been said many times – in favour of clean groundwater.
According to the Groundwater Directive, groundwater should not contain more than 50&#160;milligrammes of nitrate.
This sort of duplication in legislation requires a clear response.
One of the arguments was clear: we do not want this bureaucratic monster in Brussels, and I am a little concerned that we, with this duplication in legislation, run a considerable risk of ending up with one after all.
Hence my amendments. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, groundwater has been a central issue for the environmental movement right since the movement began in the 1970s.
In many places things went much quicker than that, but in some Member States we have, however, been able to keep the groundwater clean and to avoid having the dubious permits sought by all those who, instead of clean water, talked of healthy water with an in-built allowance for what humans and animals can tolerate.
We have had a more or less serviceable Groundwater Directive, which allowed the Member States to preserve the requirement for clean water.
The European Environmental Bureau (EEB) has pointed out that 87% of European agricultural land is more polluted than the current guidelines recommend.
If one compares the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety with the common position of the Council, there is an enormous difference in quality in respect of environmental content.
Clearly, this means that we must act on what is the main problem, in this case the discharges from agriculture.
A reduction in the discharges of nitrates from agriculture would be excellent for the groundwater, but it would also have other positive effects.
The distinction between groundwater and surface water is not always clear.
The pollution of ground and surface water is a concern in my constituency of Munster, particularly in view of environmental disasters like the deserted tailings pond in Silvermines, County Tipperary, the red mud and salt lake ponds which get bigger every day at Aughinish, an alumina extraction factory in Limerick, and Kilworth, North Cork, where liquid toxic waste is dumped in trenches and left to seep into the earth.
Another concern is that Irish governments have systematically polluted surface and groundwater for the past 40 years in the water fluoridation programme, with the daily addition of hexafluorosilic acid, a bio-accumulating toxin.
In this proposed directive, we deal with quality standards and pollutant levels in groundwater.
However, we seem to waive sensible levels if the pollutant occurs naturally in groundwater.
I should also like to come back to what Mr&#160;Mulder said about our requiring comparable standards in Europe, not necessarily standards like those in Germany or the Netherlands but standards which ensure that comparable rules apply to all clay soils and to all sandy soils.
When I hear my honourable colleagues, however – some of whom have already decamped again – I am quite astonished to note that the Nitrates Directive evidently has not yet been transposed in their respective countries, otherwise they would not be raising such a hue and cry.
If their governments had transposed the Nitrates Directive – and I say this as one of the few farmers in this House who is still running a real farm – this situation could not arise.
That is why the link with the Nitrates Directive is badly needed as a basis for intervention.
He was involved, as you know, in the negotiation of the Nitrates Directive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to associate myself with the numerous congratulations offered to the rapporteur for her good work.
Our vote tomorrow must send a clear signal on health and the environment, while our amendments, which are very likely to be adopted tomorrow, strengthen Article&#160;6, thereby making it a clear sign of intent to protect the environment more effectively.
One of the keys to the protection of our groundwater is a set of uniform European standards for the main pollutants.
The ceiling for nitrates should be set at 50&#160;milligrams, and there must be no exceptions for agricultural activity, which is primarily responsible for the pollution of groundwater in many parts of Europe.
I therefore wholeheartedly support the amendments formulated to this effect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I add my congratulations to Mrs Klaß on her excellent report.
On the subject of the protection of groundwater, there has undoubtedly been a profound difference of understanding and the consequent will to act between Parliament, on the one hand, and the Commission and the Council, on the other.
It has been obvious for all to see that both the Commission’s proposal and the Council’s common position fall short of the remit issued in Article&#160;17 of the Groundwater Framework Directive of 2000.
An educated guess, however, would be that the influence of some Member States’ governments has been exceptionally powerful and overwhelming, because these states just do not have the will to improve the quality of their groundwater.
An attempt is made in this report to transform the common position into a worthwhile piece of legislation, including areas such as the incorporation of the emissions-related approach, ensuring the clarity of the concepts employed, and dissolving the confusion caused by the hazy relationship between the various objectives in connection with the Nitrates Directive, the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Daughter Directive.
Let us hope that, at the end of the day, legislation will be produced which will be both effective and ensure that the principle of comprehensive preventive groundwater protection is implemented. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to add my voice to the thanks that have been expressed to Mrs&#160;Klass, who has set out a very ambitious stall in pursuit of this important aim, despite having to swim against a fairly strong tide, of course, from within our own ranks.
I had, however, expected a more ambitious proposal from the Commission and the Council and in particular a clearer, more targeted and more enforceable common position.
Moreover, the requirements it makes regarding the protection of groundwater are not geared to the conservation of groundwater in the most natural state possible.
If the Member States already have to provide a full description of every substance as part of the measuring process – which is an extremely good requirement, in my view – we must surely see to it that Community or simply national quality standards are defined.
Sampling procedures must be improved, and the wording of the instrument as a whole must be tightened in order to close loopholes that the Member States might exploit and to ensure that the whole directive is not watered down. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur.
I tabled some amendments at first reading and have the same considerations at second reading too.
I support all mandatory measures and instruments for Member State cooperation on shared groundwater bodies.
In Hungary, 90% of all drinking water comes from groundwater, so without Community-level limit values, drinking water standards can hardly be attained.
We have to do our best to ensure the good quality of our drinking water.
The nitrate trigger values proposed in the Nitrates Directive should be taken over as mandatory in the groundwater directive.
We Hungarians, both here in Parliament and in the Council, support strict legislation on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when we talk about treasures hidden in the ground, these days everybody thinks of oil, natural gas or rare minerals, although we also have a more fundamental treasure: groundwater.
Therefore, it is important to protect this treasure from pollution, and this is only possible within the framework of cooperation between countries, because groundwater bodies do not take into account country borders.
Also, the natural processes affecting the composition of groundwater extend over several decades, which means that pollution will not only affect us, but future generations, as well.
Just as clean natural waters can be a rare treasure of a country, natural pollution is also a characteristic that we must accept, especially when there is nothing we can do about it.
Thank you very much, and I would like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Klaß, the rapporteur, on her excellent work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the safeguarding of groundwater from pollution is a good improvement to the Water Framework Directive.
My question, of which my colleagues have already spoken here, is whether the Commission has sufficient authority to bring this waste under control? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Klaß for a job well done.
The use of organic fertiliser in farming is a major question.
Educational activities should therefore constitute an important element in implementing the principles set out in the directive.
These activities may fall outside the provisions of the directive on groundwater protection, but they do help to achieve its fundamental objectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, chemical pollution of groundwater has been happening for years, but with the development of the chemical industry the problem has got significantly worse.
Subterranean waters migrate, and it will be difficult to achieve positive results in their preservation without changes in regions of other EU Member States, both near and more distant.
For that reason I would like to raise one of many important issues.
The proposal for a directive proposes upper limits for pesticide content.
However, in addition to the pesticides used for current production, there are tens of thousands of tons of old pesticides stored in individual countries, the majority of them poorly protected – if at all – from the effects of rainfall, wind and humans who continue to use these combinations of various pesticides to protect their plants.
It may appear that the quantity of pesticides used on the surface is falling, but we know that there are also large quantities in groundwater.
If we want to protect groundwater, and therefore our health, we can, and indeed must, find the funding to deactivate and eliminate such stores of pesticides. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my thanks to Mrs&#160;Klass for her good work in connection with both readings of this draft directive.
We are largely in agreement in committee on the thrust of our aims, as you know, and we shall defend them resolutely against the Council and the Commission.
The groundwater directive is ultimately about prevention and rehabilitation, and I personally find the preventive approach more appealing.
Up to 80% of drinking water is obtained from groundwater in various countries, such as Germany and Austria and much of southern England.
I support the draft directive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also wish to thank the rapporteur for her work.
Many people this evening have mentioned the Nitrates Directive, which dates back to 1991.
I have two questions on the Groundwater Directive, concerning Amendments 36 and 43, which remove the provision clarifying the relationship between the Nitrates Directive and the Groundwater Directive where there is an overlap.
If these amendments are adopted, I believe we may be left with two different regimes operating simultaneously for nitrates from agricultural sources.
Tackling environmental problems requires education and information campaigns aimed at all sectors: farmers, industrialists and homeowners.
The agriculture problem debated this evening and referred to so frequently arose because, in the past, farmers followed the advice of experts who encouraged the increased use of inputs with scant awareness of the environmental impact that advice would have.
Ironically, some of that advice was supported through EU and Member State funding.
The amendments relating to the definition of the deterioration in groundwater and regulations for nitrates are exceptionally important.
Amendments 12, 18 and 23 propose provisions for maintaining the status quo as regards the quality of groundwater.
I endorse the rapporteur's comment that vigilance is required in order to prevent any deterioration in the quality of groundwater.
Nonetheless, the concern that the new directive possibly leaves a margin for additional pollution is addressed through the demand in Article 5 for any important upward trends in concentrations of pollutants to be identified and reversed.
In addition, maintaining the status quo is not in keeping with the requirements of the Water Framework Directive, in accordance with which the quality of groundwater must be managed so as to prevent any deterioration.
As regards regulations on nitrates, the Commission can accept Amendment&#160;36 proposing that the reference to the Nitrates Directive be deleted.
The Commission considers that this reference is unnecessary if account is taken of the relevant provisions of the Water Framework Directive.
I should like to repeat here that the Nitrates Directive, the Water Framework Directive and this directive have the same objectives as regards the prevention and limitation of contamination from nitrates.
Similarly, there are no material differences as regards their legally binding nature and the measures required or the various deadlines.
Furthermore, the Nitrates Directive is still important, given that the European Union's water policy aims to address pollution at source.
Certain other amendments are acceptable, such as the references to the common agricultural policy, the storage and recovery of groundwater and research.
On the other hand, the Commission cannot agree with Amendment&#160;15, the objective of which is to base standards for groundwater on human and ecotoxicological criteria, given that this issue is dealt with adequately in the Drinking Water Directive.
Similarly, Amendments 24, 25, 28 and 29 concern matters already covered by the Water Framework Directive and consequently cannot be accepted.
Mr President, I should like to put a supplementary question to the Commissioner.
These are amendments: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 31, 36, 37, 38, 40, 43, and 47.
Better access to spatial information is of key importance if we want to involve the public more in the implementation of environmental policy at all administrative levels.
As you know, we want to use INSPIRE to set up an infrastructure for spatial information in Europe in which the exchange and sharing of data between governments is paramount.
It also wants to be, of course, the driving force behind collating new relevant environmental information and eventually, it will also be an instrument to make environmental policy more efficient and effective across the borders.
This proposal has its sights on both information that is required to monitor the state of the environment and information improving that state.
In my view, all policy decisions that impact on the environment, either directly or indirectly, stand to benefit from this.
In order to protect the citizens against floods – and that is something that Mr&#160;Seeber as rapporteur will be able to confirm in a moment – the standardisation and exchange of data on river basins, water courses and risks are invaluable.
Finally, in the context of bird flu, for example, as we are experiencing it, or not yet, hopefully, our joint reaction could be even more efficient if data on poultry farms, wild fauna and migratory birds across the borders were to be made available.
In a number of other major European projects, such as GMIS, too, the added value is considerable, since INSPIRE can be the supplier of data that is needed to set up, within GMIS, an operational global information system for monitoring the environment and safety.
To us, the search services and consultation services for the public are vital and should, in principle, be free.
The proposal even provides for the fact that the financial viability of government bodies should be of concern to the Member States.
Along with my fellow shadow rapporteurs, whom I would like to thank warmly for the very constructive cooperation in this very difficult and very technical dossier, I therefore regret that we failed to reach agreement with the Council at second reading.
Environmental policy at European Union level or at national level depends in particular on spatial information or, in other words, on information which can be placed geographically on a map.
Agricultural and regional policy, for example, rely in particular on the existence of spatial information.
The formulation of our policies is hampered by the fact that spatial information is often isolated in systems which are not easily accessible.
Similarly, in certain instances, data are classified in such a way that it is impossible to combine them with other sources, with the result that the evaluations needed in order to formulate policies cannot be carried out.
The proposed INSPIRE directive aims to address the problems in question by improving the accessibility and interoperability of the spatial information systems kept by the public authorities of the Member States.
In this way, the potential offered by modern technology as regards access to the information we need can be developed in the best possible way.
Collating the individual experiences of the Member States is in this case a clear example of the added value of the proposed directive at European Union level.
At first reading, the Commission accepted most of the amendments proposed by Parliament.
The most basic issues are as follows: the degree to which the public will have electronic access to spatial information, the removal of barriers to common use of spatial information between public authorities and the comitology procedure for the introduction of implementing rules.
It is with satisfaction that I find that, for the most part, the issues in question have been addressed thanks to the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
Consequently, the package of amendments constitutes a good basis on which to proceed to the compromise procedure with the Council.
There is a problem, as he has indicated, and I think that like the last measure this will have to be resolved in conciliation, but there are one or two concerns which still need to be recognised and addressed.
My second point, perhaps a more serious concern, is the concern that comes from defence sources.
If you were to allow unrestricted access to discovery metadata, it would be possible to identify trends in areas that are being surveyed, for example, to provide information about naval patrol routes, allowing anyone who intends to commit terrorist attacks or any other maritime crime to track, intercept or avoid naval vessels.
I have absolutely no doubt about the usefulness of this proposal as a fundamental tool for drawing up, applying, monitoring and evaluating environmental policies at all levels and policies or activities which directly or indirectly affect the environment.
Furthermore, I believe that it is appropriate to base this Community infrastructure on the spatial data infrastructures established and managed by the Member States, in full application of the principle of subsidiarity, particularly when the Member States have several levels of public administration – as is often the case.
I therefore hope that this Directive will be promoted most firmly by all sectors and levels of administration and that, in conciliation, we can finally achieve a good instrument that can fulfil all of these objectives. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, of course the sharing of information is a laudable goal, but there are specific issues.
I am not opposed to the sharing of information and data across Europe, but it must come with a price attached when it has cost so much to acquire.
The fact that data has a monetary worth is the key to future progress and future development.
I nevertheless believe that a common policy on the environment is something that benefits all European countries – even those that already have exemplary arrangements – because environmental problems simply do not stop at national borders.
At the same time, there are some problems we must address, such as liability issues.
We must also take into account that the local authorities will suffer some loss of income.
Another problem is that the data we generate should be as homogeneous as possible, and this will entail a degree of harmonisation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like you to allow me to congratulate my honourable friend on the efforts which she made on the report in question and the results so far.
Indeed, the time has come throughout Europe for us to seriously address the question of the lack of infrastructures and records of spatial information available, especially on environmental and public health issues, for starting a new effort as the basis for a series of services to citizens, high-level services available to everyone, without limitations and, most importantly, available to the public services and to other agencies with the facility for access from the Internet.
The public agencies will be able to find information more easily and, of course, the citizens will be able to access sensitive data, so as to formulate an opinion and be able to participate in real consultation procedures.
These amendments avoid complicated procedures for approving rules and safeguard their uniform application in all the Member States.
Amendments 18 to 22 relate to public access to data and reflect the initial intention of the Commission's proposal.
Amendments 23 to 27 relate to exchanges of information between public authorities and are acceptable in full, with the exception of Amendment&#160;24, which is acceptable in part.
The second part of Amendment&#160;24 concerns the amount of the charges made, which does not necessarily apply in all cases.
Many of the other amendments restore the intentions of the initial proposal as regards less important issues or are amendments relating, for example, to the organisation of the coordinating structures in the Member States.
I shall subsequently forward a full list of the Commission's positions on Parliament's amendments(1) and I would like once again to thank the rapporteur on the excellent work she has done. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in their entirety: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36.
The following amendments are acceptable in part or in principle: 4, 8, 12, 21 and 24.
However, much can be done to limit the disastrous consequences which floods often have for the health and life of man, economic activity and property and the environment in Europe.
In addition, as the repercussions of climate change are becoming more and more apparent, floods throughout Europe are expected to become more extreme and unpredictable.
Following a series of extreme floods in the past, numerous Member States and regions have already made significant progress in flood management.
The proposal requires flood maps to be prepared by 2013 and flood risk management plans to be prepared by 2015 for all catchment basins and coastlines found to be exposed to a high risk of flood.
Finally, it should be noted that the proposal for a directive on flood risk management is closely linked to the framework directive on water resources approved by the European Parliament and the Council in 2000.
This approach does not simply incorporate in a single framework all the policies relating to the quality and quantity of water resources, it also safeguards cross-border coordination of catchment basins and coastlines which cross more than one Member State or even third countries.
The principle of integrated management of catchment basins also constitutes an important element for flood risk management policies.
That is why, as I said earlier, the principle of integrated management of catchment basins links this directive with the framework directive on water resources.
Consequently, the link with the framework directive on water resources is very important.
Finally, the proposal for a directive sets great store by subsidiarity and flexibility, so that the Member States will have the facility to find the most suitable solution for each area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at this juncture I should like to express my special thanks to Commissioner&#160;Dimas and in particular to his staff and to the shadow rapporteur for their excellent cooperation in the drafting of this report.
From 1998 to 2004 we had more than a hundred cases of serious flooding, especially on the banks of the Rivers Danube and Elbe in 2002.
For these reasons I very much welcomed the Commission’s proposal to present its flood action programme following the floods of 2000.
Then came the Commission’s communication on flood management, and after that the Environment Ministers invited the Commission to present this proposal for a directive.
Let me remind you that Article&#160;1 of the framework directive proclaims the purpose of not only safeguarding and improving the aquatic environment but also of mitigating the effects of floods.
I therefore believe that this initiative from the Commission is taking us in the right direction.
The European regulatory framework is absolutely essential, especially in view of the fact that water bodies and watercourses do not respect national borders, and not even the best of national strategies can guarantee success.
Thankfully we do have Member States, such as Britain, the Netherlands and Germany, and Austria too, that have undoubtedly made a good deal of progress already.
But their efforts are thwarted by the fact that most strategies are purely national in character.
Previous work should be protected; in other words, full account will be taken of the efforts Member States have already made to combat flooding.
There is therefore no way in which parallel European rules can be used to compel Member States whose work on flood defences is already far advanced to implement a different set of measures, even though their own existing system already works perfectly.
The principle of solidarity is also important.
What we have now is a proposed directive, which is strong enough to offer people protection without duplicating the work done by other authorities, particularly at the regional and the local levels and which is also good for the environment.
We have to promote measures that work with nature in managing floods, not against it, and must understand, for example, that areas currently with no flood risk may be of huge flood mitigation value in the future, and include them in the maps and plans.
There can be no doubt that we must do something to prevent these flood disasters.
In my opinion, however, we could also achieve adequate flood protection in Europe without a directive on the assessment and management of floods.
One thing must, in any case, be clear: if we have to adopt a directive, it must take account of the Member States’ previous efforts.
If the aim of a new directive is already being pursued by Member States with the aid of appropriate measures, we in the European institutions should respect that.
It is therefore absolutely imperative that consideration be given to efforts which Member States are already making.
If Member States have already compiled flood maps for particular areas or in cases where a risk assessment has already been carried out, such work should not be devalued by directives, and there must be no obligation on these states to compile new maps or carry out new risk assessments.
That is one of the reasons why I am actually opposed in principle to a directive. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report and thank the Commission for presenting this directive.
Together with Mr&#160;Seeber and other fellow Members, I visited some of the countries most affected by the flooding and we were able to observe the damage caused by the 2005 floods .
During our visit to Germany and Austria we listened to the people’s concerns, gathered suggestions from the regional authorities and observed examples of good practice in flood risk prevention and management.
This contact with people on the ground was a very useful experience for us in drawing up our reports.
In Central Europe, for instance, in Bavaria, there was very severe flooding in 1999, 2002 and 2005.
Already this year as well, thousands of people have had to abandon their homes and many factories have had to stop work, not only in Germany but also in other countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Austria.
Some Member State governments have even declared a state of emergency in various regions, and there have already been victims to mourn.
Cities flooded, houses destroyed, millions and millions of euros’ worth of damage, and severe social and environmental problems are some of the obvious consequences of flooding.
The United Nations Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, said in this respect that we have to move on from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention, and there is proof that prevention brings results.
In the last few years alone, floods in Europe have cost hundreds of human lives, made hundreds of thousands of people homeless and caused billions’ worth of damage.
I would not question in principle the need for Community legal provisions and action plans, since most of Europe’s river basins are divided between two or more countries, and purely national strategies are sometimes inappropriate.
In its proposal for a directive on the assessment and management of floods, the Commission has produced a great deal of unnecessary red tape.
Firstly, the draft directive clearly infringes the subsidiarity principle, particularly in Articles 7 and 9.
The idea that the Member States should have to compile flood-risk maps and management plans for parts of river basins is unacceptable.
The directive should concentrate on river basins straddling national borders.
In many Member States there are already adequate arrangements for national water bodies and watercourses.
The very countries that have suffered from flooding in the past now possess very good strategies and plans which take account of both the European flood-protection objectives and specific local conditions.
I therefore wholeheartedly support the amendment establishing a new Article&#160;16a, which would recognise the Member States’ previous work inasmuch as it coincides with the aims of the directive.
Countries must be given the necessary leeway in this respect, for our failure to introduce a healthy dose of flexibility would make transposition a hugely expensive business for those very countries that have already done a great deal of work in developing efficient strategies.
The draft must be adjusted accordingly.
Now, conversely, we are discussing ways of protecting ourselves against the destructive effects of water as an element, or in other words against floods.
Obviously we cannot disregard the principles of subsidiarity and flexibility.
I do think, however, that some standardisation both as regards legislation and the principles governing crisis management in the event of floods, and as regards ensuring full compatibility of life-saving equipment, is necessary.
This will make rapid and coordinated help possible, which is very important in the basins of rivers that flow through more than one country.
In Poland, where this year we experienced flood damage both in the Podkarpackie region and in Malopolska, the Volunteer Fire Brigade have played a very important role in rescue operations for many years, and I would like to use this opportunity to thank them publicly for that.
However, a significant number of these disasters, which often cause loss of life, injuries and huge material damage, are the result of human irresponsibility or indifference.
Let us therefore be wise before the event and minimise our losses.
I therefore welcome a directive that should lead to better protection against floods.
Indeed, the Commission proposal for Article&#160;9 can be interpreted in such a way that not only the plans, but also the implementation of the measures contained in those plans must be assessed by the Commission.
Not only does this lead to a totally different situation, for that has never been laid down in any directive, but this could also mean that Member States will make only very unambitious plans.
I would like to finish off by thanking Mr&#160;Seeber for his excellent report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment and management of floods relate to phenomena that have been known for centuries.
I would like to thank Mr&#160;Seeber for his work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this directive of the European Parliament is an important step towards the safety of the whole of Europe.
The proposal for a directive emphasises that the plan’s main priority is the protection of human life.
Between 1997 and 2005 more than 700 people died as a result of floods in Europe.
Appreciative though I am of the Commission proposal, I do have two comments to make about it.
That is why the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is asking for more flesh to be put on the idea of cooperation between Member States.
This is all the more important because floods are and will continue to be the most frequent natural disaster due to climate change, and also because of the possibility of flooding as a result of neighbouring countries releasing water from their reservoirs.
As it stands, however, the directive gives the impression that floods will be a predictable and controllable phenomenon within the European Union, because a group of experts will manage them.
It is hard to imagine coordinated rescue efforts between Poland and Belarus, for example, or cooperation within river basins between the relevant authorities.
The directive should have paid greater attention to the areas bordering third countries, as is the case with Poland and Ukraine or Belarus.
Each year, the Danube and Tisza transport 120&#160;billion cubic metres of water through Hungary, which makes us per-capita leaders in Europe.
Finally, a great merit of the report is that it emphasises the vital importance of cooperation between countries sharing river basins.
This directive is the result of experience gained over many years in the Member States in relation to managing waterways.
In 1975 it was one of the first states in Europe to approve a Guidance Plan for Water Management based on the management of individual river basins.
I am therefore torn between these two positions.
Flood prevention is a classic example of solidarity.
The draft directive guarantees a minimum level of protection of common interests and a degree of solidarity – through the Solidarity Fund, for example, which actually disbursed some 100 million euros to Romania, Bulgaria and the Tyrol in 2005.
I welcome the call for international coordination of flood-risk management measures, and I thank my honourable colleague Mr&#160;Seeber for his balanced report.
I also appreciate the fact that the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Seeber, understands the key importance of local and regional authorities in this process, as can be seen from the wide range of amendments which engage local authorities in a positive way in the decision-making processes for the prevention, planning and management of the flood risks that affect them.
This law will therefore be important because it will facilitate the coordination of European efforts to reduce such occurrences.
I am therefore grateful that the rapporteur, as well as the Committee on Regional Development, have accepted my proposal to widen the definition of floods to make it more comprehensive and to ensure that floods caused by heavy rainfall are also incorporated within the meaning of this new law. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago, at the plenary part-session in May, against the backdrop of ever more frequent natural disasters, especially floods, we adopted at first reading the report on the new Solidarity Fund for the period from 2007 to 2013, for which I was the rapporteur.
I should like to emphasise that most of the amendments approved by the European Parliament provide useful clarifications to the proposal and improve cohesion, especially in connection with the framework directive on water resources.
I shall comment first of all on the amendments which the Commission can accept in full, in principle or in part.
The Commission therefore agrees with the rapporteur that it is important to strike the right balance between flood risk management measures and environmental protection, while at the same time maintaining adequate references to the framework directive on water resources.
As regards the impact of climate change, the Commission agrees that this parameter must be taken into account, especially when reviewing flood risk assessments.
Consequently, the Commission can accept Amendments 38 and 73, which strengthen the relevant provisions of the directive.
The Commission does not wish to impose any needless administrative burden on the Member States and shares the opinion that the Member States must, during the first period of application of the directive, be in a position to use maps and diagrams which already exist and which comply with the requirements of the directive.
The Commission can therefore accept in full or in principle a series of amendments which further clarify these obligations, such as Amendment&#160;62, which is accepted in full, and Amendment&#160;61, which is accepted in principle.
Secondly, certain amendments add superfluous references or overlap with other elements of Community legislation or create legal obscurity.
I am pleased to say that there are 71 amendments which the Commission can accept fully, in part, or in principle.
It accepts 16 amendments in full: 1, 2, 3, 5, 13, 16, 18, 25, 28, 32, 39, 45, 54, 58, 62 and 66.
It accepts 55 amendments in principle or in part: 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 46, 48, 49, 52, 55, 56, 60, 61, 64, 67, 68, 69, 71, 73 , 74, 77, 78, 79, 80, 82, 83, 84, 86, 87, 88, 90, 93 and 94.
It cannot accept 24 amendments: 14, 23, 27, 42, 43, 44, 47, 50, 51, 53, 57, 59, 63, 65, 70, 72, 75, 76, 81, 85, 89, 91, 92 and 95. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission (O-0049/2006 – B6-0307/2006) by Mr&#160;Queiró, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on measures to promote tourism. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Verheugen, the presentation in March this year of the Commission communication ‘A renewed EU tourism policy: towards a stronger partnership for European tourism’ could – and should – have been an opportunity to discuss the Community institutions’ next steps with a view to strengthening the tourist industry in Europe.
Europe needs, then, to find development opportunities where it can be competitive and sustainable, where it has comparative advantages with economic potential.
When the Commission presents a new communication on the subject, therefore, it could be expected to say something new and to respond to the challenges that this Parliament threw down in its resolution on the future of sustainable tourism in Europe, which was adopted in September 2005.
The proposals to adopt specific measures aiming at the sustainable development of the tourist industry and at making good economic use of it have elicited no response from the Commission, or only an inadequate one.
Another example: the European Capitals of Culture are a successful model in promoting the cultural heritage of host cities and creating a greater sense of identity among European citizens.
The same could be said in relation to Parliament’s request to be involved in preparing Agenda&#160;21 in the area of sustainable European tourism, or the need to set up mechanisms to protect European tourists caught up in crisis or disaster situations abroad.
Even so, one would expect greater vision, greater political willingness, and the ability to make decisions and, above all, to send out clear signals to private economic operators and the Member States themselves.
That was the expectation that we had for this Commission communication on tourism.
To conclude, Commissioner, let me reformulate the question that prompted this debate.
Then we shall have an entirely new range of opportunities for action in this field, which – and here I agree with you wholeheartedly – is extremely important to the economic future of Europe.
I am firmly convinced that tourism offers enormous potential for the economic development of Europe.
With this oral question, therefore, we want to highlight the potential which tourism has to contribute to the development goals of the European Union and to the challenges which we are addressing all together.
European tourism can acquire greater visibility, coordinated advertising, identity in its products and its objectives and can become visible and distinguished both in the rest of the world and to European citizens.
I therefore believe that, even if we do not have the Constitution, we can cooperate with the private sector and with government agencies, in order to promote some of these things.
Furthermore, despite the impossibility of harmonising the laws and regulations of the Member States, the possibility remains open for the European institutions to work together when it is seen to be necessary for the functioning of the internal market or where there is a specific legal basis, as in the case of consumer protection, transport and the environment.
In my opinion, therefore, there is no reason why this communication should have run into the sand or why there should be no European tourism policy.
The most sustainable form of travel is the train.
It is therefore good that the European Commission has presented an appropriate communication on this, and that on 8&#160;September 2005 Parliament passed a resolution on the new perspectives and new challenges for sustainable European tourism.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that in addition to the problem raised in the question, there are other no less important issues, such as the development of tourism in the new Member States and in little-known regions with unspoiled landscapes and a natural balance, in which traditional culture is still very much alive.
This has to be brought about through the development of new forms of sustainable tourism such as agritourism, rambling, cycling or horse-riding.
The Commission has a duty to improve the coherence of its actions for tourism with other related Community policies.
At a time when citizens have doubts about political power, hearing the recommendations of the European Parliament would certainly be the best means of restoring their confidence in their institutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, greater involvement of the European institutions is essential if tourism is to be developed in a more sustainable fashion.
I therefore share the concerns that prompted the question by my fellow Member Mr&#160;Queiró, particularly because I come from a country, Portugal, and more specifically from an outermost region, Madeira, where tourism is one of the most significant factors for its economic and social development.
In addition, although tourism lies within the competence of the Member States, the Union has an important role to play in this field through political guidelines and actions at a European level.
The Union’s action, in supporting, coordinating and supplementing the Member States’ actions – as indeed is laid down in the Treaty that has yet to be ratified – adds significant value to national policies and actions aiming at the sustainable development of the tourist industry.
I shall mention two points in support of European action: the major economic and social significance of tourism, associated with the importance of the new information and communications technologies and with the innovation that it promotes, will make this one of the sectors that will contribute most to competitiveness and job creation, in line with the Lisbon Strategy.
Hence the importance of this moral issue in drawing the necessary commitment from the Commission and the Council to follow up the relevant initiatives proposed by Parliament for sustainable development, particularly through the creation of Destination Europe, the European Union brand, and an assurance that tourists’ rights will be protected and safeguarded. &#160;&#160; Mr President, not only has tourism been somewhat forcibly tacked on to the Committee on Transport like a spare wheel, but on top of that we are discussing it so late at night.
Some of the most interesting programmes, with great significance for tourism, are the ‘rural renewal’ programmes.
They have a long tradition in Germany and Austria, and are slowly being introduced in other countries such as Poland.
In my view these are rhetorical questions, but I would like the Commission’s answer to be more than just rhetorical. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, we have heard that it has been three years since the Commission communication and one year, in essence, since the approval by Parliament of the report proposing specific initiatives.
Even though it comes under the action of the Member States, tourism is also significantly affected by Community policies and we must therefore exhaust the possibilities for promoting sustainable European tourism through regional and rural policy.
The European Commission can lend added value to tourism with such initiatives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would once again like to welcome these initiatives on tourism, to which our great friend Mr&#160;Queiró is drawing our attention.
Tourism represents wealth in many regards.
Research shows that job creation in the tourism sector is one and half times greater and quicker than in any other industrial sector.
Furthermore, it offers a great opportunity for development in rural areas, it inspires enormous investments in infrastructures and it improves the living conditions of local residents and, of course, those of the tourists.
The environment and local culture are favoured when authorities restore monuments, open museums, create natural parks, etc.
It is therefore an important instrument for social and regional integration.
Finally, we also need to take a look at our regulations, and see how these are affecting the competitivity of our ports as regards cruise liners and the business they bring with them.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
