European communication policy (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by Mr Herrero-Tejedor, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the White Paper on a European communication policy.
Let us create that legal basis that will enable us to act much more effectively in the future.
In the interinstitutional group we had the opportunity to hear the opinion of the Minister who, on that occasion, was representing the Council, and she told us that she was in a position, not to guarantee unanimity in the Council, since that is something she could not do, but at least to say that she believed there could be such unanimity.
Mr Corbett believes that there is another way to achieve that legal basis.
You know, Christa, that there was only one vote in the Committee on Culture and Education against this report, which calls for the application of Article 308.
I have praised Mrs Wallström, who is not from my party, because I believe that she is doing the right thing.
Mr Bono, Mrs Prets, Mrs Badia I Cutchet, I can see you here, you are members of the Committee on Culture and Education: we discussed the report and approved it in that committee, with just one vote against.
When the Commission adopted the White Paper back in February we said that we intended to open a new chapter as regards communication between the European Union and its citizens.
It also urges the Commission to explore the possibility of launching a genuine Community programme for information and communication on Europe on the basis of Article 308 of the EC Treaty.
We are all more than aware of the crucial role that the media - press, television, radio and the internet - play in contemporary democracy.
Over the last 30 years, the Eurobarometer has been a very useful tool for measuring public opinion, perceptions and orientations.
I take note of your hesitations as regards our proposal for an observatory for European public opinion, but we can adopt a more pragmatic approach or step-by-step approach to this matter.
The Commission will issue its final report on the White Paper next spring.
There are 25 Member States with different political persuasions and cultures, acting together for the common benefit of 450 million citizens - absolutely brilliant!
We can only be held accountable and be effective if people understand what we do for them.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also welcomes the Commission's focus on two-way communication, which is very much a new departure, involving the institutions addressing the public and the public addressing the institutions.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not wish to express its opinion on Article 308.
By a very narrow margin, it voted against explicit reference to that article, but by another very slim margin - and our thanks are due here to Mr Duff - it decided against formally ruling out recourse to Article 308, if you still follow the reasoning.
The debate on the legal basis therefore remains wide open, although from a personal and tactical point of view I unreservedly endorse the proposals made by your rapporteur, Mr Herrero-Tejedor, whose open-mindedness, conviviality and constructive approach I commend.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I am actually glad that the debate on information policy follows immediately after that on the European Ombudsman, for the Ombudsman was, this morning, often referred to in terms of his relations with the public.
In conclusion, I believe that what we need is not so much a code of conduct for the European institutions on communication with the public as a code of conduct for the Commission to ensure that it pursues policies that are more in tune with people's concerns.
Lastly, we need a general code of conduct to apply to the Member States so that they assume their responsibilities and put a stop, once and for all, to the practice of ascribing European successes to national policies and national failures to the Community.
The worst thing that the public accuse us of is that we are over-bureaucratic, with laws that are too divorced from reality and that bring them no benefit.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, we have good reason to be holding today's debate on European communication policy, as it is a non-existent policy.
We need more media at the local, regional and national level, for it is often the case that reports in most of the media take a negative line.
Article 308 would weaken this House, for it makes no reference whatever to Parliament.
The three key points in this document, in my view, are points 23, 24 and 32.
Nevertheless, the Internet only reaches a section of the public that already has an interest.
That too will have a positive impact on our citizens. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the White Paper on a European communication policy aimed to halt the rise of Euro-scepticism, given the results of the referendums in France and the Netherlands.
My group therefore strongly opposes the deployment of Article 308, which is neither necessary nor suitable.
I would therefore like to express my full support for the report by Mr Herrero and his proposal to create a programme on the basis of Article 308 of the Treaty.
If we think that it is enough to publish an article in The Financial Times to communicate with citizens, I am sorry, this is 2006.
They have a right to participate in a public sphere where we have a truly European political culture and truly pan-European media, reflecting the debate that is going on and helping us to understand and follow it.
We now have 400 and for the first time we have established them in the UK as well.
We will increase this number next year, with 30 new centres, and we will continue our obligation to inform citizens, but that is still not enough.
That is also part of our policy.
That is why we engage in Plan D activities, where we invite citizens to participate in the political debate about the future of Europe.
It is at the local, regional and national levels that we most effectively reach those citizens, and therefore we can make our provision of information more effective only by strengthening the communication and making the flow of information more effective between these levels and the EU institutions.
