This new proposal by the Commission for a directive on market access to port services meets the requirements already identified by the Commission back in 2001 when it adopted its first proposal on the matter.
Furthermore, the text stipulates that the Commission shall adopt guidelines on state aid for ports and that the ports concerned must comply with the provisions of the Commission directive on financial transparency.
We need a clear framework of rules that promote investment in our ports.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has made the changes it felt were necessary in relation to the text that was rejected in 2003.
Let me remind the House of the fact that all the arguments for or against a directive on sea ports have been the subject of intensive debate for months, and that there are two things that were determined as long ago as the Committee on Transport and Tourism’s hearing last June.
Secondly, it is to the benefit of existing businesses handling goods in ports that these transitional provisions are intended to secure public leases, in theory at least for a period of up to 46 years.
Our proposals are the right ones in terms of the interests of the port workers, since we want to delete self-handling from the directive.
Fourthly, our proposals are the right ones when it comes to securing the interests of shippers and of the businesses that use them, since, if new businesses come into the market, they can make their choice among the most efficient and best-value service providers and will not – as they currently do in some ports – have to contend with a monopoly situation in which they have to take what is put in front of them.
Pilotage was included in this proposal.
We enacted legislation on the subject, one example being the November 2000 directive on port waste facilities.
You, Commissioner, inherited this questionable package from your predecessor, Mrs de Palacio.
If that is the sort of policy you want, Commissioner, then we are right behind you and will gladly work together with you in producing one. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, almost 50 years since the Community was founded, there is now still no specific legislative framework for port services.
The ports sector is the only transport sector in which problems involving the free movement of services have to be solved one by one by the Commission and via the Court of Justice.
We need a ports directive that can establish the framework for free competition between service providers in ports and also for such freer competition between ports as will provide a safeguard against state aid that distorts competition.
This objective has, however, been completely lost sight of in the debate.
If the directive ends up being rejected – as many of us believe, but do not hope, it will be – the document should be used in future work involving a new impact analysis of legislation in this area.
I have to say that my own group does not have a unanimous view on the approach we should adopt to this issue.
If you read the impact studies that have been carried out, then the conclusion is that if this directive is adopted unchanged, it will result in uncertainty and fewer investments, and will have an adverse effect on the quality of port services.
My group’s conclusion is that we should reject this proposal.
Even if this Member State obligation is taken out of the directive, it still remains detrimental to ports where governments own the port’s inner harbours, the quays and adjacent industrial sites.
As a result of compulsory periodic tendering for operators, the people who work there could lose their jobs when the contract expires.
An important underlying motive may well have been that there were interested parties outside of ports that wanted to make transport by sea even cheaper.
That is astonishing, given that the rates in Europe are lower than those in Asia or America and also because they are only a negligible part of the production costs for industry.
Commissioner De Palacio’s official main argument was to promote shipping between Spain and Italy as an alternative to the huge stream of lorries that drive along the southern coast of France.
Even without a port directive, this short-distance sea transport appears to have skyrocketed already in recent years.
We can defuse this time bomb in tomorrow’s vote once and for all. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the French delegation of the Independence and Democracy Group is in favour of promoting maritime transport.
Yet, do we need this port services directive in order to promote this effective mode of transport?
The aim of this new proposal is to overcome the failure of the first package on port services, which was rejected by this very Parliament.
The scope remains the same, the list of services is identical and the promotion of competition remains excessive.
The study published by the British Transport Ministry on 26 August 2005 even falls under the heading of aggravating circumstances: an increase in the ticket granting entry into the market and an allowance granted to large suppliers at the expense of small companies.
This crucial issue shows just how central the Bolkestein Directive continues to be to all of the Union’s arrangements.
Therefore, despite Article 4 and the exclusion of transport services from the ‘Services’ Directive, we know that these are the kinds of ploys we are used to in this House.
Yes, maritime transport needs specific and precise reforms.
However, stage what events they will, I would like to say to those who espouse the relaxed social standards of the old Europe that without major reforms it will not be possible to maintain those standards after all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this rehashed directive will be decided during the Presidency of Austria, which has no ports at all.
There is no public ownership, no state subsidy, so expansion in the development of facilities and services in British ports depends on retaining the confidence of private investors and high standards of service and employment.
The port authorities know, suppliers of services and facilities know, customers know: the only people who do not appear to know are those in the Commission.
British ports use their initiative and investors’ money to create competitive advantage: the very opposite of a level playing field.
If passed, this directive will cost without yielding benefit and will slow down growth and confidence.
The House should throw it out. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, from the previous positions and events relating to the demonstrations in Strasbourg and other areas of Europe, we have all realised that we are debating an issue which is very serious in its dimensions and repercussions.
That is why we welcome the Commission initiative to propose a regulatory framework which is missing from the European Union more than fifty years after the establishment of the European Community.
It remains astonishing how the Commission, less than a year after the previous port directive was rejected, launched a fresh proposal without consulting the sector, or Parliament for that matter, knowing full well how sensitive this issue is.
The trade unions are obviously concerned about the extent of self-handling, but the proposal has also come under heavy criticism from ports, port companies, pilots and even ship owners.
Rejection means that the ports will simply be able to continue working, as they have done for the past 40 to 50 years with spectacular growth figures in many cases.
A fresh Green Paper or White Paper, as is suggested by some, strikes me as a good approach and the Commission can, meanwhile, focus on what is needed across the sector, namely clear rules on transparency with regard to government investments.
The proposal is similar and the rapporteur is the same person; I say this with respect and affection for my colleague, Mr Jarzembowski, but I believe that this proposal will also be rejected by a majority.
I believe that some of the abuses and forms of contracting imposed on service providers are unacceptable.
I believe that companies have the right to choose workers freely but they should firstly take on those workers who have already been doing certain jobs and whose employment contracts are still in force.
We must modernise our economy, but with the necessary coverage and protection for the people affected, which is the main objective of any political action.
Costs in EU ports are very low; half of what they are in the USA and one-third of what they are in Asia.
Although the European Parliament rejected the directive in question, although the new version of it was rejected in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and although the rapporteur's proposal was voted down in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, the Commission has insisted that it be brought before the European Parliament, demonstrating once again the correlation between the will of the Members of the European Parliament and the workers employed in this sensitive area.
It is said that there is a need for greater competition in this sector to promote growth and job creation, but if this directive is applied, at what expense?
I voted to reject the similar bill two years ago and, as a British Member, I am going to do the same again this week. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, let us overlook the fact that the Members of this Parliament have already, on numerous occasions, come out against the need to adopt such a directive, and their objections have gone unheeded.
If, however, such a directive has to be adopted at any cost, for the sake of opening up the market to competition and creating a legal framework to harmonise port management procedures and to make them transparent, then it should at least be fair and rational.
The current proposal creates a series of distortions and will have consequences that are certainly undesirable, such as a decline in qualifications, with obvious repercussions on overall safety levels.
In particular, it grants the pilotage service alone certain prerogatives associated with safeguarding the safety of shipping, as well as specific public service obligations.
I therefore call for the safety of our ports and the professionalism of their workers to be prioritised.
Two years ago, along with many colleagues, I found myself sitting in this very Chamber, having this very same debate, where a very similar proposal was rejected.
I am all for the free market and can support any proposal that is market-orientated.
If the EU wants to see a market-orientated approach, I suggest that it follows what we already have in the UK: a tried and tested system.
I call on this House to reject the proposal in its entirety and send a simple message to the Commission: ‘no’ means ‘no’ in whatever language one speaks, except ‘Euro-ese’ where it appears to mean exactly the opposite. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, we have a slightly original debate in store for us tomorrow since the Committee on Transport and Tourism has done a procedural ‘u-turn’.
Personally, I will be voting against it, not because – as everyone can confirm – I am particularly radical, but for three reasons.
Secondly, I will be voting against it because this text is socially unacceptable and dangerous.
You need to think along these lines in future when you design the new initiative. &#160;&#160; Mr President, according to the Commission, the purpose of this directive is to make it easier to open up the market in port services and thereby increase the competitiveness of European ports.
In reality, the directive would not open up the market, but instead would increase bureaucracy, reduce the productivity of ports and reduce competition too.
The Commission’s proposal makes little sense.
Europe does not need more poor administration: instead, Europe and we need to ensure the quality of the work done at ports, the safety of employees and their rights and see to it that ports operate flexibly.
As responsible politicians, we are given the opportunity to put this House on the map once again and to make clear our refusal to go along with the of ever more competition, ever more privatisation and ever more liberalisation.
The Greens will therefore reject this directive because we believe that a different Europe is really possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to know if the Commissioner has heard a single speech – other than the one by Mr Jarzembowski, who seemed unsure whether he should say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ – in which someone has taken a favourable view of this port services directive?
That would be a sensible way of going about things, and by conducting yourself in that way you would be doing democracy in the European Union a great service. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that there are problems in certain European ports is not a matter of doubt; what is less certain is that the present Commission proposal will do an adequate job of addressing them.
Sectoral legislation for ports is welcome, and rules on state aid in ports are necessary.
This proposal, however, is not equal to the task of standing up to existing problems without imposing excessively administrative and organisational burdens.
For years, it has been evident that in the general public opinion and in the European ports in particular, there is no democratic support for this anti-social and ideological package of measures that has not been inspired by political common sense.
Based on purely doctrinarian considerations, a proposal is now being put before us virtually identical to that rejected by a majority in this Parliament two years ago, without much respect for this Parliament, against their better judgement, and against the will of the large majority of European dockworkers.
The Commission could not be more blind to the social reality in the Member States, or further removed from the citizens in their suffering. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the fate of this legislation, since it would appear that the House is highly divided, as a Spanish classic said, sometimes we must say what we feel and feel what we say, when faced with unacceptable pressure, however legitimate it may be.
The European Parliament is faced today with a dilemma: either we move forward with the creation of a genuine internal market or we remain in a state of stagnation.
Personally, I have decided to support a proposal whose fundamental principles and objectives are laid down in the Lisbon programme and in the Transport White Paper.
Improving competition amongst port service providers will increase competitiveness and efficiency in ports and contribute to developing goods transport by sea, which is ultimately the main objective of our support for maritime transport in the Union.
It is fundamental for the Member States to guarantee the recognition of a method for the provision of port services that contributes to the genuine development of short-distance sea transport, which, by its very nature, requires efficiency and speed not just in customs operations, but also, in particular, in loading and unloading.
Ladies and gentlemen, in response to the fears of those people who believe that the approval of this directive will lead to a deterioration in the working conditions of workers, we must make it clear that the directive does not just respect the Member States’ legislation on working conditions, training and professional qualifications, but also those that relate to health, safety in the workplace, maritime safety and protection of the environment.
This new proposal has achieved an unusual degree of unanimity, since even those people in my country who identified aspects that were useful for resolving certain bottlenecks and obsolete practices that persist in our ports, have preferred, and prefer, to reject it today.
The move to impose such a landlord model on United Kingdom ports will be enormously damaging.
The threat of a trend towards a non-permanent workforce will lead to a lack of job security, lower skills levels, lower wages, a deterioration in working conditions, and will have a detrimental impact on the surrounding communities.
Under this directive, Liverpool’s communities, which are already among the most deprived in Europe, will witness hard-grafting dockers being put out of work.
Quite apart from the crucial questions of national sovereignty that this strategic sector raises, this proposal, if adopted, would lead to unemployment, precarious working situations and work insecurity, especially via what is known as self-handling.
We have therefore tabled a proposal to reject this directive. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there are several good reasons for rejecting the ports directive.
The European Parliament rejected an identical proposal by the Commission barely a year ago.
No impact assessment has been carried out, nor is it at all clear what benefit the consumer is supposed to derive from all this.
Lastly, we need to assess the impact of liberalising the sector, because what we find most worrying at this point in time is the current trend towards concentrating production and logistics in certain ports around the world.
These are the new challenges, and the directive does not meet them.
What has happened between the first proposal in 2001 and this second one is not a good example of European politics.
Its only aims are those of demolishing the statutes and social protection measures and dragging salaries down in order to make a minority rich, and this to the detriment of people’s safety and the environment.
All the technical-nautical professions and all the European trade unions unanimously reject this Bolkestein-style directive for the ports.
Yesterday, I joined the 10&#160;000 port workers from all over Europe in demonstrating before Parliament.
I can assure you that voting in favour of a directive such as this means taking responsibility for many of the Union’s ports being blocked by hard-line strikes, with all the economic consequences that such action entails.
There, too, the issue is not about whether Europe should or should not be ‘social’, but, in essence, about hundreds of details that go to make up a workable, better, shared Europe.
They may attract the attention of the media, but they help nobody in this Europe in which we share to find their way to better and workable solutions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is a riddle to me why the European Commission should have put forward this proposal again.
I think that there are three arguments for doing so.
What we need instead is a directive on competition between ports, as we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have also pointed out.
Unfortunately, it is not, then, out of concern for the ports and transportation that the European Commission has put forward this proposal.
Finally, this ports directive would be bad for port workers.
Dock work has a glorious, long-standing tradition, which has created rights and prosperity by linking trading activities with the towns that welcomed them.
Without this noble work, which the directive would wipe out for the sake of free-market policies, there would be no future for Europe.
The European social model is our chief resource, and this directive, just like the Bolkestein directive, is the negation of it.
The news of this last aspect still does not seem to have got through to the trade union movement, or to some Members of this House for that matter.
This has been amply clarified by Members of this House, first among them Mr Jarzembowski, with whom, and on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I have tabled a proposal.
We would ask the Commissioner to present a document setting out its vision of port policy in the broadest sense, including competition between the ports, as a basis for what we hope will be a sound discussion this time.
Let us hope that that will prompt a sound discussion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when the European Parliament threw out the proposed port services directive two years ago no one believed that the Commission would try to bring it back.
Let us be very clear about the damage that this law, if adopted, would inflict on ports, including the east coast ports which I represent in this Parliament.
Compare that with the port of Tilbury, which achieved a 50% reduction in accidents in 2005, or Great Yarmouth, which has seen no reportable accidents for two years.
Already two new investment projects at Tilbury have been put on hold because of the uncertainty created by this directive.
Port expansion at Bathside Bay, so recently approved at Harwich, and the positive decision we very much hope for this week for the Felixstowe South expansion, are both in jeopardy.
Competition is needed between ports, not within them.
This European Parliament, having sought to reject this proposal once and for all, should now vote ‘no’ for a second time and never again. &#160;&#160; – As the previous speeches have shown, this proposal for a directive has caused huge controversy, which has extended way beyond this Chamber, covering many port operators and most workers in the sector.
As regards the latter, I should like to state that we understand their protest but do not accept their violent methods.
That said, the two committees called upon to give their opinions both declared their opposition to the proposal for a directive, thereby further securing its political fate.
We all know that almost all external trade in the EU is conducted through its ports and that the ports employ some 350&#160;000 people directly, not to mention those employed indirectly in the sector.
As far as we are concerned, it will obviously be much easier to make a decision in line with the stated objectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Lisbon Strategy also means that we should prune unnecessary and ineffectual legislation and not increase bureaucracy.
An ILO Convention guarantees to give registered professional port workers priority for this kind of work, and in Finland this is reinforced in a collective bargaining agreement.
The key factor is safety: would it be in the interests of health and safety at work if, after a hard day’s work, seafarers had to attend to the handling of yet another load in a foreign port? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the basic issue in this debate is about whether, in this area as in all others, competition and new services are a good thing.
We can, in fact, see how those European societies that have opened the doors to competition and new enterprise have seen services and businesses develop, with lower prices and better service for the consumer.
In actual fact, there have been more jobs.
When it comes to ports, which are so crucial to trade and development within the EU, it is obvious that the dynamic entailed in increased market access and in competition between and within ports will lead to a development of services.
What is at issue here is not only the whole flow of goods in Europe, but also opportunities for new regions to develop – new ports and new structures in our economy.
Anyone who maintains that everything is already perfect and that our ports throughout Europe operate exactly as they should need not be afraid of competition.
It contains the worst elements of another proposal which this Parliament has already rejected.
After that vote, instead of forgetting all about it or at least coming up with a decent proposal, the Commission took an even worse position.
My vote will be against this directive because it undermines the rights which this category of workers, port workers, acquired with much difficulty in the course of a long period of time.
I am going to vote against this directive because it reduces the health and safety in such delicate areas as ports.
I am going to vote against this directive because I believe in balanced competition where everybody gives his share, and not where it is always the workers and the lower paid who have to pay.
Let us give a strong signal that we are building a social Europe and not a system without a conscience.
To the millions of European workers, among them hundreds of Maltese workers represented by the General Workers Union, and who are also here today and who are affected by this directive, we want to let them know that we are solidly behind them. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a few technical considerations.
Above all, it seems that this proposal does not take account of the Green Paper being prepared by the Commissioner for Transport, Mr&#160;Barrot.
We should take the opportunity offered by this initiative to examine the new supply of services from the countries that have recently joined, and we should compare the national legal requirements on costs to be borne by the goods, so that free-market conditions can effectively prevail.
We must certainly compare the effects of state aid policies on competition and clarify the concept and practical applicability of such aid, particularly as regards concessionary leases and other means of allowing a provider of services to provide them as a public service subject to public rules.
Self-handling is a very serious threat to the small and medium-sized enterprises operating within our ports. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission has retabled the proposal for a directive on the liberalisation of port services, but without taking account of why it was rejected by Parliament in 2003.
The lack of policy will result in a long period of uncertainty and, of course, there will be no investment climate.
It also fails to take into account the specific characteristics of each individual port, not least ports in the outermost regions, where public services are vital to the survival of communities and where forced liberalisation can lead to socially and economically unacceptable monopolies.
The proposal for a directive before us is already unacceptable, but the report makes matters worse by increasing deregulation and by creating problems relating to security, to guarantees of public services, to the efficient operation of port services, and to the safeguarding of social rights, arising from the proposal to extend self-handling without any regulation.
I therefore believe, Commissioner, that this proposal for a directive should be withdrawn and subsequently replaced by another that takes account of Parliament’s recommendations&#160;… &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a maritime country, and port services represent a large proportion of our gross national product.
The port services market was liberalised soon after Estonia gained its freedom from the Soviet command economy.
The directive proposed by the European Commission broadly interferes in details, such as the licensing process and the duration of contracts, while leaving responsibility in important areas to the Member States.
Uniform and clear standards concerning quality, environment and safety would be more useful for improving competition in the internal market than detailed regulations.
I also share the fears of the port workers of old Europe.
It appears that the Commission wishes to achieve an increase in efficiency mainly at the expense of qualified workers.
I am certain that the intellectual potential of the European Union could produce a much better directive.
The Commission should make use of this opportunity.
Secondly, this proposal was re-presented with very strict limits on self-handling, which had undoubtedly been the subject of the most serious criticism at the time of first reading.
Thirdly, as someone who has exercised social responsibilities, I cannot all the same let it be said that this proposal would violate all the social rights existing in the port sector.
It was not the Commission’s intention to reduce the social rights of workers in this sector.
The Commission has even included in its proposal an obligation for all the providers of port services to receive an authorisation forcing them to comply with the minimum rules of Community social law.
Furthermore, Article 4 of the proposal constitutes a safeguard by stipulating that the directive will in no way affect the application of national legislation on the employment of personnel.
I will put it very simply, ladies and gentlemen: I would never have re-presented this proposal if I, personally, had felt it presented such serious risks as some of you believed it did.
Nevertheless, I must say that the debate has all the same been useful and it has shed some light on all the aspects of a port policy which cannot, in fact, be merely reduced to the subject of this text.
I am therefore well aware that a port policy cannot be reduced to a text of this type and, in this regard, the debate has been very useful.
We are also faced with the high-speed development of the technologies used in the ports, which also brings a factor into play not present in the situation that prevailed when this proposal for a directive was devised.
It is true that I will give my full agreement in advance if Parliament goes as far as to discuss the amendments tabled by its committee.
I am also in favour of the compromise amendments on the protection of investments made prior to the entry into force of the directive, provided, of course, that the stated aims, that is to say non-discriminatory and fair market access for all, are observed.
Well, you will not criticise me for having faith in Parliament when I say that, in this area and with regard to this text, I believed that the improvements made by Parliament were excellent and in fact made it possible to respond to a number of valid criticisms.
I am aware that there are two schools of thought among you.
I want to affirm my respect for Parliament: on the one hand, I have to respect the work done by your committee and, on the other hand, I also have to respect the opinion that will be expressed during a vote.
Be that as it may, Mr&#160;President – and I say this somewhat solemnly – on having listened carefully to this entire debate, it is quite clear that I will draw all the necessary conclusions from tomorrow’s vote by Parliament.
I wish to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and, once again, I undertake to do only one thing: to draw the necessary conclusions from your votes, once they have been cast. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The withdrawal of self-handling and the recognition of criteria relating to maritime safety and to professional qualifications in the selection procedure for service providers were advances on the first proposal for a directive.
European ports have to invest if they are to develop and respond to the increase in maritime traffic.
Our Community fleet needs efficient and competitive port services.
This proposal, while admittedly imperfect, would have brought legal certainty and stability to a booming sector.
If the text were to be rejected, then I should like the Commission to propose a Green Paper on port policy and to consult all of the parties concerned.
Although we did not see eye to eye in every respect, I do think we managed to agree on the essence, and we will in that way help bring about a European strategy on a subject that is only set to increase in importance in the next few years.
As you know, this discussion was sparked by the famous 2002 open skies judgment by the Court of Justice, from which it was evident that the European Community has exclusive competence in international airline services, more specifically automated booking systems, intra-Community ticket prices and the distribution of slots or landing rights.
This brings the total to 385 agreements, which means that there is still a long way to go before all 2&#160;000 agreements are amended.
I therefore make a case in my report for bringing all bilateral agreements into line with the open skies judgments as soon as possible in order to avoid legal uncertainty.
After all, the European Community can throw far more weight into the balance during negotiations than can, for example, a Member State on its own, but this does require common, cohesive vision.
I would stress that we should conclude agreements with our key partners and up-and-coming countries, such as China, the United States and Russia, as soon as possible, whilst not forgetting our immediate neighbours.
That is important for economic reasons, as well as political reasons in terms of aviation, such as safety and security, and that is why I have tabled an amendment on this very topic in readiness for today’s vote.
When Community agreements are concluded, it is crucial that the European Community should consider three major factors.
This means that aspects such as landing rights, rights to cabotage, equal establishment and ownership rights, as well as state aid must be taken into account.
I tabled an amendment before today’s sitting to ensure that the issue of state aid will be added to the list.
Secondly, my report underlines the fact that the opening up of markets should always be preceded by convergence of regulations, and the need for the degree of liberalisation to be coupled to fair and competitive conditions.
The European Union is either working on, or already has, rules on social matters surrounding safety, security, the environment, state aid and competition.
It is unacceptable that these high standards should be eroded by the advent of market operators bound by less stringent rules.
That is why I have tabled an amendment to include the convergence of regulations surrounding security, state support and competition in my report, so that regulatory convergence will take place in those areas too.
Thirdly and lastly, the Commission should also consult and inform all parties involved in the aviation industry and the European Parliament during the negotiations about the many fresh aviation agreements which will be concluded between Europe and the rest of the world in the next few years.
These three important factors are also reflected in Mr&#160;Zīle’s report with regard to Russia and China.
Here too, the principle of reciprocity must apply.
I think that we all had a common goal to give those from the European Commission that are conducting talks both with Russia and with China something to work with and, of course, also to send a political signal to the Council for the giving of a mandate.
With regard to relations with China, taking into account the rapidly growing Chinese aviation market in ten years’ time, for example, China will be the largest market in Asia for cargo flights we had several principles in our work.
Firstly, there needs to be swift progress in creating a comprehensive aviation agreement between the European Union and China.
Secondly, the agreement would have to be based, of course, on a horizontal agreement.
As Mr&#160;El Khadraoui, my colleague, just mentioned, we would very much like to see very rapid development on this foundation in relations with China.
Thirdly, at the same time as preparing a comprehensive agreement we would like to see an extension of the mandate, so that it would also cover requirements for the safety infrastructure of airports and for the quality of China’s air traffic control.
With regard to Russia, the most important aspect is that the Transport Committee regarded as totally unacceptable the practice whereby each year Russia, in contravention of the Chicago Convention, of which Russia itself is a signatory, collects from European Union airlines more than EUR 250&#160;million for overflights of Siberia.
Most of this money is invested in the Russian airline Aeroflot, which thus makes over USD&#160;100&#160;million profit per annum and is enabled to retain approximately 38% of the air transportation market between the European Union and Russia.
In addition, for many European airlines these payments create discriminatory obstacles when it comes to acquiring parts of the previously mentioned Chinese market.
We in the Transport Committee also considered that in talks between the European Union and Russia all European Union airlines must be given equal non-discriminatory legal status in order to enable them to acquire permanent take-off and landing rights at Russian airports.
I also wish to thank the members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism for having put a great deal of effort into this important debate.
It was very helpful to have Parliament enlighten me on the Community’s external policy in the field of air transport.
These two reports genuinely constitute an important contribution to the interinstitutional dialogue on Community action in this field.
The Member States have brought down the barriers of their national markets in order to have only one market now – the Community market – which is henceforth based on a full set of common rules, including in fields such as security, safety or air traffic management.
There are now 600&#160;million passengers and 60&#160;million tonnes of goods transported each year.
To go from a bilateral system between states to one of agreements negotiated at Community level provides new and significant prospects, thanks to the opportunities afforded by the large European market and to the opportunities for developing cooperation in the Community.
This transition from a bilateral system to a Community system also constitutes a legal requirement in terms of ensuring that our regulatory acquis is recognised and respected in the aviation sector.
Mr&#160;El Khadraoui’s report addresses a series of key problems for our policy.
Mr&#160;El Khadraoui, we are engaged in this task alongside the Member States in a spirit of close cooperation and using all the levers provided by the EU’s external policy.
Secondly, you highlighted the need – and I thank you for doing so – always to respect the following dual objective: the opening up of markets and regulatory convergence.
This priority accorded to regulatory convergence enables us to develop our international activities and the international activities of our industry in an environment of healthy and fair competition.
The efficiency and credibility of the Community in the negotiations depends on our doing so.
China and Russia are the subjects of two communications by the Commission, on which Mr&#160;Zīle’s report is based.
We are determined to put a stop to these charges, which clearly contravene all international rules, and, before contemplating a comprehensive aviation agreement with Russia, we need to resolve this specific issue by also taking into account Russia’s willingness to join the WTO.
The issue was brought up during the EU-Russia Summit in October following a letter sent by Mr&#160;Barroso to Mr&#160;Putin.
A solution needs to be found to this issue before Russia enters the WTO.
The prospect of an agreement with China is crucial for European operators in the long term.
Yet, our approach with regard to China needs to be gradual and methodical in order to strengthen our cooperation, while developing a level of regulatory convergence that is acceptable to our industry.
The first phase of negotiations must unquestionably be devoted to improving the regulatory framework and the conditions relating to commercial operation.
These aspects related to ‘doing business’ will be our priority.
In any event, Mr&#160;President, I should very much like to thank the European Parliament for its contribution to the success of these important negotiations, which will enable the European Union to increase the opportunities for its air transport industry, which I believe is an industry that deserves credit for creating jobs in Europe and for showing us a particularly dynamic side to Europe and a Europe in which the development of transport goes hand in hand with a high level of security and with high-quality transport.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism accepted his report as an appropriate compromise.
At the same time, it still remains to be decided how we are going to divide between Member States the number of flights that will now be negotiated with foreign partners, in cases when the number of flights is limited.
The Commission will soon have to submit a concrete paper on this sensitive issue to Parliament.
However, I do not agree with ideas of extending European or mainly Member State social rights to agreements concluded with third countries, and to aircraft flying under the flags of other nations.
Anything more than this even within the European Union would only increase the unnecessary publicity campaign against new Member States, under the pretext of the non-existent social dumping.
As a Member coming from a new Member State, it is particularly important to me that neighbouring regions, the Balkans and large market partners such as China, the USA and Russia enjoy priority.
The latter are key countries in economic, political and population terms, and also countries where aviation is developing at a very fast pace.
The report tabled by Mr&#160;El&#160;Khadraoui provides us with a basis for a common EU aviation policy towards the rest of the world.
Mr&#160;Zīle stressed in his report that the Committee on Transport and Tourism did not have access to the negotiating mandate beforehand, and I can assure the Commissioner that the Commission will be asked to be more open towards Parliament as far as negotiating mandates are concerned.
We believe that the position on Russia outlined in Parliament’s report is ‘friendly but firm’, and I am delighted that the Commissioner too has expressed his support for such an approach.
This holds particularly true when it comes to debates on the rules ensuring a common level playing field for competition in the field of aviation for the EU Member States, and also for Russian and Chinese operators.
I am therefore very much in favour of these two reports being adopted, and the rapporteurs deserve our thanks for their work.
Particularly intensive consideration has been given to two issues, namely flight safety and, of course, the protection of the environment.
Where flight safety is concerned, there is an urgent need for reciprocal rights of inspection, not least within the SAFA (Safety Assessment of Foreign Aircraft Programme), along with something that is an important step into the future, and one that we in this House have already discussed, that being the training of inspection staff and the exchange of information with third countries.
What that means is that industry has reduced emissions; private households have reduced emissions, and air transport will use them up unless we take action.
That is a question to which we will have to address ourselves if we want to take Kyoto seriously.
At the same time, we have to raise – not least at the international level – the issues of noise pollution and regionally-adapted bans on night flights, and make social dumping impossible.
Within the ‘open sky’, though – where important actions have already been taken – Europe needs to speak with confidence and a single voice if balance is to be maintained and no one nation or group of nations is to enjoy advantages in global competition that are denied to others. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, aviation in general has been a life-long interest of mine, if not to say passion, and it is 40&#160;years since I started flying myself.
For these reasons in particular, I will on the whole be happy to vote in favour of today’s reports.
As I see it, however, it is intolerable that what amounts to a threat should be used against a sovereign state and that one obstacle should effectively be removed in order to make way for another that in my opinion is much more serious.
The importance of these latter becomes particularly apparent in the event of accidents, poor weather conditions or strikes, or whenever there is an escalation of the terrorist threat.
Thirdly, there should be a guarantee that appropriate conditions will be in place for disabled air passengers both within and outside the EU, and indeed we held a debate on this matter only a few weeks ago.
I believe, Mr Zīle, that your work has been entirely positive, since it has allowed all of the parliamentary groups to appreciate the scope of this proposal and the need to create a genuine common air space in order to consolidate our position in the world.
The European Union must create closer ties with its partners, which include Russia and China.
Ladies and gentlemen, Russia is a priority for the European Union, not just as a neighbouring country, but also for a series of reasons relating specifically to it, both from economic and political points of view.
With 75% of external passenger traffic destined for the European Community, the European Union must be able to present our Russian partners with a proposal aimed at a future global agreement in the aviation sector, which, we believe, must be implemented in phases and once the problem of the payment of rights to fly over Siberia has been resolved.
Over the coming years, the Chinese giant is expected to show a sustained growth in the commercial aviation sector of between approximately 9% and 15%.
Furthermore, China is carrying out a process of reform and liberalisation in its aviation sector, facilitating foreign investments and implementing a significant airport construction programme.
Nevertheless, in order to begin negotiations successfully with our Chinese partners, China must firstly reach a horizontal agreement with the European Union and resolve the problem of overflying Siberia, which European airlines are obliged to do in order to reach China. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to seize the opportunity to sincerely congratulate the rapporteurs on the work they have done.
Reform of international air transport must also, I think, make it possible to establish a common aviation area with uniform standards.
Considerations such as the efficiency and safety of flights are not just a contribution to the EU’s neighbourhood policy, but are also very emphatically in our own interests.
What matters is not just compliance with common rules in the field of aviation safety, but also, and above all, with those relating to social and environmental policy.
There are few, if any, references to such rules in the bilateral agreements currently in force.
If all those who become active in the market do so subject to the same rules, then there is no likelihood, in future, of safety in the air losing out as a result of social dumping. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I can, of course, do no other than agree with those members of my own group who have already spoken, whilst extending my thanks to both rapporteurs.
There is one point I would particularly like to highlight.
I would like to point out, though, that not all the Member States take the same positive view as we do of this idea of a single aviation policy to the benefit of our airlines, those who work for them and those who travel with them, and there are airlines that are often happier to be represented in their dealings with third countries by their national governments rather than by the Commission.
That is why we must take care that the Commission’s negotiations with such third countries as, for example, the USA, provide the Member States with evidence that a single European aviation policy is preferable to 25 different policies on aviation with reference to third countries.
Several governments, though, remain to be persuaded that this is indeed the case. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs, Mr Zīle and Mr El Khadraoui.
Furthermore, I would like to congratulate the Commissioner, who, with admirable diligence, is successfully fulfilling the Community mandate and who, by gradually overcoming obsolete and increasingly inefficient bilateralism, is enabling us to take forward the initiative that often increases our credibility in the negotiations aimed at creating European single skies.
I would, however, like to stress certain aspects that are of concern to us; mainly the delay in the agreement with the United States.
Finally, I would like to say that, in the case of the application that is taking place within the agreements or the requirement for environmental rules and legislation on social rights, we would like this negotiation to move increasingly towards international rules that are closer to the stricter European rules, in other words, they should be harmonised upwards.
In this regard, I would like the Commissioner to tell us about the current situation of the conversion of the JAR OPS to EU OPS, that is to say, all the rules on flying times and rest times following the agreement reached in the Council, which we also believe to be important within the framework of the negotiation of the Union’s foreign policy in the aviation field. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the own-initiative report by Mr Zīle gives a complete picture of relations between the European Union and the People's Republic of China and Russia in the field of air transport.
However, the important thing is the differences which exist as far as flights over the territory of the two countries are concerned.
In both cases, the interventions by Commissioner Barrot are considered to be catalytic, although so far, in the second case, the issues pending still remain.
In the case of the People's Republic of China, I welcome its progress, especially its adaptation to the rules of good cooperation with the European Union, the main features of which are the opening up of air corridors by its government to European companies, in order to serve fully passengers and the movement of freight by increasing flights.
Finally, I agree with the rapporteur that an overall agreement with Russia should not be concluded unless a resolution is found to the problem of flights over Siberia which makes provision for the abolition of overflight charges.
The first is that, while we welcome the Commission’s move towards the progressive extension of Community agreements with third countries, the far-reaching effects on the transport sector as a whole, on the environment and on competition and the internal market prompt me to urge you to again consider whether foreign policy as it relates to air transport ought not really to be dealt with via the codecision procedure.
However, in addition to the EU aviation policy, we must be able to develop bilateral aviation agreements with third countries, as many of our partners have difficulties in committing to those common Union agreements.
Most importantly, the normal functioning of air traffic should be assured without useless confrontation while we are negotiating.
As the rapporteur has stated, we have noted the difficulties in negotiating a comprehensive agreement with Russia.
The charges imposed for flights over its territory are clearly against international law and are not acceptable.
As Russia seems to prefer bilateral cooperation, it is with happiness that I note that a more open attitude prevails in China.
I would hope that the Council would agree to start negotiations with China and give the Commission a proper mandate for achieving a common aviation agreement.
Once again, I wish to thank our two rapporteurs for their excellent work.
With certain partners not doing enough to guarantee a fair and efficient commercial environment, regulatory convergence is a priority.
In this regard, I wish to say to Parliament that the fact that we have a European strategy and that we can sign horizontal agreements is advantageous, because that enables us to influence international civil aviation law.
Finally, I should like to say that the progress of the ‘open skies’ negotiations with the United States should give the necessary impetus to the Community approach, which follows on from the Court of Justice judgment.
To call for full compensation for the property confiscated from the thousands of citizens of Italian origin expelled from Croatian territory since 1946, as a condition for Croatia’s accession; 3.
I therefore welcome this report and I support it extending as it does our framework trade and cooperation agreement to the new Member States of the Union.
I was glad to support this move and hope that we can move as quickly as possible to provide useful practical aid to the country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Catania report on citizenship of the Union, which we voted out a moment ago, can claim to be one of the most undoubtedly incoherent and ill-considered texts that this House has ever produced, which is saying something.
Moreover, the sovereignty of our Member States was fundamentally damaged in this report.
State citizenship and all associated rights, including the right to vote, must remain an exclusive competence of the Member States.
We had every right, and reason, to reject this idiotic report. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my extreme bitterness at the fact that the Catania report has not been adopted by Parliament.
My deepest regret is that my own group was divided on the vote on this report, which should have been accepted in the most genuine spirit of liberalism.
It is true that European citizenship is ‘work in progress’ and is additional to citizenship of one of the Member States, but it is a goal that we should be striving to attain through political actions.
In doing so, Europe must endow itself with the dignity it deserves, and it must attempt to interpret as well as it can the new needs and rights of citizenship, which emerge in any case even before the law can take account of them.
It is lamentable that this report does no more than discuss the situation of immigrants and has nothing to say about the needs of Europe’s citizens.
Sinn Féin strongly believes that migrant workers should have full access to civil and human rights and that Member States should have a fair and equality-focused process of naturalisation for those migrant workers who choose to avail themselves of such mechanisms.
Firstly, the demand for a form of European citizenship that includes the right of all residents of a country, irrespective of their nationality, to vote and stand for election, in local, national and European elections.
For all of these reasons, it is a good thing that this report has been rejected. &#160;&#160; The report is aimed at strengthening citizenship of the Union by making it independent of national citizenship and by requiring harmonised rules for the granting of national citizenship.
We, for our part, believe, however, that citizenship is one of the cornerstones of the sovereignty of nation states and that each Member State must be free to make its own decisions about granting citizenship.
Of course, there may be arguments in favour of reforming the rules concerning the acquisition of national citizenship following a fairly long period of continuous residence in a country and concerning the opportunity to vote and eligibility to be a candidate in local, regional and national elections.
The issue of citizenship of the Member States is, however, exclusively an issue for the countries concerned, applying their own legislation.
It is up to each Member State to establish the conditions under which citizenship is acquired or forfeited, as well as the effect citizenship is to have.
Moreover, the report contains a number of wordings concerning the introduction of an EU tax, uniform European party lists for elections to the European Parliament, the significance of a European Constitution in strengthening European solidarity and common bases for incorporating the European dimension into the curriculum of every school. &#160;&#160; .The concept of ‘citizenship of the Union’, which is not even qualified by the word ‘European’, is a device designed to destroy our national rights to identity and sovereignty.
Thus, Article 17 of the report, which calls on the Member States to grant the right to vote, and stand for election, in national elections to any resident who is a ‘citizen of the Union’, ‘irrespective of nationality’, would enable a Czech living in France to take part in the election of the President of the Republic.
An increasing number of French people, in particular, are demanding that the nationality code be reformed on the basis of the principle ‘you either inherit French nationality or you earn it’. &#160;&#160; Even though Europe is experiencing a crisis both of representation, seen particularly in the French and Dutch rejections of the European Constitution, and of democratic participation, with growing numbers of people staying away from European elections, year after year since the 1992 Treaty of Maastricht it has not ceased trying to force us to swallow the pill of European citizenship.
We voted against these elements of the text, but finally voted for the report in pursuing the better course of the migrant people in Europe.
The report's key issue is that EU citizens should be able to vote in national elections in Member States other than their own, provided they are resident there.
The attacks in London, the murder of the filmmaker Theo van Gogh, and the street battles in France are evidence of the fact that we must, in future, carefully examine those who seek citizenship as to their capacity for integration into the majority culture.
Acquiring citizenship is an exclusively national issue, a keystone of each Member State’s sovereignty and, in my view, non-negotiable.
I therefore welcome the rejection of the report. &#160;&#160; It is a human right to be able to participate actively in the democratic process, and we are vigorously endeavouring to bring about a situation in which everyone has this right.
The eventual rejection of this report does I think reflect a mature decision on the part of Parliament, much as I still believe that these issues need to be examined and will return to the house before long. &#160;&#160; – ‘European citizenship’ is an ideological construct of no practical value, given that citizenship is granted by the Member States.
The Euro-lust dominating the report is such that it goes as far – and this is unprecedented anywhere in the world – as establishing the right to acquire non-existent 'European' citizenship of persons who have been residents 'over a long period of time' and who will, however, be deprived of citizenship and rights in the countries in which they reside.
We unreservedly support and are fighting with immigrants for the safeguarding and broadening of full political and social rights, such as the right to vote and stand for election, full employment, wage, insurance and pension rights, the granting of citizenship to persons who have been resident over a long period of time and so forth.
It was a matter of particular concern to us in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that it should be made clear that prostitutes’ clients should also have cause to fear punishment if they are aware of forced prostitution.
Our intention in this is that it should be spelled out that forced prostitution must not only be fought against by means of the law, but must also be treated as repugnant by society at large, and we are particularly pleased that this House has taken note of our 8 March initiative against forced prostitution during the football World Cup, which is being played in Germany this year.
We are strongly against the trafficking of all people and slavery, but we do not feel that it is the competence of the EU to interfere in domestic issues, and in particular we do not feel that the EU should be creating a policy regarding prostitution.
We are strongly against the trafficking of all people and slavery, but we do not feel that it is the competence of the EU to interfere in domestic issues, and in particular we do not feel that the EU should be creating a policy regarding prostitution.
With a view to giving legal effect to the demands being made and so raising the profile of the issue, the Swedish Conservative delegation also wishes to emphasise that the issue of trafficking should be dealt with in the European Parliament’s Committee on Legal Affairs rather than in its Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality.
We are, however, opposed to proposals in the report that interfere in the Member States’ areas of competence, for example that of how the police are organised. &#160;&#160; The own-initiative report concerns important issues, and the June List supports many of the basic ideas that permeate the report.
Sexual exploitation and human trafficking must be combated.
The June List believes, however, that, on these issues too, each Member State must itself be permitted to choose its method and way of working.
Consequently, any measures taken in this regard should be consistent with the overall strategy against organised crime.
Therefore, this should not be used as a pretext for pursuing the objective of full communitarisation in this area.
Rather, we support effective national policies and strong inter-governmental co-operation to stamp out this evil trade. &#160;&#160; Trafficking in women and the sexual exploitation of children are increasingly forming a sizeable parallel economy in Europe.
According to the United Nations, nearly 4 million women and children are being abused or sexually assaulted.
The growth in sex tourism and in demand for children for economic exploitation (as beggars, pickpockets, dealers, moonlighters, and so forth.), are all forms of crime and exploitation which in most cases are in the hands of organised criminal gangs.
Trafficking of human beings for sexual exploitation is a violation of human rights and between 600&#160;000 and 800&#160;000 men, women and children are trafficked across international borders each year.
Approximately 80% of those cases are women and girls and 50% are minors.
I agree that data on trafficking is lacking and that there is a need for a more harmonised approach between Member States on how data should be collated and, equally, that data on children should be kept separate from the data on men and women.
Trafficking in human beings, which is controlled by a real Mafia-like multinational of organised crime, feeds on the desperation and poverty of men and women who flee their own countries of origin in search of jobs and a better life in the rich countries of the world.
Although trafficking in women and children is mainly directed towards sexual exploitation, it is also, unfortunately, used for other purposes that are equally despicable and degrading for a human being: forced labour, slavery and – something I find even more ignominious – the export of organs.
As is abundantly clear from so many parliamentary reports and so many journalistic reportages, the fight against trafficking of human beings will have little chance of success without cooperation at Member State level.
I therefore feel that greater cooperation, improved coordination and stronger determination are required. &#160;&#160; Estimates of the number of women and children who fall victim to trafficking across the world vary from 700&#160;000 to 4 million a year.
My colleague’s report takes as its starting point the tragic fact that despite the measures so far taken by the Member States and by the European Union itself, trafficking in human beings is today considered the fastest-growing criminal activity in comparison to other forms of organised crime.
Indeed, while the causes have been identified: poverty, social exclusion, unemployment, the lack of border controls allowing the development of underground networks of all kinds of organised crime, violence against women, education, the explosion of pornography or the disappearance of moral reference points, the solutions proposed in this report are very vague, general and incomplete.
Their abolition with the Schengen Agreements was one of the main reasons for the development of this entire sex industry in Europe. &#160;&#160; There is a link between combating, on the one hand, human trafficking and, on the other hand, the demand for related services from those who buy sex.
This report demonstrates how cooperation will lead to better results than the individual Member States acting alone, and I am pleased to support it.
We are strongly against the trafficking of all people and slavery, but we do not feel that it is the competence of the EU to interfere in domestic issues, and in particular we do not feel that the EU should be creating a policy regarding prostitution.
All the items mentioned in the report have already been covered by UK legislation, and it is these laws which should be utilised fully rather than creating yet more EU legislation, which would have resulted in negative consequences. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;There is no denying the fact that the future of air transport is currently at a crossroads.
This is a subject covered in the report on relations with the Russian Federation and China in the field of air transport.
This means that particular importance should be attached to the closing comment of the El Khadraoui report.
The place where a person is deemed to work when carrying out cabotage operations in an EU Member State is the Member State in question, which means that working conditions should be of an appropriate standard.
Furthermore, cabotage in the field of air transport should be regarded as employment within the European Union.
It would then be possible, both in this and other sectors, to start negotiations on the opening up of the market and on the liberalisation of cabotage.
This approach could also open up fresh opportunities for negotiations on the directive on services, including services of public interest.
Adopting these two reports therefore provides us with a fresh opportunity for negotiations on both air transport and other matters.
This common external policy can be set up either by adapting the existing bilateral agreements to Community law, or by concluding new agreements between the Community and third countries.
It has become clear in the various discussions in committee, however, that this strategy cannot develop without agreements with the USA, the Russian Federation and China.
The vote on the report by Mr Zīle on relations with China and Russia in the field of air transport forms part of this context.
These countries share high levels of growth in the aviation sector and face challenges relating to consolidation, liberalisation and modernisation.
We never lose sight of the specific nature of these two countries and raises issues such as the abolition of overflight charges, and the need to extend the scope of the mandate to cover questions concerning airport and air safety infrastructures.
Would you please make a note of that? &#160;&#160; That will be corrected, Mr Poignant. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would ask that the damage sustained by the Parliament building as a result of yesterday’s demonstration be paid for by those who caused it. &#160;&#160; Mr Rübig, that has already been discussed at yesterday’s meeting of the Bureau.
The fact is, though, that there was up to a 50% shortfall in supply in some EU Member States on the first and second days of January this year.
A diplomatic initiative on the part of the Commission and the Austrian Presidency of the Council helped to put a speedy end to this situation.
This leads me on to mention Moldova and Russia, and to ask both of them to return to the negotiating table in search of a longer-term solution to the problems existing between them.
Firstly, there is a need for diversification in the sources from which natural gas is supplied and the routes by which it is transported.
Plans are in hand for a series of new pipelines with the capacity to transport a total of 140 billion cubic metres per annum, and these must be built without delay.
Projects are up and running in certain countries to establish new terminals or extend existing plant.
The European Union should aim for a five-fold increase in the quantity of LNG that it imports by 2010, which will enable it to receive supplies from other regions not capable of being connected to the EU by means of a pipeline.
There is, thirdly, a need for greater transparency on the hydrocarbon markets in order to make prices less volatile and to ensure stable prices that reflect the market, while also improving the quality of information on the quantities of natural gas imported, and in this a considerable level of investment is essential.
One option, to be sure, is greater integration of the supply network in the European Union, which would have the effect of simplifying the exchange of gas within the Community, thus reducing the dependency of individual Member States on certain states by which gas is supplied or through which it has to pass.
Another short-term instrument is without doubt the storage of gas reserves to bridge the gap when supplies are interrupted for up to two months, although account will need to be taken of specific national requirements, such as whether to use geological voids, power stations or industrial premises for storage purposes.
Europe must redouble its efforts to be equal to the challenges presented by energy policy, for by 2030 the world will be using 50% more energy and Europe will become even more markedly dependent on the importation of fossil energy sources.
There are at present great disparities between the Member States in terms of energy efficiency, defined as energy consumption per unit of the gross domestic product.
As our basis for this, we can take the agreement between Parliament and the Council on the directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services.
Willingness to cooperate is an absolutely essential element in securing energy supply.
The current price of oil is more than USD 60 per barrel.
The gas dispute hit the headlines at the beginning of this year when Russia stopped its supply to Ukraine for a day and a half.
Commercial negotiations between the two sides will continue in order to find a price adjustment formula that is mutually acceptable.
We have also seen the repercussions internally in Ukraine, with the vote of no confidence in the government last week.
So, what are the lessons the EU should draw from this dispute?
Firstly, in the context of this particular dispute, the EU was, and should be, proactive.
Secondly, the dispute has underlined the usefulness of the energy dialogues with Russia and Ukraine.
At the same time, it clearly underlines the need to give greater momentum to dialogue.
Thirdly, this dispute has underlined the importance of and the need for a clearer, more cohesive and proactive EU-wide energy security policy.
I should like to stress the importance of developing a common approach to energy, which was highlighted at the Hampton Court informal summit and in the meeting between the Presidency and the Commission at the start of the Austrian Presidency.
In his speech today, the President-in-Office clearly indicated the importance the Presidency attaches to this particular issue and that many concrete and clear proposals have been made.
More generally, this incident has thrown into sharp focus our increasing dependency on external energy supply.
This external energy dimension should be based on a diversification of different energies, as well as on different energy sources, routes, suppliers and transit networks.
There is a clear need for more investment in LNG terminals, in gas pipelines for diversification of supplies and gas storage facilities.
While the EU has been engaged, via its technical assistance programmes, in promoting the development of new supply routes, and upgrading and enhancing existing routes, it is clear that other major energy consumers also take a very proactive and political approach to this issue.
There are also, of course, the internal aspects of an EU energy policy to consider: firstly, the need to ensure that an internal EU-wide energy market is a practical reality.
Then there is the need to facilitate the necessary infrastructure investments required to ensure that the various national energy markets in the EU can really become more integrated.
We also need to ensure that sufficient policy and financial support is given to research in priority areas and to ensure that more efficient energy technologies, including cleaner coal and renewable energy technologies, can penetrate the market.
We need more actively to pursue policies and measures that can achieve real energy savings and efficient use of energy and thus diminish our external dependency.
Finally, we need to improve energy security measures to enhance the solidarity mechanisms to face the challenges of possible disruptions to energy supplies.
One should keep in mind that this particular dispute, as it affected the EU, was resolved in a very short time, but we must be prepared for longer-lasting disputes.
While it is true that energy is just a commodity, it is a commodity that is fundamental for our continued economic development and wellbeing.
The PPE-DE Group welcomes the fact that the security of energy supply and sustainability of energy production and consumption are one of the Austrian Presidency’s priorities.
The recent energy crisis between Russia and Ukraine has exposed the vulnerability of many Member States of the European Union that are to a dangerous extent dependent on one supplier.
It is absolutely essential, therefore, for the EU to extend joint action to the energy field and take steps to create a proactive energy policy.
It is clear that all the efforts taken at national level are not sufficient as they do not guarantee the long-term interests of the Union as a whole.
Action at EU level is therefore clearly justified, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
We should, however, move beyond that.
One of the main principles of European integration – that of solidarity – encompasses the obligation to assist all those States that are in danger or in difficulty, and that includes problems relating to energy supply shortages.
The Union should take concrete steps towards the diversification of energy sources and supply and the sharing of reserves.
The EU should propose a code of conduct on relations with its main energy suppliers.
We should make all the necessary efforts to establish new sources of financing for all the undertakings aimed at increasing the EU’s energy security, both from the EIB and from the EU budget itself.
Close cooperation in the energy field and the possibility of sharing energy reserves constitute one of the most effective and indispensable confidence-building measures both within the Union and between the Union and its neighbourhood.
The PPE-DE Group will be tabling a resolution on this for the next part-session in Brussels. &#160;&#160; .
Secondly, we should turn our attention to infrastructure, and give thought – not as a state, but with our firms and businesses – to having the infrastructure owned and managed on a common basis, so as to avoid monopolies.
Thirdly, we have to do something about the situation in which the WTO has procedures for settling disputes on everything from textiles to shrimps, but not on products as important as gas and oil.
Fifthly, all the Member States must diversify and come up with proposals on the basis of which a single European project can come into being.
We need Russia to treat its neighbours fairly, for they are our neighbours too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, energy resources are among the fundamental economic and production factors ensuring the competitiveness of an economy and the wellbeing of people.
Individual countries are easier to influence than the European Union as a whole.
By constantly emphasising the importance of Russia as a strategic partner and its exceptional position among other countries, the European Union is granting Russia concessions.
However, the recent issues with gas supply between Russia and Ukraine show that Russia may resort to the same tactics in supplying gas to European Union Member States.
The alternative sources of energy which must be used in order to avoid absolute dependency on Russia, that is, Norwegian gas resources, are limited and will not be able to meet the growing demands of the EU economy in the future.
As I see it, what this situation has shown us was that we in the European Union cannot regard Ukraine as nothing more than a safe transit country, but must rather, by means of energy policy, help it to free itself from dependence on Russia and thereby improve its prospects for the future.
If we want to learn the right lessons from this, then we must, I believe, be much more consistent in doing as Commissioner Piebalgs suggested at the time he took office.
It is estimated that in 2030 humankind will still be producing 80% of its energy using fossilised fuels.
A quarter of the gas is in Russia, and another quarter in regions less stable, in Iran and Qatar.
The project is understandable, because some of the countries the pipeline now passes through are hostile towards Russia.
We in Finland have not had the slightest problem with the gas supply in 40 years.
Our group supports good partnership relations and cooperation on energy with Russia. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the recent events referred to by the international press as a ‘Cold War’ between Ukraine and Russia over gas, and the less recent project involving the construction of a gas pipeline between Germany and Russia, bypassing the Baltic countries, including Poland, are ample proof that certain countries are using electricity and gas supply networks, especially the latter, as political weapons in their relations with others.
The Member States expect the Community to provide them with assistance in finding a solution to this problem.
The Community should pursue a cohesive and integrated policy on the above-mentioned supply networks, as well as on natural disasters, pandemics and the terrorist threat.
It is unacceptable for one Member State, Germany for example, to form a coalition with Russia on such matters, since this harms the interests of other Member States, including those that only recently joined the EU.
A passive attitude on the part of the EU means that it consents to the principle of solidarity being destroyed, and that effectively it has no influence when it comes to the economic and political problems that are of real importance for Europe.
The recent gas crisis is a test of sorts for the European Union.
Its effects were intended to be felt, and indeed were felt not only by Ukraine and Moldova, but also by eight EU Member States, including Germany, France and Italy.
I shall take the liberty of making one final comment namely that the House’s difficulty in adopting a common resolution on this matter is an embarrassment for Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
Current international political events and also economic factors, including the constant increase in the price of oil, are forcing the European Union to sit up and take notice of a situation that is both obvious and familiar: we have a structural energy supply problem and an increasing level of dependence.
World demand for energy is rising, global resources are not limitless and, in any case, our Union does not have enough to meet its own needs.
Recent events have shown how the energy supplies on which our economy is currently based can be put in jeopardy, and that is a risk that we absolutely must not take.
It is essential to promote a closer international synergy, including through signed agreements such as the European Energy Charter, which creates a cooperation framework between Europe, Russia and Mediterranean countries.
Furthermore, we must at last hold that complex and comprehensive debate on choosing technologies for the future and on the production and use of alternative and renewable energies.
Despite the various crises, some of them recent, that have marked Europe’s economy over the last 40 years, this debate has, unfortunately, not yet been held.
This is a delay, a failing and a gap that we must try to make up for as quickly and as urgently as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Piebalgs for his role in convening the Gas Coordination Group and thereby making a major contribution towards resolving the dispute between Naftagas and Gazprom earlier this month.
This situation between Russia and Ukraine has served as a wake-up call to those who may not have been aware how dependent the EU Member States are on imported fuels in general and on natural gas from Russia in particular.
However, it is important that we retain a sense of proportion about this matter.
The trade in gas between Russia and EU Member States remains commercially viable just as long as each has something the other wants.
The import dependence of the EU Member States and the related increasing dependence on natural gas is hardly a secret.
Ten years ago, I submitted a report to Parliament on prospects for gas supply in Europe and was criticised by the industry for suggesting that we could become over-dependent on gas if it provided over 25% of our energy requirements.
We must take note of Russia as it flexes its muscles internationally, but I suggest that a measured, practical approach to maintaining diversity of supply and encouraging appropriate investments to that end must be our response as a long-term solution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, in twenty years or so we will actually be 90% dependent on imports of gas.
The amount of gas used by the Member States and stocks vary greatly; in other words, the degree to which one is susceptible to a crisis varies very much.
Of course, in business deals it is permitted to grant discounts to good, regular customers in general, and that happens in many other sectors, but it obviously depends on the relationship between the seller and the buyer.
The situation with regard to energy in the European Union is continually on the verge of a crisis.
This will provide not only enormous opportunities for the European energy industry, including renewables, but also a window of opportunity for tackling climate change, boosting growth and creating new jobs.
In order to achieve this we want more transparency, better regulation, a renovated and functioning grid, a European energy strategy, debate on self-sufficiency and solidarity between Member States, and rules that enable consumers to decide on their own consumption in a workable way.
We therefore welcome the green paper as well as the Presidency’s programme.
If, so to speak, a political course is set that makes this sort of crisis inevitable, without the attempt being made to find a solution in good time, then both governments have been negligent.
Although I do indeed welcome the Commissioner’s announcement that a Green Paper will be appearing, I do of course hope that it will not contain such old ideas as the negotiation of codes of conduct for the countries by which energy is produced and those through which it passes, new pipelines or even nuclear power.
Rather, I believe that we have to rely, as is already being done in many countries, on other sources, such as biomass, the sun, wind, water, geothermal energy and cogeneration, while also, at the same time, saving energy, making more efficient use of it, and reducing subsidies for long-established fossil fuels.
The supply of energy is a service of public general interest, and we ought perhaps to consider whether responsible policies ought not to be regarded as a higher priority than attempts at liberalisation or the use of liberalisation measures as a solution to this problem. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the lack of a common and long-term energy security strategy is proof not only of the EU’s short-sightedness, but even that a conflict of interests exists between its Member States.
One of the reasons why oil prices have tripled is that the EU has failed to adopt an intelligent energy strategy.
The rise in oil prices works to the advantage of the large fuel companies, but it works to the disadvantage of the EU Member States and of the citizens of these Member States.
It is a mistake for individual Member States to attempt to reach an agreement with Russia, as Germany has done, sacrificing the interests of the Baltic States, Poland, Austria and other Member States in the process.
The efficiency of a system can be measured by its resistance to crises in those countries and regions which are most dependent on one supplier, or which have the worst transmission and distribution systems, or the highest generation costs in relation to national income.
With its interruption to the gas supply in the very middle of winter, Russia reminded not only Ukraine but also the world’s energy markets, that power currently lies with energy suppliers.
I believe that recent events give the Commission special authorisation to implement the legislation that has been passed, to implement decisions for the acquisition of alternative, energy-efficient resources and the creation of a truly liberalised energy market, and to secure the integration of European energy networks.
Naturally, today almost all the speakers have mentioned this point: the need for a genuinely common energy policy for the European Union’s common market, which would facilitate long-term political stability not only in Europe but also in the global energy market. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union is in a state of shock following the crisis that has taken place between Ukraine and Russia.
This is largely because, to date, even at time of intense internal upheaval, Russia had always shown itself to be a reliable energy partner, and at no point in the past have the Member States of the Union seen their supply of gas interrupted or reduced.
Those three days of crisis were sufficient to bring countries such as Italy to the point of releasing their strategic reserves and, above all, for the Union as a whole to realise once again that its supply system is extremely vulnerable.
If you want to commit energy suicide, you are free to do so, but your sacrifice must be an individual one.
Let us not wait until there is another crisis and then take measures that are more drastic and that may well be too late. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I must keep it brief.
My concern is that attention be called to the foreign policy aspects of what we have witnessed in recent weeks, when Russia threatened to cut off gas supplies to Ukraine.
There are three conclusions that are important for us where those foreign aspects are concerned.
Secondly, we must reconsider the pipeline situation in Europe.
First of all, the European Union must promote the more efficient use of energy in its external policy by making this one of the priorities of the EU’s Neighbourhood Programme.
It may even be worthwhile to establish the criteria for the energy efficiency as a condition for the provision of European Union support.
In so doing, we will also facilitate democratisation processes in the neighbouring countries; our experience with reforms in Lithuania shows that modernisation of the economy provides the stable background needed for the development of democratic processes.
First, Ukraine had a contract, signed in 2004 and lasting until 2009.
One cannot speak of market prices and a government-controlled monopoly in the same breath.
What prompts us to go further down this road is the gas issue, Russia, Ukraine, and the problem of supply, as well as oil prices, climate change and many other considerations too.
Your House will have an opportunity to discuss the details of this later on.
As I said in my statement on Moldova, we have sought in many respects to give priority to that country in our neighbourhood policy.
It remains for me to observe that, over the coming years and decades, Russia and Russian natural gas will become the backbone of the European Union’s gas supply.
On the security dimension, I would like to mention two particular aspects.
Firstly, enlargement definitely brought new challenges for the European Union.
Security of supply was certainly a far bigger challenge for the new Member States than for the older Member States.
Secondly, the paper we are preparing at this stage has two authors: Mrs Ferrero-Waldner and myself.
As I mentioned, this crisis was very short and some speakers referred to it as a mini- or even non-existent crisis.
One should not underestimate the importance of the situation, because some countries did feel an impact.
However, in some countries economic measures were taken in respect of the supply of gas.
At the same time, we should act immediately.
Unfortunately, it is true that energy issues have been neglected.
Therefore, we really need to help not only to deal with external supply issues but also with energy consumption, because the energy intensity in those countries, and energy losses, are tremendous, and no country could bear the energy costs arising from that situation.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has done a good job in Ukraine, but it could intensify its activities.
I should like to thank you once again for this debate.
Let me also thank the members of the Committees on Agriculture and Rural Development, International Trade, Budgetary Control and Development for their strong commitment, their helpful input and the very constructive debate.
The reform of the common market organisation that has remained practically unchanged for almost four decades is a major undertaking; in fact this reform is long overdue.
The list of legitimate interests that need to be met is very long: the hundreds of thousands of farmers who grow sugar beet in the community; the sugar producing and consuming industries and their workers; the consumers; and, last but not least, our trade partners, including those countries enjoying longstanding preferences.
From the beginning, I have been aware of the need to strike a fine balance between the different needs and the different demands.
I believe that the present proposals in their entirety respond to the needs of the Community.
They are the result of careful reflection and are in tune in the CAP reform package and our international commitments.
The reform package seeks to give the European sugar sector a viable and competitive future.
It offers long-term certainty and generous assistance to help both farmers and sugar producers with the process of adjustment.
By acting now, we will have the funds available to ease the painful restructuring process that is absolutely vital and at the same time compensate our farmers.
Delaying this necessary reform would result in nothing but a more drastic reduction of Community production and a much more severe restructuring process.
Finally, we have to ensure that the European Union remains an attractive market for developing countries, and offer our ACP partners the necessary financial assistance to adapt to these unavoidable changes.
Much useful work has been done since the first communication from the Commission was presented in the summer of 2004, both in the European Parliament and in the Council.
Most obvious is that the entire reform is built on the basis of a restructuring fund, which was an idea originally introduced by the European Parliament in the report by Mr&#160;Fruteau and Mr Daul at the beginning of last year.
I want to express my sincere thanks to the European Parliament for its cooperation. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is today faced with the necessity of reforming its sugar sector.
It is necessary because we need to bring the common organisation of the market in sugar into line with the guiding principles of the new common agricultural policy.
With this in mind, it is important that the changes to the European sugar sector do not result in the dismantling of our common organisation of the market in sugar, in the gradual closure of our production capacity or in the sacrifice of our producers and those of the poorest countries in consequence of an uncontrolled opening of world trade.
This twin perspective, which makes for balance, is the common thread running through the three reports on which the European Parliament is to vote this week and which were adopted almost unanimously by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 29&#160;November last.
These texts are the fruit of several months’ discussions and hearings in the Committee on Agriculture and of exchanges of views with yourself, Commissioner, with your services and with the various parties concerned in the industry.
They represent a compromise negotiated and approved by a large majority of the political groups in this Parliament.
The first is the introduction of flexible regulation of the sugar market.
Regulation, too, however, to avoid the disastrous consequences of a totally deregulated sugar market.
Internally, this means maintaining the intervention system for a time so as to guarantee market stability during the next four years, which we all know will be difficult economically.
It is in fact essential today that we take account of the damage caused by the uncontrolled opening of trade, as the recent example of the western Balkans has shown.
With this in mind, in order to avoid any incentive for fraud once the ‘Everything But Arms’ initiative has taken full effect, the Committee on Agriculture argues in particular for the establishment of a commercial safeguard in the form of a safeguard clause limiting exports according to the net exporter principle.
This arrangement would enable us to prevent destructive triangular trade while ensuring for the least developed countries that their local populations working in the sugar-producing sector will actually benefit from the preferential trade regime with the European Union.
While the establishment of trade regulation will allow us to stabilise markets and avoid excessive price fluctuations in the future, it must in fact be accompanied by measures to cushion the reform’s impact on the communities most affected by cessation of activity, above all those which are most fragile.
Finally, to avoid the most fragile regions being the main casualties of the restructuring of Community production, it is essential that the Member States should still have the final say over whether production ceases or continues on their territory.
I am sure that such schemes, for which Parliament has called, will enable the people of those regions who make their living from sugar cane to look to the future with greater equanimity.
In a world context characterised, on the one hand, by rising oil prices and, on the other, by the need to fight greenhouse gases, alcohol production in the sugar sector in fact offers a major asset for the development of alternative energies.
In view of the impact of the reform of the COM on production levels, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development therefore proposes anticipating these trends by means of a proactive policy involving both the agricultural and the industrial aspects: the agricultural by means of measures to improve access to aid for energy crops in particular, the industrial by adapting the restructuring scheme to encourage the development of bioethanol distilleries.
Finally, the fourth and last major thrust of our work, but not the least: prices.
By contrast to the Commission’s original proposals, which would have a drastic effect on the sector, the rural fabric and the developing countries, the Committee on Agriculture in the end came out in favour of a slower and more moderate 30% reduction in sugar prices over four years.
Such a level of price reduction would guarantee the reform’s economic effectiveness while helping to soften its impact on the sector’s players.
In so doing, it would better guarantee continued activity in the production regions, safeguarding hundreds of thousands of jobs directly and indirectly related to the sector.
While the real purpose of that agreement was to arrive at a common political line, the way it was immediately exploited by the various signatories in the media as meaning that the reform had been settled ahead of schedule nevertheless sends a clear message: I believe it expresses the desire of the Commission and the Council to bypass the European Parliament, whose prior opinion is nevertheless mandatory before any decision is taken.
In this respect, I find the procedure totally unacceptable and it must be condemned in the strongest terms.
The compromise marks an appreciable shift towards the more moderate and more balanced measures proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the four major topics I have just mentioned.
In terms of regulation, it takes up the idea of maintaining the intervention system for four years, before moving to a reference price, which will mark the introduction of the logic of the market into the common organisation of the market in sugar.
While the measures proposed are different, their philosophies converge along the lines of adapting the ‘Everything But Arms’ initiative.
Concerning the implementation of European solidarity, the Council backs the increase in aid to farmers, proposing a compensation of 64.2% of lost earnings instead of the 60% initially proposed.
Parliament’s proposal for a partial coupling and a modulation of aid for the less-favoured regions was not adopted, however.
Finally, in the field of prices, the 36% reduction over four years envisaged by the Council is not so quick or drastic as the initial proposals and is entirely consistent with the work done by the European Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture.
Despite this undeniable progress, which must be welcomed, a number of proposals have not been taken up, in particular as regards tightening up the conditions that manufacturers will have to satisfy in order to qualify for restructuring aid.
It is in this regard particularly regrettable that the Council has up until now disregarded all the social criteria that must be complied with and the fact that it is ultimately up to the Member States to approve or otherwise any cessations of production.
The European Union really will have to find the resources necessary to remedy this situation, which contrasts with what the Heads of State or Government have repeatedly said about helping the poorest countries to develop.
It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministers of Agriculture will have to continue their efforts during the February negotiations if they are to reach a final agreement that is acceptable to all.
Throughout the discussions the ACP countries have made the case for a gradual price cut, an end to dumping and for additional long-term funding to help them deal with what is a drastic reform.
The ACP Sugar Protocol countries supplied tropical sugar when Europe needed it.
In addition, Commissioner Mandelson warned last night in the WTO debate that the figure of EUR&#160;190&#160;million, which the Commission has proposed, is now threatened by a 20% cut agreed in the EU’s budget negotiations.
Almost all of the world’s least developed countries are members of the ACP group.
There should be no delay in the fulfilment of Europe’s commitments to provide duty-free, quota-free access on a stable and long-term basis to LDCs.
LDCs are set to lose EUR&#160;783&#160;million of potential earnings in the first year alone.
In line with the objective of having coherence between agriculture and development priorities, I would recommend support for amendments on the elimination of export subsidies and the abolition of C sugar exports.
This had three main elements.
We proposed that the European Union restrict imports more efficiently and that sugar producing farmers in the European Union receive higher compensation.
For instance, we would like to make it possible for sugar beet growers to be able to receive up to a fifty percent share from the restructuring fund instead of the current ten percent.
For instance, even the United States of America restricts imports under preferential conditions.
I applauded because I have wanted reform in this sector ever since I read the 1991 report by the Court of Auditors.
I have sought changes in the regime from a budget control point of view, from a budget point of view, from a development point of view, from a WTO point of view and from a consumer point of view, which puts me at odds with Mr&#160;Fruteau, for whom I have the greatest respect and whom I genuinely admire.
We should not vote for lesser price cuts and increased compensation and less quota cuts than those proposed by the Commission.
All ACP producers were being offered the same.
What we are trying to do to the least developed countries is unacceptable.
The Commission, represented by Commissioner Fischer Boel, Parliament and, above all, the Council bear the brunt of responsibility for this high-wire performance.
Some 350&#160;000 farming families and well over 100&#160;000 workers in the relevant economic sectors of the EU are affected by it.
Many sugar beet farmers and worker in sugar factories still want to know why it is so necessary to reform, and on such a massive scale, a sugar market organisation that has stood the test of decades.
The answer is a very simple one: it is because the international commitments made long ago mean that, in the absence of reform, the future of beet and cane sugar cultivation in the European Union will be very much in doubt after 2009.
Reform of the common market organisation for sugar gives us the chance to keep a great deal of production in Europe, even though it will result in painful reductions in income for sugar producers.
It is unfortunate – as Mr&#160;Fruteau indeed said – that, following the Council’s agreement of 24 November, the Commission and the Council of Ministers gave the impression that that had put the seal on the sugar market organisation.
The fact is, though, that this agreement was no more and no less than a declaration of intent on the part of the Council.
I am glad to see that the Council of Ministers has, to a significant degree, taken on board the demands we made in our motion for a resolution on 10 March 2005.
A majority on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development wanted a reduction of 30% in the price of white sugar; the Council agreed to 36%.
In its proposal, the Commission envisaged 60% for compensation payments, while the Council wants to increase them to 64.2%.
It is at this point that I would like to thank the new German Agriculture Minister, Mr Horst Seehofer, who, shortly after being sworn in, promptly played a significant part during negotiations in the Council in getting the Commission’s proposals changed to the benefit of the European Union’s beet and cane sugar cultivators.
The Council’s plan is that at least 10% of the funds provided for restructuring will be used for agriculture.
The Commission and the Council must support economically viable energy production by using the restructuring fund to provide start-up finance, and must do everything possible, to enable a stop to be put to the so-called triangular operations, to which reference has already been made.
In my capacity as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like, in particular, to thank the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Daul, and the rapporteur, Mr Fruteau, for their outstanding cooperation on the report on the reform of the common market organisation for sugar.
I also wish to thank all those other Members who have made a constructive contribution to this report.
When, on Thursday, we vote on the reform of the sugar market, this House will be sending out a signal and demanding that the Commission and the Council change their declarations of intent, even if only in a few respects. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Fruteau, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, for the maturity and efficiency with which he presented his proposals and for his cooperation with the political groups and all the parliamentary committees.
The review of the sugar industry is a premeditated crime for rural areas and for the European industry and of dubious results for developing countries, especially the less developed countries.
Already in numerous regions, including my country, Greece, demonstrations have started by sugar beet producers and workers in the sugar industry – including the Greek sugar industry – due to the significant repercussions which a reduction in the order of 36% will have.
We are therefore calling, within the framework of close cooperation and a mild adaptation of the new market, for certain proposals which are expressed as proposals in the Fruteau report.
Secondly, material activation of the Reconstruction Fund, as the basis for substantial consultation with all producers and workers for the preparation of integrated operational programmes and restructuring programmes in a bid to stop areas being abandoned.
Thirdly, aid of EUR 80 per hectare for areas sown under energy crops and an increase in the overall number of hectares allowed from 1.8 to 2.8 million.
This is important, because efforts are being made to switch to more environmentally friendly forms of energy.
Fourthly, the possibility of national aid for producers for a transitional period and the provision of a percentage of between approximately 30 and 50% of the sum given for the restructuring of industry to producers themselves, provided of course that they continue to cultivate other crops.
Of course, what this means, Commissioner, is that you undertake to safeguard the sugar budget during negotiations on the financial perspectives.
Otherwise, it will be cheque returned to drawer which, in the wake of the Commission's poor organisational skills, will reinforce the lack of credibility of the Community institutions in the mind of European citizens. &#160;&#160; Madam President, first and foremost, I should like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Fischer Boel on this reform.
The result is clear: more free trade where sugar is concerned.
Over the next few years, the world’s poorest countries will be given free access to the European market, and the price of sugar will be reduced to something closer to its price on the world market.
In spite of many calls to get things under way last year, we are now in a situation in which we have had our day, as the decision has already been made in the Council of Agriculture Ministers.
That does not mean that the European Parliament has made no impression on the reform.
For example, the section on restructuring reflects our desire to strengthen those regions in which sugar cane production is crucial.
I am very pleased that we have, at long last, adopted a reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar, which has existed largely unchanged for 40 years.
Meanwhile, others are procrastinating and have not yet begun investing.
It is not only sugar cane but also other crops that can be cultivated in areas previously given over to sugar cane and that can be used for biofuel which – environmentally, economically and in terms of supply – will be an important part of future energy production.
The biggest battle in the campaign to create a basis for biofuel must be fought with the Member States’ finance ministers, who are a little too keen on the tax revenue from oil and on the contribution it makes to the state coffers.
Finally, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Fruteau, for his constructive cooperation. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, we are agreed that sugar reform was necessary.
The market organisation for sugar had become perverse in terms of the quantities and budgetary resources concerned: after all, exports exceeded quotas by 5–6&#160;million tonnes, which led to a disastrous dumping effect.
The benefits gained by the ACP countries who were able to supply us with a proportion of their sugar on our terms were counteracted by the collapse in prices to which we contributed by means of this dumping on the world market.
Having noticed that there was considerable opposition within Parliament, the Commissioner proceeded to bypass our institution and, together with the Council, to conclude the matter without any regard for Parliament.
She knew that she could afford to do so because, firstly, she could assume that Parliament had no power of codecision and, secondly, because she had handed out presents to those whose interests were affected by this sugar market organisation.
The most generous gift – the restructuring aid of EUR&#160;6&#160;billion to industry – then produced a change of heart in the interest groups.
The only issue that still generates a great deal of opposition is the question as to how these restructuring funds will be managed.
The scenario where farmers receive only 10% and where it is not compulsory to make business and regional development plans in which social and environmental criteria or the workers play a part, is unacceptable.
I hope that the other groups will follow our lead. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar is giving rise to grave concern both in the ACP countries and in the outermost regions.
That concern is particularly keen on the island of Réunion, where sugar cane is still the main crop.
The mobilisation of the players in the sugar-cane sector has not been in vain.
The outermost regions share the same fate as the ACP countries in this respect.
This concern is all the more legitimate because the Hong&#160;Kong summit suggested there will be a new debate starting in 2009 with implications for the European budget, including the common agricultural policy.
Madam President, I will conclude by saying that, faced with this situation where our planters’ future is not assured beyond the life of a cane stock, it will be impossible for us to approve the report that is before us. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Madam President, the methods being employed to reform the sugar market run counter to the strategic goals of the EU and of the common agricultural policy.
The EU subsidises the dumping of B&#160;sugar surpluses onto the markets of third countries.
After all, A&#160;quotas serve to meet Member States’ own needs.
Combining A and B&#160;quotas would therefore mean that many Member States would risk no longer being self-sufficient in sugar.
It would also mean that those countries that have played no part in bringing about this overproduction crisis would incur unjustifiably high restructuring costs.
When viewed in the light of the reform’s goal, this proposal is unjust and illogical.
The proposed reform of the sugar market is based on a strange concept of solidarity, for which we unfortunately have the Commission and certain governments to thank.
Once again, it is becoming apparent that this policy is common… &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have always maintained, both in committee and in Parliament, that the Commission’s haste in pushing through its proposal – to the extent of breaking institutional and Community rules – was suspicious to say the least.
The reason for such haste seemed obvious: after the World Trade Organisation negotiations, the Commissioner would certainly find it more difficult to gain approval for a reform characterised above all by major price cuts and partial compensation for losses.
Although it will be very difficult to reopen a debate that is now closed, when the Council comes to formally approve the reform, it must consider the possibility of including some of the vital amendments proposed by Parliament to improve the text.
These include, for instance, maintaining the intervention system until 2010; varying compensatory aid according to production; making it mandatory to allocate at least 50% of the restructuring aid to sugar beet and chicory growers, to offset their loss of income; and reformulating the conditions for access to the restructuring system through the signing of a trade agreement with the sugar beet and chicory growers. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that you do not approve the three reports dealing with the reform of the sugar regime.
The reform is not improved sufficiently even by the better amendment proposals contained in Mr Fruteau’s reports, and it will lead to the European Union losing its unique chance to play a leading role in the liberalisation of agrarian trade within the WTO framework.
This is highly regrettable, because the assumption of a leading role in this issue would enable us to achieve our objectives in negotiations on the liberalisation of trade in non-agricultural commodities.
Neither quantity nor price regulation, for instance, are used in the trade in more important commodities, such as flour or cereals.
On the question of the Fruteau reports, the House should give its support, in particular, to the recommendation of the AGRI committee, under which the Council would never be allowed to conclude a final political agreement without consulting the European Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your support. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I first wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Fruteau, and Mr&#160;Daul, as Chairman of the Committee, who, through their cooperation, have produced an excellent report on the issue of sugar, and one which we will have no trouble voting in favour of this week.
For example, in my country, Finland, there was fear for a long time that the original Commission proposal on this subject would end sugar cultivation in our country entirely.
Now in Finland another sugar plant has to be closed by virtue of the impending decision and Finland itself has to pay a subsidy to its producers.
There is no way anyone can say that Finland has gained from this, but now it is important that you, Commissioner, assure Finnish farmers as well as farmers in the other small Member States that in future, agreements will be kept to and that all countries will be able to engage in farming.
Then our citizens will have confidence that this system actually works. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
I think the text is appreciably better than the Council’s compromise text, because it points out a way to achieve much-needed reform without drastically penalising the agricultural sector and its production, particularly in the less favoured regions.
The Council compromise gives cause for concern above all because of the repercussions it would have on less suitable areas, even though the cuts in aid have been substantially reduced, while the four-year extension certainly remains an unsustainable cut-off point.
I also ask you to return the favour of Parliament’s understanding by accepting the proposed improvements to the text, which are sure to be adopted by this House, particularly so as to allow for transitional state aid in the least favoured regions and to readjust the compensation paid to farmers, especially from the restructuring fund. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate Mr Fruteau for having prepared these three particularly important presentations on reform in the sugar sector.
As early as last November, the Council agreed on the common principles of the organisation of the sugar market and the directions for reform.
That was a very important decision, welcomed by us all; first, because it demonstrated our ability to agree on issues that are important to the entire Community, which unifies the Union and, second, it has strengthened our negotiating position in Hong Kong.
It is a shame, of course, that the agreement was accepted by the Council without having consulted the European Parliament, which represents the interests of the European people.
Therefore, restructuring is a cornerstone of all three reports.
In Lithuania, the major sugar manufacturer is the Danish company Danisco Sugar.
It is evident that the proposed reform will encourage to maintain the most efficient factories while decommissioning those operating at a loss.
However, what we need to do is take into account the interests of the employees, as well as those of raw material growers, and ensure that they are not abandoned.
The reform will only be a success if it takes into account the interests of all market players. &#160;&#160; Madam President, whenever it is stated that the ACP countries will suffer if the EU’s chaotic sugar arrangements are abolished, the underlying agenda is always protection of the EU’s own production.
We should help the ACP countries to develop sustainable production.
The sum of EUR&#160;200&#160;million proposed by Glenys Kinnock is an absolute minimum.
The social and environmental problems that are demonstrably to be found in many places must be solved through the ILO and the environmental conventions.
We must support those forces that are endeavouring to have the relevant requirements implemented, for example in Brazil, and, above all, we must have those requirements accepted by the WTO as obvious trading conditions. &#160;&#160; – I am sorry but today's debate, as far as Parliament's opinion on the sugar industry is concerned, is a mockery, given that the Council has decided and the national governments are planning to implement the harsh, anti-farming decision under which thousands of small and medium-sized holdings will be wiped out, sugar factories will close and the workers will join the ranks of the unemployed.
Already in Greece farmers and workers are demonstrating.
At the same time, the decisions by the WTO demonstrate that farming – and, of course, sugar – have come under the guillotine in order to favour the interests and profitability of European industrial capital through its increased, unimpeded penetration into developing countries, so that it can exploit them better.
Unfortunately, a quick or a slower death for the sugar industry ... &#160;&#160; Madam President, like the last speaker, I too wonder why we are considering these proposals.
Surely the Council made a decision on 22&#160;November and it is now a .
I recommend that a proper study of the effects of the new regime should be made without delay.
Never let it be forgotten that our actions affect human beings out there in the real world, beyond our cloistered environment.
It is dangerous because it will result in the EU becoming dependent on sugar supplies from the rest of the world, which will be to the detriment of our continent’s food security.
It is unjust because the subsidised exports of B&#160;sugar that cause so many problems were primarily the brainchild of France and Germany, yet it is the EU as a whole that pays the price, and the new Member States that suffer the most.
Only a few years ago, the large sugar companies in Poland paid a very low price for factories that had been privatised.
Finally, the reform is antisocial because it ignores the plight of thousands of farmers and sugar factory workers who will lose their livelihoods, and who will find it hard to find new jobs.
We should reject this pseudo-reform for Europe’s sake. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, the common market for sugar had largely been working well since 1968, as borne out by the figures: we were producing 20 million, consuming 16 million and only exporting four million, as against Brazil’s figure of 13 million.
Free trade devotees tell us, however, that European sugar has created economic diabetes among the poor countries.
This outlook has led to three Community regulations, along with a 36% price cut – and the accompanying drop in revenue – and the opening up of the market in 2009 to triangular trade in sugar via the Balkans or the least developed countries, to the benefit, of course, of the large operators.
Despite Mr&#160;Fruteau’s laudable efforts, we are set to become sugar importers, the European taxpayer will have to foot the bill for a series of indemnities to the ACP and, after 2015, Europe’s agri-food industry will be shoved aside.
Furthermore, given that by 2015 China and India are set to be huge agri-food importers, Brazil will be feeding Asia while Europe is out of the picture.
Just one question, Commissioner: why, 20 years on, do you dislike the small farmers of Europe&#160;... &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, I should like to express my particular thanks to the rapporteur for his work.
The Agriculture Committee has succeeded in moderating quite a few of the Commission’s proposals, and I think that the result is most acceptable.
The cultivation of energy crops offers farmers at least some opportunity to find alternatives to sugar-beet growing and to promote non-food production – which is vital and also forward looking.
I hope that, in the final reckoning, we shall continue to have beet farmers and an active, attractive sugar industry, in the future. &#160;&#160; Madam President, in November, the Council decided to reform the European sugar sector by reducing prices by 36% over four years, and paying compensation of more than EUR 7 billion to the European sugar sector.
The fact is that that really would be funding the poorest countries from their own pocket, and that is the wrong type of solidarity. &#160;&#160; Madam President, all we can say is that this debate is a bit too late in the day.
The farmers in the Member States are getting a raw deal, as are the farmers in the ACP countries.
We have the technology – which is already being applied in Brazil and elsewhere – by means of which sugar cane is directly converted into alcohol.
There is still a large supply of intervention sugar and it looks like in the first year, the level of participation in the restructuring process will be lower than expected.
There is no question that the European sugar policy should be reformed, but not in a way from which only major food producers benefit. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, today’s debate has raised many questions, in particular with regard to the impact the reform will have on the new Member States.
I would remind the House that farmers in the old EU Member States receive three times more in land subsidies than those in the new Member States.
Genuine assistance means giving the new Member States a real chance to develop their economies, rather than granting them subsidies on a short-term basis.
One or even several countries can be outvoted, but the Polish public is opposed to a reform of this kind, and objects to being constantly cheated.
So the ongoing struggles in relation to the rules and regulations of sugar production and trade are not accidental.
We must not forget that a considerable part of the EU economy is related to this product, from agriculture to industry, with people working in all the sectors.
We cannot ignore their interests or allow any threat to their employment and income.
As with many good intentions, this went wrong along the way and undoubtedly began to constitute a problem.
The last straw seems to have been the agreement with ACP countries on the re-export of their sugar, which was subsidised to the tune of EUR&#160;800&#160;million.
Interpol, which is an admirable and valuable organisation, and which is situated on European Union territory, has a number of databases – on stolen documents, on stolen works of art, on wanted criminals, on fingerprints, etc.
At the same time, as pointed out in the 2004 Commission proposal for a Council common position on the transfer of certain data to Interpol, applicable data protection rules must be respected.
It underlined that the conditions of the exchange shall be agreed with Interpol in order to ensure – and I would like to stress the following – that the data exchanged will respect the data protection principles that lie at the heart of data exchange within the Union, particularly with regard to the exchange and automatic processing of such data.
In particular these rules establish a commission for the control of Interpol’s files and govern the composition, role and functions of that commission.
The current chairman of the commission is Mr Hustinx, who is currently also the EU data protection supervisor. &#160;&#160; I wish to ask a supplementary question.
I refer in particular to certain key principles regarding data protection: who is entitled to access the data; for what specific and predetermined purposes; how long can data be retained; and, above all, who will be entitled to use them and in what circumstances?
As you know, we have recently put forward a draft framework decision on data protection under the third pillar.
The problem of water shortages in the Mediterranean is intensifying due, on the one hand, to the increased demand for water in certain sectors and areas and, on the other hand, to the repercussions of climate change.
In general, protection of our water resources is one of the priorities of the environmental policy of the European Union.
Following this, the Commission launched a joint procedure between the framework directive and the EU Water Initiative, a procedure which Greece headed for the part of the initiative concerning the Mediterranean.
The aim of this cooperation is to facilitate the application of policies of proper administration of water resources in the Mediterranean countries, by adhering to the principles of the Community Water Framework Directive.
Under the SΜΑΡ 2 programme between 2000 and 2005, two of the eight projects – with a Community contribution of EUR 6.2 million – directly concerned water management.
Already various relevant plans are at the signature stage and are expected to last three years from January 2006. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, thank you very much for the information you have given me in your reply as regards EU policy within the framework of the 25 countries and its cooperation with third countries in order to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, especially within the framework of the Mediterranean basin.
However, there is also money for neighbouring countries.
Of course, all this depends on progress with the adoption by the European Parliament and the Council of the financial perspectives for 2007 to 2013.
As regards the drought in Portugal and Spain, the European Union Cohesion Fund provided funds to adapt and support measures already financed some time ago in order to deal with similar weather phenomena.
Social partners from all sectors were involved in discussions on the resolution, and asked to provide further information in the form of an extensive questionnaire.
The latter was also forwarded to the administrative bodies of the Member States, which is the follow-up procedure for all Parliament resolutions.
The end result was a draft second report on the implementation of Directive 96/71/EC, which covers the same issues as Parliament’s resolution.
The Commission has played an active role in both implementing the Directive in practice and improving cooperation in the field of information provision by working together with a group of specialists from the Member States.
One of the outcomes of this group’s work has been a code of conduct, along with guidelines for cooperation and multilingual documents for informal exchanges of information.
The aim of these latter is to facilitate communication between contact points and monitoring bodies.
In addition, a dedicated website has been launched on the posting of workers, which contains key information in three languages on the legal framework governing the posting of workers and links to related documents and websites set up by the Member States that cover problems relating to the posting of workers.
The website also provides the public with access to a list of contact points and monitoring bodies, which means that official bodies and individuals can find out about the appropriate contact points in the various Member States.
I have been informed that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has decided to draft an own-initiative report on the impact of Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services.
I will be very interested to learn the outcome of this hearing, and I would welcome the opportunity to cooperate with Parliament on this key issue. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your reply, Commissioner Špidla.
I should like some clarification on whether the report, which you indicate as being finalised, is the report dated 15&#160;November 2005 that has already been circulated in draft form to the social partners.
Finally, could you indicate what statistics you have with regard to the number of posted workers and labour inspectorates in the various Member States and the effectiveness of those inspectors? &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the document to which Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa referred is indeed the report I mentioned.
Access for workers from third countries is a policy which is embodied in EU legislation, and which applies to all the Member States.
If the honourable Member wishes to discuss amendments to the rules on third-country workers in more detail, I would of course be more than happy to do so. &#160;&#160; I would thank the Commissioner for his answer and am pleased to see that the Commission will cooperate with the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs now that we are dealing with the issue in an own-initiative report introduced in connection with the Posting of Workers Directive.
Generally speaking, I can say that in principle the Commission’s comments should not call any Member State’s social model per se into question.
In other words, the directive was intended from the outset to provide protection to posted workers at a level that is appropriate for the given Member State.
It is self-evident that any social model that is implemented must comply fully with the goals and fundamental principles of Community legislation and that it must observe these latter, in particular when it comes to such principles as legitimacy of aim, objective justification and proportionality.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is in the process of preparing an opinion that will form part of proceedings before the European Court of Justice.
As is outlined in the Commission communication of 25&#160;October 2005 on the contribution of taxation and customs policies to the Lisbon Strategy, the Commission intends to carry out the necessary preparatory work towards a common consolidated tax base over the next three years, with a view to presenting a Community legislative measure by 2008.
As regards vulnerable areas of less populous Member States, it should be borne in mind that, under Community state aid rules, Member States have to respect strict conditions when providing for preferential tax regimes in favour of companies undertaking investments in assisted areas, under national regional state aid guidelines for promoting the economic development of certain disadvantaged areas of the European Union.
State aid rules remain applicable to any state measures which may be enacted in the context of a common consolidated tax base initiative.
It will help to reduce compliance costs and to encourage cross-border activities, which will lead to a higher rate of economic growth and employment and a higher level of competitiveness across the whole of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, your reply satisfies me completely.
The Court has interpreted the principle of freedom of establishment for cross-border loss relief in a way that is in compliance with the logic and philosophy of the single market and in a way that is supported by the Commission.
The Commission has to continue its efforts to eliminate all obstacles preventing companies from reaping the full benefits of the internal market.
The Commission therefore intends to come forward with a communication in the near future in which it will outline its views on cross-border loss relief.
This communication will go beyond the specific case of Marks&#160;[amp]&#160;Spencer and focus on the economic aspects.
The Commission knows that this is a difficult subject as Member States are rightly concerned about the need to protect their tax revenues, but at the same time it is clear that it cannot accept that obstacles to the internal market continue to hamper companies from making investments and creating growth and employment in line with the objectives which it has set itself as part of the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, you have not answered my question.
The Marks [amp] Spencer case highlights double tax dumping.
We have different rates and different approaches between the Member States to the taxation of multinational companies with parent companies and subsidiaries within the framework of the European Union.
The problem in that case was that while United Kingdom law permits loss relief inside the United Kingdom market, the same is not permitted in the case of other companies or branches of Marks [amp] Spencer in different Member States – one in Germany and one in Belgium.
The Commission wants to study carefully the budgetary consequences of such rulings and try to take the initiative to have better coordination within the tax policy of the Member States: if not harmonisation, at least coordination is needed in order to avoid such problems.
To conclude, I want to refer to the first question concerning the common consolidated corporate tax base, which would solve the problem.
In addition to the regular consultation with stakeholders and notably an online public consultation currently under way, the study actually serves as a platform to engage in a transparent and open debate on the conditions for enabling the further phasing-in of competition in the postal market.
It is the understanding of the Commission that the approach taken by the consultancy on the issue of the uniform tariff and the frequency of delivery was an attempt to give more flexibility to the public postal operator in order to sustain a viable and efficient universal service in the long term.
The Commission can assure the honourable Member that on all aspects of the postal reform in the European Union, including both the issues mentioned, it will try its best to strike the right balance between the necessary degree of harmonisation at EU level and those conditions to be fixed at Member State level, which would reflect the very different characteristics of each national postal market. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
As Mrs McGuinness will be aware, the liberalisation of the postal market has been in progress for some time, and it is as part of that process that the Commission must bring forward its report on the direction to be taken.
The case law of the Court of Justice has established that, subject to certain conditions, patients have the right to have the cost of healthcare received in other Member States assumed by the social security system in their own Member State.
Patients are, without prior authorisation, entitled to get reimbursement for non-hospital care received in other Member States.
For hospital care, prior authorisation may be required before a patient can go abroad to receive health care.
Before the proposal for a services directive was tabled, the Commission carried out a study on the implementation of the rights of patients in the Member States.
The conclusion was that ‘European citizens are encountering unjustified or disproportionate obstacles when they apply for reimbursement, from their Member State of residence, of costs for non-hospital treatment incurred in another Member State, or for authorisation for assumption of the costs in the case of hospital treatment’.
For an individual citizen, the right to receive treatment in other Member States and to have the cost covered by his or her own social security system is probably one of the most important benefits of the internal market.
These are the reasons for the Commission to propose the inclusion of health services in the scope of the services directive and for proposing a specific provision on the assumption of health care costs incurred in other Member States.
This work has shown the clear benefits of cooperation between Member States on health and healthcare related issues, of which the reimbursement of costs is just one aspect.
A number of Member States are concerned about the effects cross-border care and patient mobility may have on their national health budgets.
Pending the vote in this House on the first reading of the proposed services directive, it would be inappropriate to speculate on the position on certain articles, but I can confirm that where Member States impose disproportionate or unjustified restrictions, the Commission will act, including by launching infringement procedures. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I should like to thank the Commissioner for his well thought out answer.
Therefore, there are many conflicting viewpoints among parliamentarians on this issue and there are conflicting viewpoints among Member State governments on the scope of the Services Directive to include healthcare costs.
As I have said on this issue and on any others relating to the Services Directive, I remain open to hearing the concerns and opinions of all stakeholders. &#160;&#160; I wish particularly to thank the Commissioner for his excellent answer to Mrs&#160;Roithová’s question, and I wonder if the Commission might help bring about some understanding of these issues by producing basic data showing that this is an area in which genuine added value can be obtained.
By this I mean that cross-border care could constitute added value for people, that we could obtain better specialist health care and that patients could obtain better care of higher quality, sometimes at lower cost but, above all, in a more efficient way.
However, as I said in reply to Mrs Roithová, there are differing views on this issue.
I await the outcome, in the first instance, of the vote in the European Parliament next month and the various amendments that have been proposed in this and other areas.
Our communication of 6&#160;December announced the adoption in 2006 of an interpretative communication on Article&#160;296 in the field of defence procurement and the start of preparatory work on a possible defence procurement directive.
The contribution of Parliament to this debate, voted on 17&#160;November, explicitly supports the Commission in its initiative.
The interpretative communication will give guidance on how to use Article&#160;296 of the Treaty, which allows Member States a derogation from internal market rules and from Directive 2004/18 when their essential security interests are at stake.
The adoption by the Commission of a possible proposal for such a directive is subject to the results of the impact assessment which will be carried out in 2006.
The Commission is not in a position to give an assessment of the facts described by the honourable Member in the second part of the question.
On the other hand, the question of government ownership of the share capital of potential contractors, and the consequences in terms of the rules to be applied, is not an issue to be addressed on the basis of Article&#160;296: this is linked to the ‘in-house’ derogation, as established by the Court of Justice.
However, according to this case law, the derogation only applies in cases of 100% ownership. &#160;&#160; – I should like to start by thanking the Commissioner for his transparency and comprehensive reply to my question.
I think that concern about the question of transparency of public procurement and public defence is an issue which preoccupies the European economy in general, but I shall bear in mind the Commissioner's explanation that he will clarify the derogations from Article 296 of the Treaty on the basis of the relevant decision by the Court of Justice, especially the stage of the procedure during which public arms procurement contracts are awarded.
Hopefully our recent communication of December 2005 and what we intend to do in cooperation with all stakeholders will open up that area even further. &#160;&#160; I believe it is important to have a single European market in the defence production and procurement sector, which is vital for the future of the European Union.
Therefore, as the honourable Member implies in his question, any opening-up of the market in this area could lead to very substantial savings on the defence budget of many Member States, which would be much to the betterment of the public finances in all those Member States.
So there is indeed considerable potential in this area.
Our cooperation with Ukraine can be seen as most successful.
The implementation of the Action Plan by Ukraine in the course of 2005 can be assessed positively.
At the summit with Ukraine in December 2005, President Barroso confirmed progress by Ukraine in political and economic reform.
Progress in the EU-Ukraine relationship could be registered on economic integration; granting of market economy status by the EU to Ukraine; cooperation in the key sectors of energy and transport; a memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation; justice and home affairs; the opening of visa facilitation negotiations in parallel to negotiations on a readmission agreement; as well as in the area of foreign and security policy, namely, the launching of the EU border assistance mission on the Transnistrian segment of the Ukraine-Moldova border.
In February 2005 the EU committed to initiating early consultations on an enhanced agreement between the EU and Ukraine as soon as the main political priorities of the Action Plan have been addressed.
This will also open up prospects for the establishment of a free trade area between the EU and Ukraine.
The policy of constant progress and small, continued and common steps in the EU-Ukraine relationship has proved to be successful over the past year since the Orange Revolution and will allow us to tackle the challenges ahead. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, on the one hand, I regret the absence of Commissioner&#160;Ferrero-Waldner – I do not think that that is right, as her name appears on the agenda – but, on the other, I am glad that the Austro-Hungarian cooperation in the Commission is working so well.
Then comes further and deeper cooperation. &#160;&#160; I should like to put a question to the Commission.
The fact is that, today, the European Parliament has almost unanimously adopted a very powerful report on human trafficking.
The assassination of Foreign Minister Kadirgamar, the electoral boycott enforced by the LTTE in the north and east, and the numerous killings in the east and in Jaffna have put the ceasefire in jeopardy.
The European Union, and the Commission in particular, plays a strong part in the peace process.
Sri Lanka is a personal priority of the Commissioner responsible for external relations, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
The Commissioner responsible for external relations personally attended three of the four co-chair meetings held in 2005.
The Commission also supported the idea that the next co-chair meeting should take place in Sri Lanka close to the fourth anniversary of the ceasefire agreement.
The Commission will intensify its efforts into the next year.
The Commissioner responsible for external relations herself intends to return there in February, hopefully with all the co-chairs.
She wants to be able to speak to Mr Pirapaharan in person and pass him the direct message that Europe will react very soon if the LTTE shows no sign of change.
As I am not the Commissioner responsible I can only give my personal view, and not that of the Commission, on this new development which the Commission has not had time to discuss.
We note with concern that the democratisation process in Colombia is constantly being disrupted by disturbances in the country.
We are also concerned about the continuing human rights violations there.
A number of Swedish voluntary organisations send personnel to Colombia to work on peace projects and projects to defend the rights of local and indigenous people, including land rights.
Therefore the EU strategy for Colombia mainly aims at supporting comprehensive peace initiatives, with the strong involvement of local communities.
Among these, over the period from 2001 to 2005, more than EUR&#160;16&#160;million was committed for Colombia from the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, for 53&#160;projects supporting human rights and democratisation, and which have been implemented or are still under way. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
That is why there is still an opportunity to help the local population and to ensure that people are allowed to retain their land.
The Commission supports those efforts and other human rights issues through various cooperation programmes in several ASEAN countries.
An EC-sponsored ASEAN-wide human rights conference will be held in Manila in 2006.
ASEAN leaders also agreed to dispatch the foreign minister of Malaysia, the current chair of ASEAN, to assess the democratic process during a visit.
While those initiatives by ASEAN are positive, we should remain cautious about the prospects of immediate changes in Myanmar and especially about the release of Aung San Suu Kyi. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Commissioner, progress has indeed been made, at least in terms of the call that has been made for human rights to be respected in the country formerly known as Burma.
I think ASEAN could do more, but your proposal is certainly worthy of consideration. &#160;&#160; Questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see Annex).
That concludes Question Time. &#160;&#160; &#160;The next item is the debate on the following reports by Mr&#160;Fruteau, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr Fruteau on the effort he has made to improve the Commission’s proposal, which represents a u-turn in what has been the European Union's policy on the sugar sector since 1968 and which, furthermore, is going to put an end to sugar beet cultivation in many regions of the European Union.
Although this has been mentioned many times, I would like to comment on the lack of respect that the Council has shown towards this Parliament by reaching an agreement and communicating it to the media before hearing the opinion of this Parliament.
I would also like to express my disagreement with the discrimination against the countries with a production share lower than their consumption and do not therefore produce the surpluses that in theory make this reform necessary.
These countries are being penalised, while an extra quota is being provided for the large producers of C sugar.
I do not imagine that you believe, Commissioner, that with a million and a half hectares for energy crops and a subsidy of EUR 40 per hectare we can respond to the needs of the huge number of farmers who are going to lose their livelihood. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the decision of the Council is brutal for the European, and therefore the Hungarian sugar industry, and hence it cannot be accepted.
The European Parliament cannot allow the decapitation of the European sugar industry.
If this brutal Council regulation remains in place, in 15 years’ time sugar production will be limited to two European Union Member States: France and Germany.
The position of the European Parliament is that the price cut should be 30 percent, lower than the percentage specified in the decision of the Council, and compensation should be higher, of 100 percent if possible.
A more moderate price cut, together with the conditions mentioned, would grant more chances of survival to sugar beet production and sugar industry in midfield Member States, such as Hungary.
This situation will get worse as the price drops, which will only benefit major producers and distributors.
Ultimately, the consumer ends up paying the same price for a kilo of sugar.
In fact, Mrs Kinnock’s other amendments also deserve our support.
Moreover, this reform invites a discussion about a general abolition of all export subsidies, as recently promised in Hong Kong.
We also advocated an increase in production quotas, in countries in which there is a production shortfall in relation to consumption, as in the case of Portugal.
Accordingly, we proposed, and continue to advocate, an increase in production quotas at the Coruche factory in Portugal to 120&#160;000 tonnes of sugar beet, in order to guarantee economic viability, jobs and sugar beet production, given the good conditions in Portugal and the major shortfall in sugar production in relation to consumption. &#160;&#160; Mr President, they say it is better to give a fishing rod than a fish.
The European Parliament demonstrated its awareness of this fact by adopting a resolution on the future reform of the common market organisation for sugar on 10&#160;March&#160;2005.
This has led to us being presented with proposals that violate the principle of European solidarity, and whose aim is to ensure that the sugar market is reformed at the expense of smaller countries, in particular the new EU Member States.
The situation is similar in many other countries.
For these and many other reasons, I would suggest that all three proposals be rejected, and that a new reform be drafted that would in keeping with Parliament’s resolution of 10&#160;March&#160;2005. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I am fully aware that ever more far-reaching reforms of the common agricultural policy must be and will be carried out.
It is an unfortunate fact that these new reforms will work to the disadvantage of farmers, and that as usual the new Member States will suffer most.
As the rapporteur said, our attention should be focused in particular on the men and women who earn their living from sugar production.
The transfer of production quotas from one country to another should be prohibited in order to avoid speculation.
This reform of the sugar market is yet another wasted opportunity.
Instead of acting as an expression of solidarity between EU Member States and with developing countries, it will result in insufficient aid for poor countries and fresh points of contention between Member States. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, there is an urgent need for a reform of the sugar market, since the present regulation governing quotas, prices and export subsides expires on 30&#160;June&#160;2006.
The view held not only by myself, but also by the majority of sugar beet farmers in Poland, is that the only word that can be used to describe these changes is scandalous.
It has even been claimed by Polish sugar beet farmers that the reform of the EU sugar market was delayed on purpose until after the new Member States had joined, so that sugar production in the EU could be scaled down at their expense.
The WTO panel ruled against us, and we were unsuccessful in our appeal.
There is an astonishing lack of consistency in the measures taken by the European Commission and the Council.
Even though the goal of these institutions is to limit production, they have proposed an increase for countries producing large quantities of what is known as C&#160;sugar.
I would ask the Commissioner whether the reform of the sugar market amounts to nothing but haggling, or whether it is based on consistent measures that will ensure that the European sugar market is competitive.
I would ask Parliament to adopt the amendments that I have tabled with a view to improving this reform of the sugar market, at least in part.
It is also in the interests of the major users, who will buy sugar a great deal cheaper on the world market without this being reflected in the price of the end product, thereby maximising their profits.
In Europe, moreover, some countries will stop producing and others will carry on with some difficulty, both for producers and for firms and their employees.
I shall be keeping a close eye on this. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the sugar COM has been called a historic agreement and a brave and bold decision on a situation that has remained crystallised for too many years.
This new policy will encourage trade and will strengthen the European Union’s negotiating position at the WTO meeting to be held in Hong Kong next month.
Two tonnes of dry biomass, in fact, produces the same heat as one tonne of oil, but while the potential cost of biomass is EUR&#160;200 per tonne, oil costs about EUR&#160;400 per tonne.
We could adopt proactive, positive measures for the environment, for farmers and for the producers themselves, without promoting a benefit culture and, what is more, without losing jobs. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, today we are debating three reports tabled before Parliament on the reform of the sugar market.
Firstly, the reform has been made necessary by the excessive amounts of sugar exported by two countries in particular, namely Germany and France.
Secondly, sugar production limits have been imposed on sugar factories rather than on farmers in Poland, unlike in other EU Member States.
All of these latter believe that they have come up with a first-rate idea for a reform of the sugar market. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we all agree that the sector needs to be reformed in order to make it sustainable, in line with the latest reform of the CAP and with the EU’s international obligations.
Despite these new objectives, however, the reform proposed by the Commission would cause serious problems for Europe’s farmers, not least the swingeing reduction in the price of sugar.
I therefore endorse Mr Fruteau’s report, along with the work carried out by the various political groups in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which I feel sends out a very clear message to the Commission and the Council.
In addition to the capping of price reductions to 30% in the common organisation of the market in sugar, I wish to highlight Amendment 3, on support schemes for farmers, which refers to the possibility of Member States continuing to enjoy production-linked subsidies, at least to some extent.
This will help prevent the rapid disappearance of the sugar sector in the regions most under threat from this reform.
I would say, however, that the Commission’s proposal was drawn up more from the point of view of the processing industry than that of agricultural producers, and more from the perspective of the interests of the major surplus producing countries than that of the smaller countries which do not even produce enough sugar beet to satisfy consumption, as in the case of Portugal.
The mainstay of sugar beet production in Portugal is a factory that produces some 70&#160;000 tonnes of the 300&#160;000 tonnes consumed across the country.
In other words, it is not countries like Portugal that are unbalancing the international market with surplus production.
We also have a duty, as politicians directly elected by the citizens of Europe, to demand respect, both ethically and politically, for the institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome Mr&#160;Fruteau's reports and I would also pay tribute to the way he has gone about his work.
Like the rapporteur and previous speakers, I think it is a pity that the Council chose to reach a political agreement in advance of the debate in this Parliament.
The four-year implementation that the Council also recommends gives our producers a chance to adjust to the new realities.
Where I would like to see more action is in two specific areas.
Firstly, in relation to C&#160;sugar.
I&#160;warmly welcome the EUR&#160;7&#160;billion compensation that has been given to European producers and I recognise that they need that support.
However, like other speakers in this debate, I regret that we are not being as generous to ACP producers.
The Commission proposal was for EUR&#160;190&#160;million a year between 2007 and 2013, which was good but not generous enough.
Finally, I would like to add my voice to those who say that using sugar as a biofuel is a potential way forward and a potential new market for sugar.
In relation to the levy to be deducted from processors, could the Commission say whether, if a country – and I am speaking of Ireland – grows beet in 2006, the company has to contribute to the restructuring levy this year, should it intend to stop production in 2007?
My second question relates to a comment the Commissioner made earlier in the debate when she said that the 10% which is being set aside under the restructuring scheme for growers could be increased by Member States in particular circumstances.
Without using all of my time, because we may all be tired and perhaps emotional, I shall just say, with regard to the developing world – and I share the concerns of others here in the House – that in reforming sugar we have upset the developing world, because we are offering it access to our markets at much reduced prices.
Lastly, I hope the reforms do what the Commissioner says they will do: give us a competitive sugar industry.
Although we do not have power of codecision in this field, this decision can only be tolerated in the light of the 2005 WTO negotiations.
The compromise that has now been reached remains a tremendous challenge for those affected: within the EU as well as the ACP and least developed countries.
This state of affairs must change&#160;as soon as possible and the market as a whole must be deregulated and liberalised.
Secondly, the fact that the sugar regime is being reformed only after the EU’s policy was ruled unfair by the World Trade Organisation is deplorable, and everyone in the EU should spend some time reflecting on it.
Yet it would appear that advocates of protectionism are well represented in this House.
I am fundamentally opposed to their views and I will not vote in favour of their amendments.
I am therefore in favour of the reform of the sugar regime, and indeed I believe that it could go further.
Our experiences in the Czech Republic show that such a reform is both feasible and manageable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like firstly to highlight the efforts made by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to be able to reach an agreement amongst all of the political groups, which is not at all easy given that the Commission’s initial proposal was aimed more towards the disappearance of sugar cultivation than its reform, without taking account of the resulting social cost.
Secondly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Fruteau, whose three regulations have incorporated moderation, balance, solidarity and, above all, a realistic approach to the future of the sector, not just the 21 European Union producer countries, but also the ACP and least-developed countries.
I would also like to add my voice to the many criticisms heard in this House at the fact that the Council should adopt a political agreement without awaiting Parliament’s report.
Finally, after so much work, I would like to refer to the double speak that some Members have been indulging in from the outset – I feel that I should point this out now that we have come to the end – voting in favour of the Fruteau report in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and then, when they get back to their country, criticising everything about it.
Despite everything, we believe that the current situation is much better than the situation at the outset; we do not like the reforms, we have never liked them, but we must recognise that we have improved on the difficult initial situation.
It is preferable to do things with an eye to future generations rather than to the next elections, because we will always be proven right in the end and the strategy of confrontation without arguments which has taken hold in my country will not bring about any positive solution.
The closure of sugar factories will send farmers and industrial workers into unemployment.
Unfortunately, the first demonstrations have already started in my country.
Besides, we owe it to the environment, because energy crops mean that we are protecting the environment, although the ACP countries will not fare better in the future under the new regime.
Commissioner, you are a sober, honest and able person.
You work with Mr Fruteau, who has made very good proposals, you work with the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Daul, you make improvements, you make brave proposals, you demonstrate to those who criticise you that you are not here as a formality and that everything has been decided, but that you want – truly and constructively – to listen to Parliament.
In this way you protect the European Union, the European Parliament and European agriculture.
Otherwise, in many disadvantaged areas of Europe we shall see farming disappear, villages abandoned and the ecological deterioration of Europe.
For heaven's sake, I do not think that is what you want. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sugar reform is first and foremost a social problem for farmers and workers in Europe and in the developing world.
For social justice to be successful on a world scale, the European market has to be opened up.
The Commissioner succeeded in making an enormous leap, the Council managed a smaller jump and this House would like to take a somewhat smaller jump still.
Thanks to the pressure we have exerted, we now have a bigger restructuring fund, which is important.
They want alternative employment when their factories close down.
Sugar cane has become a valuable commodity, capable of producing not only sugar but also energy, using bagasse or indeed natural manure.
Whereas the Commission and the Council have refused any further financial concessions to the departments, France has been authorised to implement provisions paving the way for state aid to be granted, in addition to the Community funds, via the political agreement in the Council ahead of the WTO summit in Hong&#160;Kong.
There could be compensation for price cuts, with some leeway for increased production, which would return some sense of stability and visibility to a sector that has endured two years of uncertainty.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Fruteau, on his efforts and would formally ask you, Commissioner, to retain the provisions in the Council’s compromise on sugar in the overseas departments in order to ensure the sector’s future. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sugar reform was one of the most complex Community policy dossiers.
Before finding political agreement, the Council should have taken Parliament’s opinion into consideration, in order to strengthen cooperation among the European institutions and to provide solutions commensurate with our expectations and the impending challenges.
It is certainly a painful reform, but it is inevitable if Europe is to meet its international commitments and at the same time ensure that the sector has a sustainable, competitive, long-term future.
The compromise that has been reached is much more balanced than the Commission’s proposal in June and it provides for a series of positive measures: the chance to retain a proportion of coupled aid for those who continue producing; the support measures for sugar beet growers; the attention given to the regions penalised by the dismantling of the industry; and the creation of a diversification fund.
The reform thus avoids totally abandoning production and its social and employment repercussions will be much less disastrous than we feared. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, this is not the first time that Parliament has made known its opinion on the reform of the sugar regime.
Among other things, this resolution called for the quota reduction measures to be reconsidered, in particular in the case of the new Member States.
I am delighted that the Commission has revised its original strategy and proposed a reform based on a reduction in the guaranteed price of sugar that will meet competitive sugar producers and sugar beet farmers halfway.
I have certain reservations about the report we are discussing today, however, since it calls for a smaller reduction in the price of sugar than that to which the Member States agreed in December.
On the one hand, these countries would like the price of sugar to be reduced in markets outside Europe, but on the other, they want prices to remain high on the European market, to which they have privileged access.
Secondly, I should like to stress that reducing the price of sugar over a longer period would work to the advantage of less competitive businesses, and help perpetuate distortions in the sugar market.
We should therefore prove that we are a truly European Parliament, and that we are not afraid of implementing market mechanisms, in the fields of sugar production and sales. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the political agreement reached by the Agriculture Ministers − including the Spanish Socialist Minister, for which she should have been dismissed − will undoubtedly be adopted at the end of the month among points A of the agenda, that is to say without any debate whatsoever.
I would like to make it clear, in case there is still any doubt, that this report, which will be put to the vote on Thursday, is a very long way from the political agreement reached by the Member States, with regard both to sugar prices and to compensation for farmers or the Member States' freedom to maintain part of the coupled aid, which in the agreement amongst the 25 in the Council is not taken up.
I believe that I have found in them a lot of common ground with my own views.
You have argued that the safety net is necessary during the restructuring period ending in 2009-2010 in order to limit undesirable market disturbances.
In order not to encourage overproduction and subsequent building-up of stocks, it will be necessary to set the intervention price at a level considerably lower than the reference price of the following campaign.
Intervention will also have to be limited to a certain maximum quantity.
Finally, I think that during the restructuring period we need to dispose of all management tools, including private storage.
You also argue that as long as our international commitments are respected some quantities of quota sugar should or could be exported.
Along these lines, I can support Amendments 11 and 42, raising the political profile of bioethanol in the reform package.
I am also aware that Mr&#160;Parish is currently working on a Parliament resolution on exactly the same subject.
I must underline that I am very interested in coming back to this debate as it is very important.
This is specifically a problem in the Mediterranean countries.
I can share your concerns as regards the income of beet growers, and consent to the relevant part of Amendment 31 concerning the removal of the additional 10% flexibility for the sugar price.
There is also a series of technical amendments that were already accepted in the technical discussions on the Commission proposal.
I can support the principle of increased flexibility for Member States in the context of the compensatory payments and therefore accept the substance of Amendments 5, 6, 8 and 11, adjusted as necessary.
Amendment 4 and Amendment 13 present a compensation system based on the amount of sugar produced from beet from each individual farmer.
I am in favour of the proportionality principle of this reform, for instance, by advancing higher levels of compensation to Member States facing severe reductions on their quotas.
Finally, let me refer to the draft regulation establishing the restructuring funds.
I can endorse the idea underlying Amendments 4 and 14, whereby beet growers can benefit from a part of the restructuring aid.
However, given the very different conditions faced by Member States, a minimum of 50% would be too high.
Let us not forget the many obligations that need to be dealt with through this restructuring fund.
There are some environmental, and some social obligations that are very important.
As mentioned already in my opening statement, a of 10%, with the possibility for the Member States to increase this percentage, seems much more appropriate.
Likewise, I can support the principle set down in Amendment 5, and the relevant part of Amendment 10, relating to the extended flexibility for industries ceasing sugar production and moving to alternative sectors, such as the production of bioethanol.
Therefore, I am of the view that Amendments 6, 9 and the relevant part of Amendment 7 should not be accepted.
Some last-minute amendments have also been tabled.
Sugar beet growers who continue sugar beet production in Member States which significantly reduce their sugar quota should be eligible for some kind of state aid for a transitional period.
This also includes the last-minute amendments tabled last week.
I took note of the particularly harsh comments that were made concerning the treatment of the ACP countries.
The foreseen price cut only kicks in for the ACP countries in 2008, two years after it is imposed on the European farmers.
Let us not forget that after the full implementation of the reform, the ACP countries will still benefit from a price that is twice as high as the world market price.
The Commission has always proposed an action plan for the ACP countries, with EUR&#160;40&#160;million for 2006.
These funds are expected to be at their disposal in 2006, even if the prices are not lowered until 2008.
The reform also introduces a number of obligations for undertakings that want to take up the restructuring fund.
I must say that I am sorry and disappointed that quite a lot of Members – among others the Polish Members – are obviously unable to be here, because it must be completely clear that sugar companies cannot, I repeat,just take or cash in the restructuring fund and leave the country.
These rules apply to training or early retirement, or what you will.
Lastly, some Members criticised the fact that the Council agreed on a political line for the sugar reform on 24 November 2005.
The definition of a political line at the November Council was driven by exceptional circumstances.
The current regime remains applicable only during the ongoing campaign and our growers and operators face some very difficult choices.
Finally, we had to prepare for Hong Kong in order to be able to defend our sugar sector, and we therefore needed to know what we had to defend.
Since I presented my reform proposal before this Parliament on 22 June, I made it absolutely clear that the Council would have to define its political line on the sugar reform at the November Council.
I have operated in full transparency throughout the process to allow Parliament to play its role to the fullest.
But, finally, let me say to those of you who are critical here today that we owe much credit to the many committees and members of this House who have provided very valuable input over the last 12 months.
The reality is that you have managed successfully to influence the shape of the reform – a reform that will secure sustainability of this sector in Europe and a reform that allows us to offer a real alternative to those farmers and to those regions that will be most affected by the restructuring.
It concerns important environmental legislation which relates to access to environmental information and the right of citizens to participate in decision-making.
The Århus Convention, ratified in the European Community by the Member States and the EU, will be implemented by means of three directives, for which the first two pillars have already passed through the codecision procedure and conciliation.
These pillars concern the transparency of environmental information and the Community’s right to be involved.
I have always stressed the importance of the rights of citizens regarding matters of the environment.
Openness and transparency are the lifeblood of democracy and a fundamental component of our own safety.
The regulation now before us, which extends the scope of the provisions of the Århus Convention to Community level, is nevertheless in danger of acquiring some worrying features.
It is one thing to monitor and regulate how, for example, an authority applies and interprets the provisions of environmental legislation but quite another to monitor and regulate how a democratically elected legislator goes about his or her task.
The most crucial areas in tomorrow’s vote relate to Amendments 22, 24 and 25.
Article 230 of the Treaty allows citizens to institute proceedings in the Court of Justice of the European Communities if a decision affects the citizen directly and individually, which is only right and proper from the point of view of democracy.
This decision, in conjunction with Amendment 25, will clear the way for examining the legality of the original decision, and not only its procedural but also its substantive legality, and will thus give NGOs the power ultimately to evaluate the work of the Community’s institutions.
These amendments are essential for requests for reviews to remain within controllable limits and in order to obtain additional criteria for the nature of the work of NGOs.
The letter fails to mention that the environmental organisations do by no means aspire to the same level as companies, regarding which there is a call for this decision to affect them ‘directly and individually’, in other words, as an interested party.
For that reason, citizens’ rights should not abuse the right to access to justice in order to put the brakes on projects or provide a forum for organisations’ fund collecting campaigns.
This regulation has been proposed in parallel to the decision to ratify the Århus Convention, which contains obligations not only for the public authorities in the Member States, but also for the Community institutions.
That is why the proposal covers all three parts of the Convention, namely access to environmental information, public participation and access to justice.
The common position improves and completes the initial Commission proposal from numerous points of view.
To be specific, as far as access to environmental information is concerned, a new Article 6 is proposed which refers to the application of the exemptions relating to access to environmental information, as proposed in the European Parliament's amendment.
The common position also incorporates elements of the European Parliament's amendments relating to more detailed requirements for public participation in the preliminary preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment.
It is worth noting that the organisations in question no longer need to act at Community level in order to exercise this right.
The Commission is in a position to accept the changes in question, given that the current wording retains the obligation of the organisations in question to have environmental protection at Community level as their basic objective.
The Commission was also able to accept changes to the provisions which refer to the outcome of the internal review and the facility for non-governmental organisations to take recourse to the Court of Justice.
The Council effected the changes in question in a bid to avoid a text which might clash with the rules of the Convention concerning the right of access of individuals and groups of individuals.
The Commission, as the guardian of the Treaties, endorses the Council's intention in this case, especially given that the common position is in keeping with the Århus Convention, which allows the contracting parties to adopt criteria for public access to justice.
I believe that the Århus Convention, which is already being transposed in some countries, such as Spain, is clearly a victory for the possibility of transparency, training and so forth.
Nevertheless, I am extremely worried that positions that move away from the common sense demonstrated by the Council and from the Commission's position intend to give non-governmental organisations excessive legal capacity, in my view, as Mrs Korhola has said.
I believe that democracy must be symmetrical.
It is not logical that non-governmental organisations should have more rights than local councils in this field.
Furthermore, there is a principle in law, that of direct interest, which has been the subject of much debate in legal history and which is normally applied to the family or to certain problems that occur in the territory in question.
Nevertheless, I believe that applying direct interest to any NGO in Europe would take us into the realm of infinite law, and we would have no idea where that would end.
The main principle, which we have raised here many times, is that the concept of sustainable development is integral, it must relate to a specific place, and in one place certain things can be done for economic and social reasons which cannot be done in another place.
The idea, therefore, that certain NGOs, often not located in the relevant place, can demand this right by virtue of their interest in the environment, seems to me to be excessive.
The Convention will have to enhance transparency, responsibility and good governance in such diverse areas of public action as energy, agriculture, transport and tourism, by recognising a series of rights aimed at guaranteeing the effective participation of the citizens in public decision-making processes.
Furthermore, the right to promote the administrative or legal resources they consider appropriate must be recognised when it is judged that those rights have been violated by public administrations.
With regard to the specific aspects of the report, I believe that in relation to access to justice for NGOs, the latter should not have excessively restrictive requirements, such as the requirement to work at international level and, above all, that of not having been registered for more than two years for the presentation of requests.
In fact, the directive on public access to environmental information does not lay down specific rules for banks.
I would like the Commission to agree on these two specific issues because I believe them to be the most important ones.
Mr President, the application of the Arhus Convention to the European institutions constitutes a major step forward, because it helps – as is necessary – to make the process of drawing up European legislation transparent, so that the public has more of a say in the preparation of environmental plans and environmental programmes.
This regulation enhances democracy in the environmental area.
To prevent many hundreds of NGOs from bringing minor objections before the court, amendments are used to prescribe strict conditions for NGOs who can make a request for internal review.
Even with those conditions – that are now before us and that the rapporteur has presented to us separately – in place, there will be many NGOs who can submit requests of this kind.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has therefore, quite correctly, supported the Commission’s original proposal and re-introduced this element.
The European Parliament has decided to take proceedings against the Commission in the case of the brominated flame retardant BDE, on which the Commission has lifted the ban without having been given the right to do so by the legislator.
The environmental organisations too need, however, to be able to take action when EU laws are broken.
Individual citizens cannot have decisions in the environmental sphere tested because there is no individual interest.
What we have here, of course, is a case of David and Goliath.
Without transparency and grass-roots access to the Court of Justice, the EU is developing into an apology for a democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left supports all the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety to this regulation on the EU’s application of the Århus Convention.
Secondly, we want environmental organisations to be given a genuine right to take legal proceedings when the environmental rules are not observed.
We are therefore opposed to any restriction on this right, for example that proposed by the rapporteur in Amendments 28 to 30.
Only by incorporating the individual interests of the relevant groups in compromise legislative texts can we produce good legislation.
Permit me to allude to my previous occupation as a veterinary surgeon when I say that we are castrating ourselves and depriving ourselves of power here.
We are calling ourselves into question and, in my opinion, we cannot allow this to happen.
Its importance is decisive for further progress with environmental policy.
This will quickly smooth out the problems of bureaucracy which have to date been the basic brake on all similar endeavours.
To close, I believe that an important job has been done and I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her efforts. &#160;&#160; From its inception the Århus Convention was praised as one of the most ambitious achievements of democracy in the area of the protection of the human environment, not merely because it lays down a human right of the new generation, namely the right of people to a healthy and high-quality environment, but also because of the logical assumption that involving citizens would raise the level of environmental protection, firstly through the adoption of measures and then through the implementation of those measures.
On the basis of the Århus Convention, in pursuit of an improved implementation of environmental protection legislation, the Commission envisaged certain non-governmental organisations having the right of access to the highest judicial instance, the European Court.
The logical conclusion to be drawn with regard to this regulation is that non-governmental organisations play an important role in the protection of the environment.
It is possible that this would lead to a reduction rather than an increase in their responsibility in the implementation of environmental legislation. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I would ask the Commissioner to conclude this debate with a few explanations.
The common position that is the subject of Mrs&#160;Korhola’s report contains no rules whatsoever on access to justice.
The Commissioner has presented rules for access to the first part of the Århus Convention: access to information, but, as things stand, there is no treatment whatsoever of the third pillar of this Convention.
I believe that there is some confusion in this regard.
I should like to add, however, that I consider it absolutely indispensable that non-governmental organisations be given access to justice in the environmental field at European level, so that, if necessary, the practical transposition of European legislation can be examined on site.
This regulation before us has the objective of applying these rights against the EU institutions: Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the ECJ, the European Investment Bank, .
While there are many excellent NGOs and pressure groups, which bring to our attention legitimate concerns on environmental matters and act as watchdogs holding the institutions to account on our behalf, I would urge caution in allowing any self-legitimising group to put an added burden on the institutions and clog up an already overburdened justice system.
While I am opposed to Amendments 2, 7 and 12, my biggest problem is with Amendment&#160;26, which proposes that all NGOs, regardless of the legitimacy of their interests or the transparency of their constitutions, should be granted the right of unfettered instigation of court proceedings against Community institutions for their administrative acts or omissions, such as in enforcing the implementation of EU environmental law.
In some countries, an NGO can be formed with a membership of less than five people.
Bypassing the Treaty with secondary legislation such as the amendments to this regulation makes a mockery of the idea that it is the victim of infringements of the law rather than interested observers – whose motivation and support base may not always be clear – who should be able to seek a remedy.
If the European Parliament wishes to extend the internal or judicial review process, it should do so through an amendment to the Treaty in the first instance.
As a politician, democratically accountable to my electorate, I am also not prepared to delegate my responsibility to unelected, unaccountable bodies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the role of the Århus Convention is to promote public control on environmental issues.
The most important part of the Convention is public participation in the decision-making process.
Member States were not brave enough to accept the entire concept of the Convention.
I have tabled an amendment along with other colleagues, which is the 23rd one on this matter.
That is why we support this report in the form that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety adopted it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation must indeed ensure that all Community institutions apply the provisions of the Århus Convention, an agreement that intends to increase public involvement in environmental concerns.
I am delighted that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has firmed up the Council’s common position.
In other words, the same obligations and rights should exist at EU level as they do at Member State level.
As far as access to environmental information is concerned, the Commission cannot accept Amendments 4, 14 or 15, which aim to apply the regime of exceptions to the provisions of the 2003-2004 directive to access to environmental information and requests for information addressed to Community institutions.
The proposed regulation is being extended so that existing Community legislation on access to documents, as provided for in Regulation No 1049/2001, covers all Community institutions.
The specific amendments by the European Parliament could bring about, as a corollary, the creation of two, partially overlapping regimes of access to documents, which would not help transparency and legal clarity.
The new Article 6 of the common position already covers the exceptions in question and access to environmental information; these exceptions must be expressly clarified anyway in accordance with the requirements of the Århus Convention.
Amendments 7 and 12, which aim to include in the definition of environmental information the degree of progress of access procedures cannot be accepted.
There is no such provision in the Århus Convention.
The Commission can accept Amendment 16 making provision for a deadline of 15 working days for persons applying for access to be informed, if the Community institution does not have the information requested, and to be referred to the public authority which appears to have the information in question.
As far as public participation is concerned, the Commission cannot accept its extension to policies, as called for in Amendment 5 and, partially, in Amendments 19 and 20.
This is a broad meaning and no such requirement is contained in the legislation addressed to Member States.
The Commission cannot accept there is a need to call for public participation for plans and programmes funded by Community institutions, as provided for in Amendment 8.
The Århus Convention refers to public participation for plans and programmes prepared by public authorities.
In addition, permission for infrastructure works with a significant environmental impact is granted at the level of the Member State, where public participation is provided for.
The Commission is able to accept in part Amendment 19, as regards the extension to the deadline for submitting comments within the framework of written consultations from 4 to 8 weeks.
It can also accept Amendment 20 adding the obligation of the Community institution to take account of the results of public participation.
This specific obligation derives from the Århus Convention and corresponds to the Commission's current administrative practice.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment 23 extending the circle of organisations with the right to request an internal review from non-governmental organisations with the basic objective of protecting the environment to those which also or alternatively promote sustainable development.
This specific criterion would be very difficult to define and might cover a broad range of organisations for which there would be no justification in recognising, for environmental purposes, the right of access to such a review procedure.
The recognition of a special regime for environmental non-governmental organisations, the basic object of which is to defend environmental interests, is perfectly in keeping with the spirit of the Århus Convention.
The Commission is satisfied with the present provision in the common position, which talks of the Community dimension of the environmental objective which the non-governmental organisation should promote within the Community.
Finally, Amendments 22, 24 and 25 refer to the outcome of the internal review of administrative acts adopted by the Community institutions in accordance with Article 10 and how they relate to the provisions on access to the Court of Justice in accordance with Article 12.
The Commission can accept in principle Amendments 26 and 27 concerning adaptation to the rules of procedure and the date of entry into force of the regulation.
I shall send the European Parliament Secretariat a full list of the Commission's views on the amendments. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
Parliament has definitely helped make this directive better and more forceful.
I should like to highlight a number of specific parts of this report as being particularly important.
Firstly, rules on embankment safety have been devised to prevent this type of disaster from occurring in the future.
This directive is to put an end to the era in which waste and damaged sites were left behind.
So that it might do this, a financial guarantee is introduced for which companies must earmark resources for the purpose of rehabilitating the sites at which they have engaged in mining.
When it comes to the new Member States, above all Romania but also Bulgaria, we reached a stage during the conciliation when these countries produced declarations in which they undertook not to seek exemptions but instead to respect all the rules of the directive.
The arguments against these measures have mainly been financial in the sense that the measures would cost companies money.
It is important to realise, however, that the environmental costs of rehabilitating the land would be part of companies’ production costs and that this is only right.
A directive such as this favours serious mining companies that accept responsibility for their environmental policy.
This directive will also make it easier to produce new environmental technology, enabling the historical waste to be dealt with, and it will provide European industry with an opportunity in this sphere.
Last but not least – and most important of all – is the fact that it will benefit the environment and the health of those who live in the areas concerned.
It is important to realise, however, that under the EU’s other environmental legislation, above all the Framework Water Directive, there is an absolute obligation to deal with those cases in which historic waste is seen to lead to water status deterioration.
Finally, I should also like to take this opportunity to thank those with whom I have worked, including the shadow rapporteurs for the various groups whose constructive cooperation I have enjoyed.
I should like to thank the officials of the European Commission who, this time, have been excellent to collaborate with, together with the Presidency, which conducted a very constructive conciliation.
I should like to thank the European Parliament teams which took part in the conciliation meeting with the Council on 6 December 2005.
The discussions in the Conciliation Committee were constructive and I believe that Parliament achieved concessions on the vitally important issues of financial guarantees, excavation sites, transitional provisions and acceding countries and on a number of other important points.
The directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries is, therefore, a success for the environment, for enterprises in the mining industry, and thus also for human beings.
Environmentally sustainable activity does not just consist in doing nothing and making unspoilt nature the measure of all things, so to speak.
These should be used by people for people according to the principle of sustainability.
Yet all intervention in nature also has concomitant effects; it would not be correct to say that mining has no impact on nature and the environment.
As a result of the positive developments, technical possibilities and heightened environmental sensitivity of today, the yardsticks we use now are different from those we used just 50&#160;years ago.
We must also continue to stay on the ball at all times so that we can make use of the new possibilities that will undoubtedly present themselves in 5, 10 or even 20&#160;years’ time.
Still the Commission and the European Parliament understood the problem and initiated a directive on the management of such waste.
The PSE Group supported the report from the beginning.
At second reading, together with other colleagues, I tabled many amendments for stricter regulation.
In general we obtained a good directive.
Member States, would-be Member States and third countries should respect the new regulatory framework.
We have to monitor the strict implementation of this directive. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of waste from various extractive industry sites is a key document in terms of environmental and health protection.
It is also of major significance for the extractive industries, which will have to bear the cost of implementing it, and it will have a major impact in that it will allow an agreement to be reached and the interests of all parties to be reconciled.
This directive is worthy of our approval.
For example, mining waste frequently contains mineral components that should be reclaimed in order to limit the need for further excavations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Union and its Parliament are frequently criticised by many, for introducing laws that are unnecessary or at least not absolutely necessary.
This regulation was created in the aftermath of the mining disaster that took place in 2000 in Baia Mare, Romania, to make sure that the environment and nature do not suffer such pollution ever again.
When disaster strikes, all we can do is to limit and mitigate damages and pay compensation, but, as we have seen in this case, with little success.
However, the Directive does not only regulate future mines and their waste material, but also the old, abandoned mines and those that are still operating, often in a deplorable technical condition.
On behalf of Hungary, I would also like to thank them for identifying with my concern and proposal, as a result of which we achieved that the acceding Romania and Bulgaria are not applying for transitional exemption from the implementation of the Directive, as demonstrated in their attached statement.
The Eastern Carpathians hold many treasures, and their extraction constitutes an important economic foundation of regional development.
However, extraction should only be performed in a sustainable manner, taking into account the interests of the environment and nature to the highest extent.
In this case, too, of course, a compromise does mean that the regulation gives rise to certain costs, but I believe that these costs are justified and can certainly be borne by industry, since assets as important as human health are at stake.
This means that the funds necessary to at least institute countervailing measures are lacking, and the general public is left to bear the consequences again.
I am aware of the fact that Members belonging to the Dutch Social Democrats, who are sadly not here at the moment, even referred to it in a report as a disgraceful directive for swimming pool water.
It deals, of course, with coastal waters and lakes.
Parliament did not have any doubts about this when the House debated this very point at first reading.
What is more important though, is that the Member States, and especially the Member States, felt that a directive was needed.
In any event, after more than 12 years of discussion, a compromise has been struck – albeit with difficulty – between the Council and Parliament, which I assume will be translated into legislation tomorrow.
The new directive provides for cleaner bathing water along beaches and lakes in Europe, better information for bathers and less red tape for local authorities.
Across the whole of the European Union, more than 80% of bathing water locations already meet the stricter standards and in a number of Member States, even more than 90% of the swimming locations comply with them.
At the moment, bathers can only access the quality that pertains to the previous year with some difficulty and only on the Internet.
For a long time, the European Parliament and the governments were at loggerheads over the question of how strict the standards should be and how high the associated costs for the Member States.
We have reached a compromise that is satisfactory for all parties, and I think that in this respect, whilst the British Presidency deserves a compliment, it is the Commission – and you, Commissioner, in particular – who have been instrumental in bringing this compromise about.
I should also like to thank many of the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in this respect.
I cannot quite describe the term myself, but I am sure that you can.
I am at any rate interested to see if the Commission will also use this study in its 2008 assessment report, because it contains quite a few terse comments about the directive as we are about to adopt it.
After 2015, I will be at least happier to take a dip.
I should like to thank the delegation of the European Parliament which took part in the conciliation meeting with the Council on 12 October 2005, and vice-president Mr Trakatellis and the rapporteur Mr Maaten in particular, and to congratulate them on their outstanding work and on the result achieved.
Discussions in the Conciliation Committee were complicated.
However, at least, as far as the vital question of introducing ambitious standards for the classification category of adequate quality is concerned, I consider that Parliament achieved noteworthy results and a significant improvement in comparison with the Council's original position.
The quality standards may not ultimately be as strict as certain would have wished – and indeed the minimum quality standards are not as strict as those which the Commission had originally proposed.
Nonetheless, they were strengthened considerably during discussions in the Conciliation Committee, with the result that the final text is a considerable improvement over the provisions which apply today and which date from the time when the directive was issued in 1975 and, as such, have been overtaken by modern scientific data.
The Commission supports the conciliation text with particular satisfaction and, as such, I would like to hope that Parliament will ratify the positive result achieved by its negotiating team.
Thus, this evening, we are closing the debate on two very important directives, which no doubt will improve the environment and protect the health of European citizens. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I am obliged to the rapporteur for the very good work he has done, and to the Commission for this proposal for a directive, in particular.
To be frank, I was a little disappointed in the Commission when it gave its opinion on the Council common position.
I should really have liked to see more support for a tougher, more sharply defined line on bathing water quality as, after all, we have considerably watered down the standards to which the Commissioner referred.
With the support of the Commission, we could have put together a tougher directive, one that obliged Member States to introduce higher standards without the States being faced with the heavy spending that is so often talked about.
Let us not forget that the main problem today as regards the pollution of bathing water is not localised pollution, but diffuse sources of pollution – agricultural sources in particular, of course.
I am now pinning my hopes on 2008, when the Commission is due to review the directive and assess the situation prevailing by then.
May I, then, anticipate this by asking the Commissioner, who is of course a keen swimmer, to make sure that his services carry out this assessment accordingly and perhaps after all raise the health standards to OECD levels, on which all States have in fact agreed, so that we do not find ourselves attempting to level down the health standards in this field.
Landlocked countries such as Hungary and Austria should have a right to their own bathing water as well.
The area around Hungary’s bathing lakes is subject to a ban on certain industrial and agricultural activities, and the sewage system covers almost 100% of households.
The present compromise is acceptable to us but means a lot of work for my country: some beaches will be closed and many others should be improved, but that is the cost of a clean and healthy environment.
The compromise on a stricter version of the category ‘sufficient’ is to be welcomed.
Public information on water quality at bathing sites is also very important.
Indeed, on all beaches around Lake Balaton there are huge information signs written in Hungarian, English, German and Russian.
Of course, we could add French, hoping that more tourists will come from France and other French-speaking countries.
In my last speech, at second reading, I had a rather tough tone, due to the one-minute limit and the speed of a heavy debate.
Now I should like to thank Mr Maaten for his report and readiness for constructive compromise.
Most are clinically benign to moderate, but some are serious and a few are fatal.
They have indeed been working on this issue for many years, and one would expect the parameters used to monitor the quality of bathing water to be as strict as possible.
Thus it is that after many years of talking, discussion and arguing – mainly about things that, if seen purely from a common sense point of view, are crystal clear – we end up in a conciliatory position in which we reduce the possible economic damage to countries with unhygienic bathing waters and increase the collateral risk of causing ill health among our citizens.
Many colleagues will disagree strongly with what I say, but how else can it be explained when, for example, we have invented a distinction, as far as health risks are concerned, between inland and coastal bathing waters, and we are prepared to accept that inland waters can be almost twice as unhealthy as coastal waters yet still be of sufficient quality for bathing in.
That is why my group will be abstaining in tomorrow’s vote.
According to the peer-reviewed article about to appear in the scientific journal , which was mentioned by Mr Maaten, these values will bring no improvement for the quality of fresh water at all.
Third, after a strong fight for higher standards, Parliament’s delegation suddenly dropped all of its demands after the Council offered a minimal increase of one of the two standards of the sufficient category.
Finally, the process by which this final agreement was reached was highly unsatisfactory, with last-minute technical proposals being introduced – verbally, not in writing – and with no time to properly study their implications.
I should also like to thank the Commission for its cooperation, because without the ambitious proposal it tabled, it would not have been possible to tighten up the criteria.
Moreover, the division that has been created between salt and fresh water is based on very limited information, and all of this means that the protection of bathers has improved far less than it might have done.
I should like to draw the attention of the Commission and the Council to the article that Mr Maaten mentioned, which will be published next month.
I trust that this directive will assist in their achievement of that status.
It is important to realise that the Bathing Water Directive should be considered in that wider context. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to point out that the ten years of effort it has taken to draw up this document have been ten years of constant agreement and cooperation.
This demonstrates how effective European Union policy can be, because, from the outset, local councils, local authorities and the States began to work to improve the condition of beaches and bathing waters, both inland and on the coast.
I am therefore pleased and I would point out that this demonstrates the extent to which the quality of the environment adds value to the economic system, to industries and also to social welfare. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am much obliged to Mr&#160;Maaten for the good work he has done and for the negotiations conducted by the delegation from this House in the run-up to the third reading.
I should like to confine myself to a few of the medical aspects of the directive.
Bathing water is not free from germs, but low in germs.
After all, the limit values of 330 intestinal enterococchi for inland waters and 185 for coastal waters that have now been agreed – for the ‘sufficient’ category – represent a reduction in health risk to bathers from 12% to 8%, and ‘health risk’ does not necessarily mean illness.
The same goes for bacteria, with counts of 900 and 500 for the ‘sufficient’ and ‘excellent quality’ categories, respectively.
This is progressively gaining in importance: there has been a rapid increase in the number of people falling ill in Europe as a result of enteroviruses and noroviruses.
I support the directive. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to follow on seamlessly from where Mr&#160;Ulmer left off.
For my electoral district, which directly adjoins Lake Constance, the Bathing Water Directive represents a difficult balancing act between protection of consumers – bathers – on the one hand, and nature conservation and tourism on the other.
The compromise we have reached on pollution requirements and quality standards in the ‘sufficient’ category, as Mr&#160;Ulmer put it, is a fair compromise between all the three interests that meet there.
For this reason, I have found that this compromise has met with a great deal of acceptance back home, for which I am much obliged to all the MEPs concerned, the rapporteur included.
It is also important to point out, however, that, by reducing the number of categories of polluter from 19 to just 2, we have found a solution that also serves the objectives of better lawmaking and less-bureaucratic regulation.
It is also to be welcomed that Parliament did not keep to its original intention of extending the scope of the Bathing Water Directive to other water-related leisure activities, too, and for this I am obliged to all the MEPs concerned. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; &#160;The next item is the report (A6-0383/2005) by Mrs&#160;Ferreira, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the environmental aspects of sustainable development (2005/2051(INI)). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank all those who helped improve my report, and I should like to say straightaway that I shall be supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
This assessment is undisputed in the Chamber, cutting across traditional political boundaries, and has led the Commission to incorporate sustainable development into the Union’s priorities.
Whilst the Union has adopted important legislation intended to reduce industrial waste and to make the cars we use more energy efficient and environmentally friendly, the significant increase in road traffic has meant that its efforts have come to nothing.
There is an urgent need for measures to be taken – such as the reports already adopted, the one by Mrs&#160;Ries and the one expected to be adopted on REACH – to offset the negative impact of the environment on health.
It also entails a breakdown of the implementation of sustainable development at all international, national and local levels.
Similarly, if we want to move sustainable development forward, we should no longer accept that the legal basis for draft laws on the environment or health should be the sacred cow of the free movement of goods.
The Commission has a responsibility, but protecting the environment is not sufficiently high on its agenda.
For example, when one reads in the thematic strategy on waste that there could be a return to national approaches whereby the Member States themselves would set their modes of managing waste, that, to my mind, would be a retrograde step.
I should like now, on behalf of the Commission, to welcome the contribution by the European Parliament to the review of the European Union sustainable development strategy.
The exceptional Ferreira report contains many valuable proposals for the review, putting particular emphasis on the environmental aspects of sustainable development.
Many of the proposals are reflected in the Commission communication.
Following the approval of the Commission communication on the sustainable development strategy, the Commission wishes to cooperate more closely with Parliament and the Council and, on the basis of this communication, to get a European sustainable development strategy approved in June.
The Ferreira report will be very useful in the consultations leading up to the European Council in June.
Allow me to analyse further the Commission communication which we approved on 13 December and to add certain comments on the Ferreira report.
The Commission communication is the third and final stage in a detailed review procedure which has lasted over 18 months and in which many interested agencies have participated from the whole of Europe.
The Commission presented three communications on the strategy in 2005: the guidelines in February, the draft statement of principles on sustainable development which the Council approved in June and the revised strategy with objectives and a more effective monitoring procedure on 13 December 2005.
The Ferreira report focuses mainly on the environmental aspects of sustainable development.
These aspects are indeed very important, given that non-sustainable environmental trends constitute some of the main threats in relation to our present and future prosperity.
In an effort to suppress all non-sustainable trends, it also aims to maximum possible synergisms between these three dimensions.
Sustainable development addresses issues which truly relate to citizens.
The new strategy proposes a long-term vision for a sustainable Europe which goes well beyond 2010.
Sustainable development is the primary objective of the Union.
Both the Lisbon Strategy and the sustainable development strategy are predicated on implementing this objective in a fast-changing world.
The Lisbon Strategy and the sustainable development strategy reinforce each other.
The new strategy addresses some of the weaknesses in the previous strategy, such as unclear priorities and the lack of a clear monitoring mechanism and it confirms the main challenges, clarifies the objectives, responds to the existing, often fairly questionable objectives within the framework of the corresponding policies and defines a new and stricter monitoring mechanism.
It pays particular attention to action and effective application in all policy sectors and the participation of all the interested agencies in the relevant procedure.
We wish to go beyond words and to identify priorities for the next five years.
The Commission wishes to cooperate with Parliament and the Council over the coming months, under the aegis of the Austrian Presidency, so that a common strategy can be agreed which will be broadly supported by all the institutions of the European Union and the Member States.
A strategy agreed at European level is needed if we want to galvanise European society into making important changes and to put the European Union on a more sustainable course. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, this report by Mrs&#160;Ferreira is a very extensive, healthy, sound and also critical policy paper on the key fields of environmental and social policy, and I am obliged to her for it.
Yet the more we in this House discuss this issue, all the stronger is my impression that, while we espouse quite wonderful principles at heart, the unfortunate fact is that the reality of practical implementation does not look so rosy.
Yet if we think back to the last sitting before Christmas, we recall that the majority in this House decided the opposite, under pressure from the Council and the transport lobby – here I am referring to the Eurovignette Directive – thus precluding any chance of recovering external costs, specifically costs to the environment and health.
The Commission must set medium- and short-term objectives.
Monitoring and evaluation activities are also necessary, as indicated in the conclusions in paragraph&#160;64 of this motion for a resolution.
A real change in our modes of production and consumption is needed: inaction on this will come at a high price and have serious consequences, especially for the growing number of poor people in our society.
The rate of natural resource consumption in Europe currently exceeds our biological capacity by more than a factor of two.
What this means is that our continent is appropriating a disproportionate share of the world’s natural resources, whether terrestrial or marine.
Let me refer Members to the communication adopted by the European Commission on 15&#160;October&#160;1998, which committed the EU to improving the integration of its environmental and energy policies, and which contained concrete measures to this end.
Before our very eyes, a decision has been taken by politicians to construct the largest energy network of its kind, incorporating a double gas pipeline and a system of electric cables, along the bottom of the Baltic Sea.
Sustainable development concerns all Union policies, including, in particular, cooperation with the rest of the world.
I hope that the strategy announced under the Austrian Presidency is more ambitious and gives more specific answers on the subject.
How seriously we take the concerns of sustainable development will also become clear from the development of Union finances in future.
If environmental and species protection are important Community objectives, that must also be reflected in the budget.
We must do our utmost to ensure that instruments, such as LIFE, that work well and are so important for the environment in Europe are allocated sufficient funds.
The Eco-design Directive adopted last year provides it with ample opportunities for this.
I hope that the Commission’s first implementing measures to this directive will soon be in place, namely for those products with high potential for reducing emissions of greenhouse gases at low cost. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, firstly, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;Ferreira for a splendid report, which unfortunately received a couple of nasty dents in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has put forward three amendments: one calling for more ambitious targets in terms of reducing greenhouse gases, another calling for an end to dependence on nuclear energy and a practical one concerning the problems with waste that we have due to an inconsistent approach to drinks packaging.
Each year, Denmark alone has 400 to 600 million German beer and soft drink cans floating about the countryside or on their way through the waste incineration system because the Germans allow the Danes to avoid paying deposits on beer cans bought in Germany.
The financial situation undoubtedly forms part of this, too, and so not only should we be deliberating where we could be spending still more money, but we must also ask ourselves how we can spare the young generation excessive debt within our financial programming, whilst setting – possibly different – priorities; because debts left behind by Member States for the young generation surely cannot be considered sustainable either.
I should like to examine one point that seems to me to be very important in connection with this directive.
We have to show these farmers that sustainability has benefits for them, too, by paying them compensation or offering them other ways of earning a living.
For this reason, we must stipulate in this directive that an effective financing system is necessary for the Natura 2000 network.
I therefore support this directive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, my thanks go in particular to Anne Ferreira, and it is an agreeable opportunity to be here speaking on this subject.
Sustainable development is a phrase that should apply to all EU policy and decision-making.
Sustainable development cannot be separated from industrial, competition or economic policy, and even less so from energy, traffic or agricultural policies.
For this reason, it was a slight disappointment that this sustainable development strategy was not reviewed at the same time as the EU’s strategy on competitiveness.
EU competitiveness, of course, relies on increased growth being environmentally friendly both in production and consumption.
The cost to the environment must be priced in.
If we set sufficiently high targets, they will also encourage the development, for example, of new environmental technologies, which in turn will boost European growth, and in this way we will attain real sustainable development. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12&#160;noon.
