The Agreement came into effect as of 1 January 2007 for a period of six years.
Currently, a provisional application of the Agreement is in force through a Council decision which was adopted on 21 December 2006.
The broader agreement takes the form of a Council decision including a joint declaration and will provide up to EUR 25 million per year to Greenland on the basis of cooperation in areas other than fisheries.
Therefore, one can conclude that the initialling of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement does not merely represent the closure of the negotiations conducted over the past year, but also the closure of what was initialled back in 2003 with the mid-term review of the Fourth Fisheries Protocol and the Council conclusions of February 2003.
Furthermore, in relation to amendments 4 and 6 on the reporting requirements to Parliament, I would like to stress that the Commission already complies with the transmission of this information in line with the current interinstitutional arrangement.
Moreover, concerning amendment 5 on the Member States' compliance with reporting requirements, it should be stressed that the Commission already examines whether catch reporting is respected.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, it is a great pleasure finally to be able to debate a fisheries agreement with Greenland that begins to respect the minimum rules of financial transparency and non-discrimination between shipowners and Member States.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, in one minute I would simply like to say that I am absolutely delighted with what Commissioner Borg has said about this Agreement.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, the ALDE Group welcomes the fisheries partnership agreement with Greenland.
Amendment 7 offers an alternative mechanism to achieve the optimal use of fishing opportunities and one that does not give rise to such problems.
This means, in other words, that there is a need for a transfer mechanism which habilitates the Commission in case of under-utilisation and with due respect to the principle of relative stability and to Article 25 of the basic regulation to transfer in due time unutilised fishing opportunities to ensure their optimum utilisation.
Taking into account the transfers to Norway, it ranks at around 80 %.
If one eliminates the transfers to Norway, it will go down to about 65 % utilisation, and I think that we owe it to the public to achieve much better results than that.
Indeed, this article is subject to discussions in the Council and will be debated in the Council and decided upon, hopefully, on 11 June.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 22 May.
