Towards a new culture of urban mobility (debate) The next item is the report by Reinhard Rack, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on 'Towards a new culture of urban mobility'.
Let me also thank my colleagues in the committee, in my group and in my own office for their work.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Rack for the text he has drawn up with Parliament's assistance.
I shall go and visit him so that next time, as he suggests, we can find an intermodal means of moving around our cities.
It puts urban mobility at the heart of the European debate about the best means of ensuring mobility on a basis that is sustainable for society today and for future generations.
As you know, the consultation on the Green Paper ended on 15 March and we received more than 400 contributions.
The report identifies the main spheres of action in a structured, targeted and also very clear fashion, and so I would compliment Professor Rack once again.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully endorse the observation contained in the report: there is an urgent need for new thinking and innovative concepts on mobility in our cities.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if Europe is at all rich, it is rich in its variety.
I am, therefore, a little worried, after hearing the first speakers, that we will lose the balance that our rapporteur set out in his report between what can be decided locally, under the subsidiarity principle, and the little we can contribute here as a European Union.
I think that half of the accidents in the European Union happen in urban areas.
Commissioner, in conclusion, we are counting on you to quickly come up with as concrete an action plan as possible with a clear division of responsibilities between the different policy levels, but a plan that will certainly include a major role for the European Union.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Reinhard Rack for his excellent report and I thank the Commission for having firstly drawn up the Green Paper, which is now the subject of a broad consultation and which is going to result in an action plan by the end of 2008.
There is a fundamental link between urban planning concepts and urban mobility.
These urban planning concepts, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, must take account of urban transport not just in terms of the cities and towns, the urban territory, but also, as my colleague Mr Rack said, at a suburban level.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too want to offer warm thanks to the rapporteur.
Instead of creating a concrete and helpful framework for urban areas in the 27 Member States, the majority of committee members opted for a superficial text: towns are to become greener, there will be less noise and a better quality of life!
The report is as vague about how to achieve that as the EU Commission was in its Green Paper on urban mobility.
Emissions from traffic have in fact risen by 30% since 1999, while emissions from other sources have fallen by 10%.
Thirdly, we want to improve transport safety by setting a general speed limit of 30 km/hr, while allowing towns to set their own, higher speeds for certain roads.
On the one hand, the report states in various places that the European Union has a role in the realisation of urban mobility plans, and then elsewhere in the report it states that urban mobility is a responsibility of the European cities and local authorities and, on the grounds of the subsidiarity principle, the European Union should only have a limited regulatory role.
I think that a general approach would have been more practical.
I realise that this approach is less ambitious, but I think that we should remember that urban mobility is a matter for the European cities and local authorities.
The European Union can extend a helping hand by means of directed funding and the exchange of relevant information, but EU regulations are not needed in this area, nor are they desirable.
Urbanization and agglomeration have become a European problem because they affect the wellbeing of all European citizens.
Urban transport policy must be decided and formulated locally and the local authorities must be in charge of planning.
I ask you to ensure that we do not end up with that situation. (SK) As an architect/town planner, who also has many years' experience as a regional politician in local and regional government, I can certainly confirm that the issue of urban mobility is extremely topical and complex, and I want to thank the rapporteur for his approach.
I believe that research and development offers considerable, as yet unexploited potential when it comes to new safer and environmentally-friendly means of transport and sustainable transport systems.
Everyone must help to solve our transport problems: the EU, cities and their inhabitants, as well as tourists.
This new culture of urban mobility is a true revolution in terms of our way of thinking and travelling.
To be something.' In using these words, I am expressing my complete agreement with this revolution in our behaviour and the urgent need for an integrated and general European approach to this new urban mobility, with emphasis on the consistency of the major principles of successful urban planning.
The Union needs a new urban mobility culture, in which public transportation and bike riding should become more important.
We had to vote on more than 350 draft amendments.
We managed to reduce those 350 draft amendments to a relatively consistent text, which was then adopted by a very large majority in committee, i.e. 27 in favour and 2 against.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) In my opinion, a new approach of urban mobility is essential in a modern city.
For this reason, I consider it to be important to implement practices such as experience exchanges between the administrations of European cities, urban optimisation databases at European level, as well as to encourage citizens to change the way in which they approach the issue of personal transportation in the urban environment.
