We will take the priority questions, and then we will divide Question Time in half between Commissioner Kuneva and Commissioner McCreevy, as far as we can.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) I shall gladly do so.
In answer to your first question, let me say that I have already decided that parallel trade in counterfeit medicines will be treated as a matter of priority.
But what I try to do is first of all to clarify the situation and to know exactly what is happening.
I am well aware that, for citizens, the fact that the same medicine has completely different prices in different European Member States is difficult to understand.
Since 2005, the Commission has been enforcing EMAS in five of the departments in Brussels and in eight of its buildings.
Member of the Commission. - Yes, I agree with you.
I expect the Commission and its services will target a reduction in emissions to at least the same level as we are requesting of the Member States.
My own question to you is this: do you yourself have a plan for achieving this 30% reduction personally in your own sphere of activity? (DE) As we know, the European Parliament has set a reduction target of 30% by 2012 on the basis of EMAS, and we are keen to see what specific measures are adopted by the European Parliament and its decision-makers.
Usually I do not like to say what I am doing, but I can tell you that in Brussels, for example, I do not have a car - I do not drive a car; I prefer, over the weekend, to walk around, and this is also good for health.
Regarding my official car, I did the following thing, because I expected questions like this: I asked WWF, who have 10 sustainable top projects, to recommend me a car which is the most sustainable, and they recommended one for me and this is what I am using for my services.
Last December, Commissioner Reding (whom I have the pleasure to replace here) welcomed the fast and effective intervention by the Dutch regulator, which imposed a fine totalling EUR 1 million on three Dutch enterprises for illegally installing 'spyware' and 'adware' on more than 22 million computers in the Netherlands and elsewhere.
I do not want to belittle anything the Commission has done; I think it has made this a priority.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I could not agree more.
I would like to connect the first question by Ms McGuinness on protecting consumers from counterfeit and sub-standard medicines with the question by Mr Moraes on protecting consumers against spam.
I wonder, with reference to the parallel market study you referred to, if there are any studies under way on the whole issue of the internet, spam and counterfeit medicines, and in particular on sub-standard medicines that offer no guarantee of safety or efficacy for consumers and patients everywhere.
But I will inform Commissioner Reding about the question and perhaps, in contact with Member States, we can find a solution.
On a personal basis I can only say that I find the idea behind your question absolutely reasonable, and I think we should try to find a way to bring that together.
The Commission is aware that such a problem exists, and in our forthcoming proposals we will try to address that issue.
Member of the Commission. - The first results of the product safety stocktaking were released on 22 November 2007.
In October 2007, Member States reported on initiatives for better cooperation with economic operators and on specific surveillance campaigns on toys.
The Commission also continues to concretely reinforce the market surveillance capacity of the Member States by participating in the financing of well-designed joint market surveillance projects.
This should be helpful for market surveillance intervention once that legislation enters into force.
The Commission will also send experts to carry out a study of business safety measures in the supply chain, and will report further on this in the first quarter of 2008. (FR) Thank you for your response, Commissioner: I am glad that the Commission intends to take a series of measures to reduce, in so far as possible, the risks associated with the circulation of imported toys, particularly those from China.
Member of the Commission. - I think that your question is absolutely valid and very humane.
We can conduct a market surveillance, we have controls and our Rapex system, which is a system through which we can get information through the market and not only when the dangerous goods are stopped at our borders.
I think that is the way forward, and I would ask if that could be done.
Member of the Commission. - If you do not mind, I will start with the second question, because I have a more certain legislative base on which to answer you.
The Commission has already included, in the internal market for goods package, legislation containing a provision requiring economic operators to have available the identity of their supplier.
We also need to keep, additionally, to these New Approach Directives, which set out requirements on how a good is produced, and to ensure constant market surveillance from the point of view of safety, because sometimes safety is even more important, or at least equally important, and does not always coincide with the manner in which the good is produced.
Member of the Commission. - I know that this question is very important, and I would like to assure you that the Commission does not monitor shops during periods of higher consumption, nor does it collaborate with the national consumer organisations on this specific question.
The average prices for this product group over the period 1996-2007 grew by almost 52% in Greece and only by 24% in the EU.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is undertaking measures at different levels aimed at reducing increases in food prices.
Perhaps what we need to do is to educate people about buying quality food at a fair price. - (LT) Last summer, prices started rising in all EU Member States.
Last summer the situation worsened owing to adverse climatic conditions in many producing regions, and this has been the main reason for the exceptionally high increase in food prices in the European Union since September 2007.
Anti-competitive practices have been discovered in the dairy sector in the United Kingdom and in Greece, and fines have been imposed on firms involved in those anti-competitive practices.
Member of the Commission. - I would like to thank the Honourable Member for her interest in the single market review.
Finally, when buying financial services, consumers need to know that in the event of a problem they can have easy access to redress.
With this in mind, we are working to ensure that all existing out-of-court dispute resolution bodies are part of FIN-NET.
Those initiatives will not create confidence and empower consumers overnight, but they are a complement to the initiatives we are taking in other related areas, such as information and advice. (DE) I appreciate that Mr McCreevy has a tight schedule, but others have pressing engagements too.
Member of the Commission. - What we have been attempting to do here in financial education is to get this on the agenda and to make everybody aware, particularly in Member States, that it would probably be a better investment than in lots of other areas if, from a very early stage in the school curriculum, some basic financial literacy was taught.
Because, going through life, whether one ends up as the chief financial controller of a major institution or whether one has a very ordinary job in one's local area, you are definitely going to encounter - at some stage you are going to have to deal with - some major financial transaction such as the buying of a car, a house, a washing machine or whatever.
What Ms Harkin was speaking about goes on to a higher level as to what type of information should be given to a consumer, because she is correct: the amount of information that is given to them and the 48 pages that they get to read in very small writing is there for the sole purpose, in my view (and it has always been my view), of satisfying lawyers, so that if there is a case, they can charge bigger and bigger fees for telling you that you have either won or lost.
Member of the Commission. - The first question relates to the regulated market and I think the questioner extrapolates from the recent difficulties - the difficulties of the past eight months or so - in the financial markets and races to the question of Ms Harkin.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission does not keep consolidated records of the number of European investment firms or the number of investment firms in Greece.
Our expectation that cost of capital would decline is based on a rigorous study carried out by London Economics in 2002.
The main conclusions from the study were that financial integration would lead to a reduction in the cost of equity capital of an average of 50 basis points across the Member States, and a reduction in the cost of market debt for non-financial issuers of 40 basis points.
In November 2007, the foreign equity trading turnover on the Athens exchange was EUR 970 million. (EL) Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for his answer, and I would like to ask in addition whether the Commission has data on the volume of credit intermediation in the European Union, and specifically what percentage of the European GDP this credit intermediation represents.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission sent a letter of formal notice to the Irish authorities following a complaint on 29 June 2007.
This is a very important issue which affects 22 local authorities in Ireland.
Member of the Commission. - It is not our practice to make responses available to the public, but then again those responses often end up in the public domain.
I can confirm that we received a response on 28 September 2007, as the Honourable Member has stated.
The complaint concerns the free movement that I have spoken about under Articles 43 and 56 of the Treaty and this is what it relates to.
That is what we have to do in this particular instance.
Member of the Commission. - On 17 November, the Commission sent a reasoned opinion requesting that Ireland abolish the exemption in place for the Irish Voluntary Health Insurance (VHI) from certain EU rules.
The first non-life insurance directive exempted the VHI, among other institutions, from its rules.
Several amendments to the relevant Irish law in 1996, 1998 and 2001 extended the VHI's scope of business far beyond what it was when the VHI's exemption was first granted.
The Commission expressed this view in the reasoned opinion that was sent to Ireland on 14 November.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission uses all the instruments available to ensure the effective enforcement of consumer rights across Europe.
A new consumer-enforcement network was established at the end of 2006 in the regulation on consumer protection cooperation.
And then we read, in The European Voice on 31 October: 'Air ticket sites faced EU shame: Commission threatens to reveal the names of the hundreds of websites which allegedly mislead consumers'.
But I must reiterate: in many Member States it is only possible to publish the names of the airlines after the investigations and enforcement actions are finished.
Member of the Commission. - I will not deny that I have drawn inspiration from Parliament and its Members many times, so I am glad that in this case it is regarding the specific investigation on air tickets.
I have taken the advice of the Commission's Legal Services and can go further before the Court procedures are over in certain Member States.
If the procedure in one Member State takes four months, I cannot do anything.
