Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time a delegation from this Parliament will travel to Istanbul to take part in the 5th World Water Forum, an event which will bring together all the global players with an interest in water: UN agencies, development banks, States, professional organisations, NGOs and local authorities.
One billion people do not have access to safe drinking water; two and a half billion people do not have access to sanitation; five thousand children under the age of six die every day from diseases caused by lack of clean drinking water or sanitation, or by their poor quality.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) report of 2006 shows there has been flagrant injustice.
This is obviously a central issue for the water sector and the Commission, through its different instruments, is working to increase support to local authorities and reinforce partnerships between local actors from the North and the South.
This is reflected not only in the Water Framework Directive but also in initiatives such as the EU Water Initiative launched at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, which contains the reinforcement of the role of local actors among its objectives.
The Commission's policy, approved in 2002, promotes integrated water resources management in developing countries.
I am pleased to announce that the Water Facility will continue under the 10th European Development Fund and that EUR 200 million has been set aside for that purpose.
The question of donor orphans is an important one in the water sector and the Commission intends to take this into account in the conception of the new Water Facility under the 10th EDF.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would repeat the words spoken in this House several years ago, on 13 March 2006, by Eija-Riitta Korhola.
She described the situation with regard to access to clean water as follows: 'The figures are alarming: 3 900 children die every day because of a lack of clean water.
These 1 billion people have no access to clean water: 4% in the Middle East and North Africa, 4% in Central and Eastern Europe, 19% in South Asia, 25% in sub-Saharan Africa, and 42% in East Africa and the Pacific.
I cannot do other than support this effort, as the whole Committee on Development has also done in the sense of promoting subsidiarity.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, we held a debate in this House and adopted an exacting resolution on the subject of water on the occasion of the Fourth World Forum held in Mexico City.
So, as well as the rights issue, and that of public-private collaboration, we also have to look at building a strong relationship with the Kyoto Protocol.
One of these matters is the situation in Darfur, where President al-Bashir is expelling organisations which, among other things, have been helping to ensure that the people of Darfur have access to water.
Or, as it says in paragraph 12 of the resolution, is it the 'major player'?
For the rest, it contradicts paragraph 2 of the same document, where it is rightly stated that water is a 'public good' to be kept 'under public control'.
In short, we are in the midst of a general crisis in our society's model of development yet we are still clinging to an idea of the market that appropriates nature itself for private gain.
Finally, how does the Commission intend to act upon the will of the European Parliament expressed in its resolution of 15 March on the Fourth World Water Forum, concerning support for and ways of jointly financing water management?
I therefore think that, despite the proposals that have been made and the policies that have been conducted by the European Union, which are a first step forward, we really need to go further than that because, without water, there is no life.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 12 March 2009.
