Reliability of supply, the functioning of energy markets and sustainable management of the environment are indeed issues that are of strategic importance for the European Union and its citizens.
The third package on the natural gas and electricity markets was a very important legislative dossier for the Slovenian Presidency.
Its main purpose, the main purpose of this package, is to continue the process of liberalising energy markets and increasing their efficiency and transparency.
In line with the Commission's proposal, in studying this dossier the Council treated all five legislative proposals as one complete package, and therefore where it was logical retained the same solutions for documents relating to the electricity and natural gas markets.
At the meeting of the Energy Council on 6 June, the Slovenian Presidency secured broad support for key elements of the package of five legislative proposals.
The most important element of this broad consensus is of course the third option of the organisation of energy undertakings.
Here, at the same time, the two original proposals from the Commission were adopted.
These proposals define either full ownership separation, or an independent system operator, while Member States also agreed with the third option, which enables an independent operator of the transmission network to be established.
The option of an independent operator of the transmission network may be used by countries in which, on the entry into force of the new directive, the transmission network will fall to a vertically integrated undertaking.
It can be applied both to the natural gas sector and to electricity.
Regarding the organisation of the transmission system and the system operator, in the context of a vertically integrated undertaking a range of requirements have been established that define the independence of the system operator, balanced and impartial operation, the safety of carrying out necessary investment and also protection of the interests of the vertically integrated undertaking itself.
Another element of the agreement reached in the Council concerns investments by third countries in the European Union.
Here we need to take into account the interests of third countries and their undertakings seeking good partner relations with energy undertakings in Member States.
Another very important area is investments and network development planning, especially the formulation of the European Union's ten-year plan for network development.
With this far-reaching package, the Commission has one objective in mind: the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
However, exactly at a time of high prices, we need to ensure truly effective competition on our energy markets to guarantee that the effects of these prices on our citizens are as limited as possible.
Already now, some of Europe's citizens have benefited from more choice and from more competition to keep prices as low as possible, as well as increasing standards of service and security.
Indeed, in the Vidal-Quadras report of 10 July 2007, the European Parliament showed its determination in achieving such an ambitious policy in the field of energy.
Of course, the reports are very substantial and I will, therefore, focus on only some elements.
The majority of amendments on strengthening consumer rights in Ms Morgan's report are welcomed, and go hand in hand with the intention in the report from Ms De Vits.
A number of amendments also usefully clarify or complement the Commission's proposal, in particular as regards the role of the network operator, the powers of national regulators and an effectively well-functioning and secure internal energy market.
The Commission will look carefully at the wording in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity.
Many of the ideas have also been taken up in Ms Morgan's report, and the Commission can agree with many of these, not least on the need for better information to be rapidly delivered to consumers.
However, the Commission will monitor the correct implementation of the directives, especially to ensure that vulnerable consumers are being defined at national level and that national support schemes are being made available in a transparent and effective way.
The Council reached a broad agreement on all essential parts of the package at the Energy Council of 6 June.
Let me stress that at the Energy Council of 6 June the Commission formally reserved its position on the package, notably to take into account your vote tomorrow.
We have respected subsidiarity, Commissioner, in our request that Member States should come up with their own definitions of energy poverty and an action plan for dealing with the problem.
So, if the Council want a deal on this package, they need to understand that this is a central requirement of Parliament.
So we have asked the national regulatory authorities to use incentives and sanctions to ensure the consumer is protected.
We would like to see much better cooperation between national regulatory authorities and competition authorities.
In this way, we might get to a point where we do not have almost half of the countries in the EU where one company dominates over 70% of the market.
That is why I believe, as rapporteur, that total separation of energy supply from transmission companies or full ownership unbundling - as was suggested initially by the Commission - should be the only option for electricity companies.
You can build as many Chinese walls as you want, but there will be no incentive for companies to encourage competition in the market if they also own transmission companies.
I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs in particular and everybody involved in this package for the cooperation on this very complex dossier.
Mr President, energy is still, for many reasons, one of the European Union's Achilles heels, mainly due to the unwillingness of some government or business elites to recognise that in order to achieve a common energy policy we need to have an integrated internal market that is open to competition, in which consumers can freely choose their suppliers and in which energy flows from Stockholm to Athens and from Lisbon to Vienna with no major obstacles.
In this respect, my report is entirely consistent with the Chichester and Paparizov reports.
I think that we are talking about a subject in which the national interest plays a principal role, in which different market models are contrasted, and in which there are established situations that we have to take into account.
Some of Mrs Morgan's ideas are more debatable, such as social tariffs to deal with the problem of energy poverty, because by doing this we would run the risk of interfering with the markets.
The Council reached a general agreement on the package more than a week ago.
It is the time for sensible, balanced, and, in the best sense of the word, European approaches.
I would like to thank the shadows for their constructive cooperative approach, which enabled us to create a broad consensus.
It is an interesting challenge to find the right balance between leaving the national regulatory authorities alone to do their own thing and to create an EU regulator.
In the course of the debate on this regulation we have become more convinced of the need to go beyond the Commission's proposals for the Agency to create an agency with more independence and more decision-making powers.
If the Agency is to contribute effectively to the development of an integrated competitive energy market for the European Union, the Agency will need more extensive powers and be independent of the Commission in order to handle cross-border situations and deliver effective cooperation between the TSOs and the NRAs - the National Regulatory Authorities.
So we proposed new decision-making powers for the Agency, in particular over the development of the technical codes which my colleagues just mentioned, and the investment plans of the TSOs and a greater regulatory and financial independence.
In this connection, I note that in my country, Belgium, consumers' energy bills will be on average EUR 300 higher in 2008 than in 2007.
That is the only thing we would say with regard to social tariffs, Mr Vidal-Quadras.
If the most serious problem today - as noted by the European Commission - is clear information, or rather a lack of it, I believe that our proposal offers a solution.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (SK) The energy situation in Europe and throughout the world is forcing us to seek new effective solutions for a secure supply in the Member States at reasonable prices, subject to further liberalisation of the energy markets, greater market transparency and non-discrimination.
I welcome the European Commission's effort to achieve progress, to create a space for clear-cut rules and relations between the relevant parties within the energy markets.
However, intentions and reality are two different things altogether.
Those Member States that have other models in place must surely be able to make a choice.
We also have to clearly establish whether or not the proposed solution represents a breach of the right of private ownership.
In this context, I think that compromise Amendment 166, tabled by 40 Members, which enables the application of the so-called third way, represents an optimal solution under the given circumstances and respects the demands of a significant number of Member States.
opinion draftswoman for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (BG) The proposed Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council to amend Regulation 1228 concerning access to the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity aims to accomplish the setting up of the Community energy market.
I believe that in this respect, we can take account of the Treaties in their current state and also the needs for market regulation.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (HU) Thank you for the opportunity to speak, Mr President.
It is for precisely this reason that it is so important that the European Parliament will shortly be giving its blessing to a legislative package that will help to ensure that the electricity market functions more effectively.
The new legislation may at last enable genuine competition to take place in the energy market, and suppliers may finally find themselves in the position of actually having to compete for the consumers.
In addition, the energy package also creates better conditions for the kind of investment that is absolutely vital for the future of Europe's energy supply.
We are taking an important step towards more effective regulation.
Consequently, at this moment, we are expecting that, by its activity, the Agency shall strengthen the role of national regulators and support their operation, allow the technical harmonization of European networks, as a condition for a real internal market and make possible the mutual supply of energy among the Member States, take into consideration the consumers' interest and carefully monitor the developments on the energy market.
The proposed regulations on access to the network in cross-border electricity exchange and common principles on the internal energy market should promote full synchronisation of the networks of the countries of old Europe and the new countries.
I would just like to say one thing in response to her intervention earlier today: do not let Member States run away from their responsibility to fight energy poverty and secure the well-being of their citizens; do not let any government abdicate that responsibility.
I think the Council has a responsibility to make a compromise among its members.
Parliament also has a responsibility to try to contribute to the best possible solution and we have a common responsibility.
The energy markets of today are not good enough.
We have a common responsibility to achieve the best possible solution and that is why I hope you will listen to Parliament and we will listen to you.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteurs and everyone else, but especially Mrs Morgania, who has seen though to its end what was a burdensome task.
Consumers should have the right to change supplier quickly and have access to information on a product's energy background: for example, its effects on the environment.
Both my group and the majority of the committee supported the Commission in the matter of ownership unbundling.
In some countries competition works, and it is easy for consumers to make choices.
Most countries have opened up their markets; but a few continue with their decades-old protectionism policy, whilst they take over the markets of others at the same time.
For example, consumer protection needs to be strengthened.
The Commission still has too many powers in the proposal before us.
This document is an important step towards the creation of a united and competitive EU energy market.
In my opinion, the amended agreement is for the most part in line with the strategic goals of the energy policy of most Member States, that is the creation of an efficient, integrated EU internal market.
In terms of energy projects intended to eliminate energy islands, such as Lithuania and other Baltic states, as well as certain other regions, the political willpower is vitally important, together with general EU policy based on common finances.
It is essential that the idea of cooperation between transmission system operators with a view to developing an integrated European energy market is actually put into practice and does not simply remain a topic of discussion.
I would therefore like to call on my fellow Members to support Amendment 168.
That would help us reach a decision on the issue of connections.
Secondly, there is no doubt that the principle of mutuality remains vital in relations with third-country players.
Their appointment must be transparent and open and their activities free from any influence by politicians or executive governance.
Mr President, I would like to join my fellow Members in expressing thanks for the very good cooperation between the rapporteurs on this package and would like to be the first to respond to an accusation that played a major role in the German discussion about the energy package and particularly about the unbundling of production and transmission networks.
We want fair prices for energy, particularly for electricity.
We also want better conditions for decentralisation - an important precondition for the organisation of transmission networks in order to be able to effectively take account of renewable energies and efficiency.
Many fellow Members who do not agree with the majority decision by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy say that the market, if it is functioning and is left alone politically, can achieve all these goals itself.
In some countries, there is absolutely no transparency at all for price formation.
The Germans and the French, Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy, are supporting domestic companies at present.
What we want to see taken into account are the interests of consumers and the question of whether we are really future-proofing our energy sector or not.
The majority of citizens would not choose a Europe of companies but, at this point, would choose a Europe of consumer protection and fairness.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the fine proposals adopted by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, which warmly welcomed the position put forward in the Morgan report - and I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done - I am sorry to say that recently positions have emerged that in my view are designed to change the fine achievements of the committee.
I refer to the Council's conclusions, which leave little space for a concrete change of approach to create a competitive and competition-based energy market.
The Council is proposing the ITO model, which is in fact very similar to the third way.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) I would like to say that Commissioner Piebalgs is in a bind, and has basically become a victim of the bureaucrats who are making us take an action in a hurry, without giving it enough thought.
The data they made available to us come from 2003/2004, while the energy markets were in fact only fully liberalised in June 2007, and the practical information concerning the differences between the old and the new Member States has not yet been evaluated.
I believe that in addition to this criticism, which also applies to the underestimation of the risks as regards the Member States' energy security - risks that are too high because an absolute fortune was dumped on the market without any safety mechanism ensuring that it would not end up in the wrong hands - some positive solutions must be provided, too.
I think that the Agency should have the competences that would enable it to prevent electricity blackouts, and that the Commission should have the power to impose a price moratorium in case year-on-year average energy prices rise by more than 30% in all the Member States.
If the average growth in Member States reaches 30%, Commissioner Piebalgs and his colleagues should be able to impose a price moratorium, as the experience of some European Union citizens, namely fishermen and road hauliers, shows at present.
I think that this measure would receive a positive response in the EU Member States and would enhance the prestige of our Community.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, these reports bring the usual wish list of incompatible objectives: security of energy supply, an efficient energy market, reduction of CO2, harmonised rules for all countries and cheap energy for pensioners.
Well, cheap energy for some means that the rest of us pay for it.
In the end it will be very hard to impose harmonised unbundling rules across 27 Member States, irrespective of the benefits that this may or may not bring.
That is how things are. (CS) I very much agree that the Member States should retain their power to freely establish ownership relations between energy producers and transmission networks.
We are facing the reality of rising energy prices and energy consumption, and this, in my opinion, calls for more power stations to be built and, in particular, for massive strengthening of the transmission networks.
Madam President, I believe that this House, along with the Council and Commission, believes very strongly that consumer rights in the energy sector in Europe should be clearly stated and well protected.
We are all convinced that mechanisms need to address the shortcomings that currently exist in our systems across the European Union.
The report that Mrs De Vits has authored - and I would like to commend her on her work along with the work of the other shadows - is an important step contributing to this debate.
It answers some of the key questions that European citizens are asking us and I would like to focus very briefly on some of these questions.
European citizens want to pay for what they consume and they want to know what they pay for.
It talks about the need to provide safeguards against disconnection and to use this only as a last resort in Member States.
The responsibility to protect vulnerable consumers lies with the Member States: that is what we pay our taxes for.
Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote tomorrow in favour of the report as it has been submitted to plenary. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will focus on the issue of ownership unbundling, although I do not think that this is the most important issue.
The question of ownership, industrial management and network security has not, in my opinion, been sufficiently analysed.
They must be given real powers so that they can exercise their rights and responsibilities.
It is a question of the Commission, in consultation with all the market players, contemplating the move to a European transmission system operator.
The future of the internal electricity market could be guaranteed with a European electricity transmission network.
Madam President, this market is not a market, but a hold-up: one costing EU consumers something like EUR 70 billion a year in undue windfall profits going to 10 or 12 big energy oligopolies in Europe.
I am sorry, but France and Germany are not small peripheral EU Member States.
Therefore they want to create regional markets.
Therefore, without a strong EU agency and a better interface between regulatory agencies and cartel authorities, this EUR 70 billion hold-up will continue. (LT) I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their balanced work and excellent cooperation.
The European electricity market (the model established over the decades) was based on national vertically integrated companies, which operated within their markets, protecting them.
To my mind, we have three main vectors and three main ideas: the development of the process of concentration on a European scale, the lifting of national restrictions through the implementation of the principle of unbundling activities; I see the second principle as the enhancement of the process of centralisation by establishing a European Agency, with the aim of achieving better coordination with national regulators, which is very good, and most of us are in favour of this.
The Commission failed to supply clear answers regarding its vision for the future and what political, financial and economic hazards might ensue as well as how the consequences of implementing this principle could affect the energy policy or general EU policy.
The NGO known as Public Citizen has estimated that in the 14 states in which the price of electricity is not regulated it is 52% higher than in the 36 states where it is.
The problem with the electricity pricing mechanism has been ignored in Mrs Morgan's report. (SV) The electricity market has been more or less monopolised in all the industrial countries.
The countries are doing it in their own manifest interests.
Effectiveness and prosperity will increase for all Europeans if competition in the electricity sector encompasses the huge EU market in its entirety.
Europe has the opportunity of the century, by which I mean that Europe must finally become democratic and efficient.
It is possible, it would be visionary, but it has nothing to do with the EU to date, controlled as it is by lobby interests and their centres of power.
Incidentally, it is interesting that we in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy have moved some way on this over the last few months.
There are other committees that have voted against ownership unbundling.
There is also a new compromise within the Council.
These five proposals raise the prospect of achieving the kind of market integration which will not only transform the way in which companies in the energy sector operate, and separate and increase the transparency of energy generation, transmission and supply functions, but also give greater priority than ever before to the fundamental rights and protection of energy consumers.
I consider it a great success that, by establishing a responsible, independent and strong European agency, this jointly-produced draft regulation will not only promote cooperation among regulators in the Member States but also help to achieve the primary goal of fostering regional markets and developing the networks.
We therefore really need the kind of regulatory authority that will take action to combat any market distortions that may occur.
It is in the interests of Hungary and of all the other small Member States to create a strong authority, thereby helping to ensure its independence, establish cooperation, enhance market transparency and secure investment for development.
Whole continents are beginning to compete in the energy sector, and let us be candid about it: no one can remain isolated from electricity or motorisation.
The goal of energy policy is to ensure Europe's supply security and competitiveness.
Indeed, it is vital to ensure that consumers are aware of their rights and that they can also be certain that their rights will be observed.
Unlike Mrs De Vits, however, I do not believe that we need completely new laws -certainly not at European level.
The Charter can provide a meaningful supplement to this, not in the sense of becoming a binding legal document, but simply in the sense of providing a point of reference for politics and the economy by summarising consumer protection legislation relating to energy.
We all know - it is a matter of course - that our citizens can play a meaningful role in society and the economy only if they have access to appropriate provision of energy.
However, I do not believe that it is for Brussels to prescribe social tariffs.
I think Parliament has done a good job today for Europe's consumers, but I focus particularly on one issue and one amendment.
That is Amendment 161 to the Morgan report, pushing for better access to the grid for renewable operators.
I call now for stronger action on the part of the Commission in cases where the national authorities are actually part of the problem rather than part of the solution.
By way of example, in the United Kingdom we have Ofgem, our national authority, which has a locational pricing mechanism for access to the UK grid that actually discriminates against renewable operators within Scotland, my country.
I would like to see a greater degree of European coordination and action against the individual Member State operators where they are part of the problem.
I think we have made a good start towards that today and look forward to seeing more of it. - (PL) My congratulations on the reports, which tackle the most important consumer and political problems facing our continent.
The unbundling of distribution from generation and trade in energy is of key significance for both individual and industrial customers.
Where unbundling is introduced, energy prices fall, or rise more slowly.
In countries where unbundling has been carried out, the mean rise in energy prices for domestic users was 3% during 1998-2006.
Energy these days, though, is also about security of supply - in other words, politics.
The Russian state monopoly has increasing investments in 16 EU countries.
Otherwise we shall be defenceless, and we shall pay for it with our security. (EL) Madam President, the common theme of the proposals for the energy market is its restructuring in favour of private enterprises, while public energy suppliers are being weakened, despite being left to bear the underlying costs.
In my country, where the energy market is controlled by public suppliers for the public good, anything like this will have very unfavourable consequences.
The theory of price regulation through competition is simply a myth: in practice, it has led to the creation of powerful monopolies in a number of sectors of the economy, with devastating effects on the market and consumers. (DE) Madam President, surely, given the record prices for petroleum, energy independence for Europe finally has to be a top-priority issue!
The EU must reduce its current dependency on the Gulf States.
We need to improve our relationship with other countries besides Russia without becoming excessively independent.
This is another reason why, in my opinion, we in the EU must invest more in alternative energy suppliers.
Madam President, I congratulate the Commissioner, and also the rapporteurs on their excellent reports and their good work in drawing up directives that might unify the European energy market.
Let us also keep in mind that our regulations will not provide a solution to every problem, such as the rise in oil prices, nor will they prevent a rise in energy prices linked to the introduction of CO2 emission costs, but they will significantly simplify and support our actions to the benefit of energy users.
What we have here is a very good basis for discussions with the Council on the subject of a final solution.
At the same time the solutions for gas must be similar to the solutions for electricity, but they must definitely not be identical.
This point is also very important - third party access to the market, access to parties from third countries.
That is why this is also a key issue, in order not give privileges to investors from outside the European Union.
Just to conclude, I would like to say that this is one of the most difficult discussions that we have had, and it has been conducted very properly and with respect for all parties. (DE) Madam President, I am delighted that, in the De Vits report, we have a very good report before us and I am delighted that all our fellow Members are of one mind regarding solidarity, transparency and consumer protection.
It is hard to believe them because they are not in favour of a binding charter on the rights of consumers - something that is incredibly important if citizens are to know what rights they have.
I find them cynical because everyone in this Chamber was united in backing the idea that air passengers should be aware of these rights, and air passengers are not exactly the poorest people in our society.
Please ensure that we make this Charter obligatory. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this package is arriving at Parliament right in the midst of the great challenge that energy is posing for our society's future.
Above all, we need a legislative framework that will finally create a European market in electricity and gas, a market that is able to regulate itself in a balanced manner, that has national and European regulators, that guarantees competitiveness, openness, transparency and efficiency for consumers too, that allows large businesses to remain strong and at the same time allows new entities to be set up and to grow, that makes progress instead of going backwards.
I would like to finish, Madam President, by saying that we must genuinely strengthen the hand of consumers by offering certainty, guarantees and fair prices. (LV) Firstly, I would like to thank the Commissioner and the majority of my fellow Members for truly liberal access to the electricity market, which together with energy efficiency measures will really allow us to reduce prices in the future.
Two theses - unbundling of ownership and transmission - are and will remain the basic model for genuine decentralised production and security for networks providing access to electricity produced from renewable resources.
Thank you. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that in a Europe that every day is suffering from ever greater inflation and from galloping prices due in large part to the cost of energy, talking about a European charter of consumer rights is our clear duty and I therefore endorse the report and thank both my fellow Member and, of course, the Commission.
I can therefore only hope that joint action by the EU and the Member States, always abiding by the vital principle of subsidiarity - as the excellent report by Mrs De Vits also stresses - is crucial.
The adoption of the third package, in my view, will also serve to ensure better protection for consumers as well as small and medium-sized professional users. (EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the third energy package has divided the political groups, especially on the issue of ownership unbundling.
Clearly, this split is due not to ideology, but to the differing internal situations and starting points of the various Member States; it arises from corresponding splits among the Member States in the Council.
Personally, I fully endorse the idea of ownership unbundling, but I am well aware that unbundling could under no circumstances be imposed in my country at this time.
I therefore think we have a duty in this difficult issue to support the conciliation by possibly improving it on certain points in the light of experience.
We must make no compromises on the basic principles of independence and effectiveness that should govern the activity of energy transmission system operators and energy regulators. (ES) Madam President, I would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on their good work, and in particular express my support for Mrs Morgan's position with regard to full ownership unbundling between generation and supply activities on the one hand, and network ownership and operation on the other.
Large vertically integrated companies obviously make it difficult for new competitors to come onto the market and, in particular, for renewable energy sources to be developed and installed.
I would therefore like to invite the minority that is against unbundling to leave aside national interests, which disappear in the short term, and to take steps towards joining in building a Europe that is strong and secure in terms of its energy supply.
To conclude, I would like to point out that while network access for renewable energy sources is essential for achieving our objectives, developing electricity interconnection capacity is no less essential, especially for the most isolated countries in our energy market.
Madam President, the European energy market today continues to reflect, in my opinion, an old market structure dominated by national or regional monopolies, and this in spite of the evident benefits that liberalisation brings for European customers in terms of price, cost reduction and efficiency.
This is to say that liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets is still a work in progress.
I also welcome the steps that we are taking to ensure ownership unbundling as a necessary measure to finally complete our liberalisation of the energy market.
Diversification and security of energy supply must now be as high on our agenda as liberalisation. (SL) Firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for the fine work they have done.
The proposed measures place at the forefront the consumer, who in a well functioning internal energy market will be able to choose from among suppliers and opt for the best one based on his own judgement.
I anticipate that an open and transparent internal market will also ensure access to the market for small companies and in this way increase competitiveness, improve conditions for investment in power stations and transmission networks, increase the security of supply and promote sustainable development.
The main precondition for a well functioning internal market is standard and clear rules that apply to all participants in the market.
Different models in individual Member States will certainly not lead to the goal that has been set.
Indeed the Presidency has been focused entirely on coordination and finding a compromise, and despite the strong national interests of Member States, it achieved agreement in the Council.
The pressures, including from Member States, are great.
I trust that Parliament will confirm the compromise we drew up in the ITRE Committee.
In this context I am grateful to Commissioner Piebalgs, who stated at the beginning that we must reach a common agreement by the end of this year. (Applause). (DE) Madam President, what particularly surprises me about this debate is that even though some of our fellow Members want to prescribe in detail how competition should take place - and there are several possible ways of doing this - they are not prepared to talk about more transparency, more incentives to save energy, opportunities for energy consumers to lodge complaints or the fight against energy poverty.
This is the signal we need to give to the citizens of Europe tomorrow: we have to say that people must not be affected by the full force of price rises but that there must be opportunities to avoid them by increasing the amount of energy saved and particularly by having more transparency in order to be able to choose other energy providers.
I am very thankful to Mrs Morgan for this part of the report. (FR) Madam President, listening to all my colleagues this afternoon, I am quite surprised that we all agree on the need for a European single energy market, although I feel that we must work on energy efficiency so that consumers pay as little as possible.
The Member States have taken a step towards an acceptable package that can be fine-tuned.
If we do not accept it, we risk having no text at all, while our citizens are kept waiting.
We do not yet have a European internal market; we have national markets and we have monopolies or small groups exerting control over national markets.
In Spain, two companies, Endesa and Iberdrola, produce 48.3% and 28% of the electricity respectively.
In Sweden, Vattenfall is boss, also producing almost 48% of the electricity generated; while in Italy the market is concentrated around ENEL, which has a 43.9% market share.
Nobody can tell me that ownership unbundling will achieve what we want, which is to break up the market and create competition.
As for everything else in the Morgan report, I find it very satisfactory.
My compliments to Mrs Morgan; she has shown a great deal of energy and commitment.
However, on that particular matter, I think we should also open a second way for the countries that have unbundled in a different manner.
However, nobody can say that tomorrow we will be passing a package that includes equal competitive conditions.
There are some very long distances to walk in this building and the lifts can be very slow sometimes.
The matter we are discussing today and will vote on tomorrow is not necessarily a question of left or right - although it is true that we also have that type of debate in this Chamber - but rather a disputed question about what instruments will achieve our goal.
I am among those who proceed on the basis that the option of finding a third way can also be an instrument.
We have included these suggestions here and emphasised repeatedly that this has not only initiated the third way, the Council's original suggestion, but that we have also introduced additional regulatory components because the third way that came to us from the Council was not enough for us.
What is even more important is that we in Europe achieve uniform regulations, and that the regulatory authorities in the Member States are given consistent competences and independence to implement what we decide here, because in the end, they are the ones who have to respond on the ground.
Nevertheless, we should discuss whether ownership unbundling is really the instrument we should be equipping ourselves and the regulators with, or whether we should offer more flexibility.
Thank you very much and apologies again for being late. (NL) Madam President, speaking on behalf of the Dutch delegation of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I should like to compliment rapporteur Mrs Morgan most sincerely on the way in which she has prepared this opinion.
Indeed, this has already clearly been put into practice in the Netherlands with good results, including with regard to investment and the well-functioning market in both the gas and the electricity sector.
I should also like to mention in this connection that Mrs Kroes, the Commissioner for Competition, has done her bit for this development, including by means of what she is currently doing with RWE and E.ON.
A small community organisation in Manchester asked for my help in resolving a complaint with its energy supplier.
In March 2008, the group received an invoice for five years' electricity use totalling GBP 7 540.37, pushing them into debt.
I urge the Commission to be bold in taking forward a charter of rights, working with regulators, Member States and companies to proactively promote and publicise these rights, and to abandon the notion of a watered-down checklist, which will not deliver a fair deal for consumers faced with today's complex energy challenges and prices.
In recent years, we have had a rapid increase in energy prices and the European citizens are expecting an answer to their problems from the European institutions.
The accessibility and availability of energy are essential for economic and social life.
I consider amendment 18 of the Chichester report to fall under the competence of the Council. (LT) I would like to congratulate the Commission on the proposed package of documents for the creation of a realistic EU internal energy market, as well as Mrs Morgan, who, in her report, has presented us with an expert assessment of the market situation along with possible solutions.
This country's situation after the closure of the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant in 2009 will become unpredictable because of its sole dependency on Russia.
The majority in the ITRE Committee supported the fairer principle and I believe that the same will happen during the vote in plenary.
The majority of national energy market regulators also favoured the launch of an agency that would be more than just another bureaucratic debating club with no powers.
Applying unequal conditions to the individual countries would basically devalue the effort to create a respected and functioning agency.
Madam President, I strongly support unbundling between generation and transmission, but I would say that it needs to be thorough and I question whether it can sit comfortably with any state ownership in either sector.
The experience has been rather different.
In effect they have been decoupled without gaining any advantage, and the primary reason is, I believe, because that single market was created without adequately dealing with the issue of the state monopoly of the ESB. (NL) Madam President, to be brief, there has been a real decline in investment in the electricity market, particularly in cross-border grids, in recent years.
This gives organisations in the Netherlands, producers such as Nuon and Essent, the opportunity to develop a European outlook.
From this point of view, I wholeheartedly support the splitting of ownership now being proposed in Mrs Morgan's report.
Madam President, I congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and support her position on getting a fairer deal for consumers.
Better regulation of electricity and gas markets is critical to ensuring fair competition and better prices for consumers and I am deeply concerned that soaring energy prices are putting Europeans increasingly at risk of energy poverty, especially the elderly, who are the most vulnerable.
Given the current conditions in energy security, we absolutely need a well-functioning gas and electricity market in Europe.
I have received a number of letters from my constituents in support of Amendment 159 which would prohibit Member States from authorising the construction of new power stations that emit more than 350 g of carbon dioxide per kilowatt produced. (PT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the regional integration of cross-border electricity markets must be seen not only in the light of what is being discussed today, but also in terms of creating a single European market for electricity.
Furthermore, the range of energy issues in the European framework deserves a more comprehensive and forward looking approach.
However, I would like to be perfectly clear on this matter, ladies and gentlemen.
I welcome the fact that the report by my fellow Member, Mrs De Vits, on the proposal for a Charter on the Rights of Energy Consumers, is also included in the debate on the third energy package.
I want to thank the rapporteur for incorporating in her report my amendments in which I called on the Member States to provide financial support to consumer organisations in the area of consulting services.
Consumer organisations do a great deal of work on behalf of energy consumers, especially vulnerable consumers. (EL) Madam President, let me first endorse what the rapporteur, Mrs Morgan, has said about the need to protect the more vulnerable consumers in particular against rising fuel prices.
I also agree on the need to combat energy poverty and vigorously promote investment in renewable energy sources.
Complete ownership unbundling is not an unconditional, essential precondition for investments in improving the network.
The fact is that in the Council we most certainly agree with the finding that the situation in the internal energy market is neither good nor satisfactory.
For this very reason we have spent long years striving to reach an agreement on establishing a proper internal market in gas and electricity in order to establish true competition and equal conditions for all players in this market.
This is also the view of the Commission, and it is also the view of the majority of Member States.
Nevertheless, a compromise was necessary to reach an agreement.
The compromise means that three options are available, and the Presidency's assessment is that the application of these options in line with the envisaged rules can lead us to a situation where equal conditions will be established for all players in the internal gas and electricity market, once true competition is established.
This is a very important issue, especially in circumstances where energy prices are rising in leaps and bounds.
The issue of consumer protection was mentioned several times.
It requires that consumers are adequately informed about their consumption of energy, about the costs arising from this, and that they are informed with sufficient frequency to be able to settle their spending obligations.
I should point out that the text of the agreement reached in the Council envisages derogations or exceptions for such countries and for such markets, up until their isolation is remedied.
This is also the wish of the Council.
The Presidency agrees that the agreement secured on 6 June has created the possibility of such an agreement being reached by the end of this year.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs and everyone who participated in the debate.
I think this debate will be most useful for the Council in its further work and in reaching our common agreement within the desired deadline.
I believe that change is necessary: not only the Commission's annual reports, but also the competitive sector inquiry has demonstrated this.
Parliament's Vidal-Quadras report said that we need a change and we need proposals.
On the ground we have also had some developments in competition law recently.
I am not necessarily against it, but there is a boundary between where European legislation is needed and where national law starts in this respect.
I shall finish by thanking Mrs Morgan, Mrs De Vits, Giles Chichester and Alejo Vidal-Quadras once again for their excellent reports.
I think that the debate clearly showed that there was a lot of internal debate, and I am looking forward to the vote tomorrow, because the Vidal-Quadras report paved the way for us to make the proposal.
Much depends on the vote tomorrow where Parliament will stand, but I clearly understand that there is political will to find agreement and we will have the proposal adopted during this legislature for the benefit of our consumers, and I think that is great.
Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Morgan report The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 29, 30, 33, 34, 35, 36, 40, 44, 46, 48, 50, 54, 56, 57, 58, 61, 65, 70, 71, 73, 74, 77, 83, 84, 88, 89, 92, 93, 94, 97, 99, 101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 111,112, 113, 114, 118, 119, 120, 122, 123, 124, 126, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151 and 152.
The Commission can accept Amendments 10, 11, 16, 24, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 45, 47, 55, 59, 60, 66, 68, 72, 79, 80, 82, 85, 86, 87, 95, 98, 100, 109, 110, 115, 117, 121, 125, 127, 138, 153, 155, 165, 166 and 167 in part.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 3, 7, 9, 13, 27, 28, 31, 32, 37, 49, 51, 52, 53, 62, 63, 64, 67, 69, 75, 76, 78, 81, 90, 91, 96, 103, 104, 116, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 154, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 168, 169, 170, 171 and 176.
Vidal-Quadras report The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 21, 22 and 29.
The Commission can accept Amendments 6, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 24, 25, 28, 31 and 32 in part.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 13, 19, 23, 26, 27, 30 and 33.
Chichester report The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 6, 9, 10, 12, 16, 45, 48, 49, 53, 54, 64 (regarding paragraph 3), 64 (paragraph 4), 66, 72 and 75.
The Commission can accept Amendments 3, 4, 5, 7, 11, 13, 14, 15, 19 (paragraph 1a), 19 (paragraph 1da), 19 (paragraph 1db), 19 (paragraph 1de), 19 (paragraph 1df), 19 (paragraph 1dh), 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 35, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 47, 51, 57, 58, 59, 61, 64 (paragraph 1), 68, 70, 74 and 76 in part.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 8, 17, 18, 19 (paragraph 1c), 19 (paragraph 1d), 19 (paragraph 1dc), 19 (paragraph 1dd), 19(1dg), 20, 21, 22, 25, 29, 30, 34, 36, 37, 38, 46, 50, 52, 55, 56, 60, 62, 63, 64 (paragraph 2), 64 (paragraph 5), 64 (paragraph 7), 64(8), 65, 67, 69, 71 and 73.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I should like to thank all those who contributed to a very interesting debate.
I understand, of course, that there is a time and a place and a need for compromise, but I think it has gone too far.
We have large industrial energy users coming up to us and asking us privately to unbundle, but when we tell them that we will try to do that and ask them to come and say that to us publicly, they say they cannot do that as they are vulnerable!
That means that the consumer is not in charge - the consumer is not in control of the marketplace - and that is problematic.
I think there has been a misunderstanding on the matter of special tariffs for vulnerable customers.
We will see, ladies and gentlemen, that what this is about is knowing what we want and whether we all want the same thing, because what cannot logically be said is that ownership unbundling is some sort of magic master key that opens every door and is going to give us the solution to all our problems.
The regulators' agency is not independent enough.
No, because this is due to other causes that have nothing to do with ownership unbundling.
These are three amendments for which we request support in order to improve consumer rights.
As I see it, this European market in energy means that we must also be able to give consumers a European answer.
The vote on the Morgan, Vidal-Quadras and Chichester reports will take place tomorrow.
The vote on the De Vits report will take place on Thursday 19 June 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) As regards the "Chichester report regarding the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, I support the setting-up of this Agency and its provision with increased competences.
Nevertheless, I believe the vote the Irish gave last week is a new extremely important political signal, including in relation to the opinion citizens have on the Brussels bureaucrats and the way in which decisions are made in the "closed circle in Brussels.
All the European citizens must feel part of and close to the European decision-making process.
It is important that all the European citizens feel they are represented and the institutions should have locations across the entire Union.
Unlike in other countries, however, the energy mafia in Bulgaria is making a clear sign that it is about to enter politics, and that, not by going through fair and transparent elections but in the way it has always acted, buying its way in.
Both parties are buying votes but while the MRL operates exclusively in the interest of Turkey, the Leader Party and its leader, Hristo Kovachki, operate solely for their own benefit.
in writing. - I fully support my colleague's report, and would have done so in person had it been possible.
in writing. - (PL) I am very pleased to accept Parliament's position on the European Charter on the Rights of Energy Consumers, particularly the proposal that the consumer be charged on the basis of actual energy consumption.
I hope this will lead to bills for all individual gas consumers being drawn up in kWh, and not, as in Poland, for example, in cubic metres.
However, my key point is this: as the EU is based on the principles of free competition, we are committed to ensuring, not only in theory but also in real life, that in each Member State the consumer will be able to choose freely and without any difficulties between different electricity producers and distributors and to decide which is the best offer.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the way events are developing, EU energy priorities - environmental protection, security and market liberalisation - continue to be important, but their hierarchy needs to be re-evaluated.
One might regret that in our circle of 27 countries there is no determination to create a common and competitive energy market.
Demonopolisation is meeting with resistance in several countries that are otherwise considered to be leaders in European integration.
Bilateral negotiations, such as those entered into in the west and the east of the European Union with Gazprom, are weakening our bargaining position.
Differences in national interests are making themselves felt in the construction of a single energy market.
Energy supplies have a significant impact on the way citizens function in social and economic life.
The European Charter on the Rights of Energy Consumers should resolve some of the problems that exist in this area.
This Charter is supposed to be based on the idea of cooperation between Member States with full application of the principle of subsidiarity, bearing in mind that certain practices in the sphere of consumer protection may result in different outcomes in different Member States.
Limits should also be placed on the formalities arising from a change in supplier; consumers should be protected against dishonest sales practices and consumer organisations should be set up.
Above all, though, a solution must be found to the problem of energy poverty in order to enable all citizens to take part in many important areas of life.
