Assessment and management of flood risks (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the Council common position with a view to adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment and management of flood risks (12131/6/2006 C6-0038/2007 (Rapporteur: Richard Seeber).
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me take a moment to thank my friend Jacques Barrot for repeatedly confronting the problems involved in transalpine freight haulage and for being our comrade-in-arms on the long march towards the solution of these problems.
The Council's common position contained a few points which, in our opinion, required improvement.
Member of the Commission. (EL) Mr President, I would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur Mr Seeber for his exceptional work in the flooding directive, as well as the Committee on Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for its positive contribution.
The European Parliament played a significant role in order to achieve agreement on an exceptional text and I would like to praise these efforts.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, Richard Seeber, for the cooperative spirit in which our discussions took place.
This is a directive that I believe to be very important, partly in the context of other directives, such as the directive on water, the directive on waste and the directive on soil, which is yet to be debated.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the Directive on the assessment and management of flood risks underlines the need for action which unfortunately is not always respected in business activity in practice.
I would like to thank Richard Seeber for his very competent report.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the seasonal and regional differences in precipitations, long-term climate change and lack of coordination between some countries have resulted in catastrophic floods which account for 43% of all natural disasters in Europe, and are often of a trans-border nature.
In 2005, at the time of the great flood that has already been mentioned, we were obliged to invest more than EUR 200 million in flood protection.
I feel that we have really succeeded in drafting a directive that will protect human lives and increase physical safety in Europe. (DE) Mr President, in the wake of climate change, inadequate river management and building activities in flood-prone areas, floods are set to become an increasingly frequent occurrence.
Major points in his report have already been incorporated into the common position and can be put into even sharper focus through this compromise package.
It is important to the European Parliament that the impact of climate change is to be taken into account in the assessment of flood risks.
It is for this reason that a coordinated approach is called for, and I set great store by the concept of solidarity which is included in this proposed directive and mentioned more explicitly in Amendments 48 and 61 of the compromise package, which I wholeheartedly support.
Most importantly it contains: a clearer and earlier attention to the impact of climate change in the preliminary assessment of flood risks; an agreement on the earlier date of 2011 for the first preliminary flood risk assessment, thus leaving Member States more time to prepare the flood maps; a strengthened role of flood plains and the promotion of sustainable land use practices in flood risk management; sound coordination - also in relation to implementation - with the water framework directive and a link to the cost recovery principles in that directive; a further strengthening of the language on solidarity in river basin districts; and last but not least, a requirement to set clear priorities for the implementation of measures included in the flood risk management plans.
I am also particularly pleased to note the importance placed by both Parliament and the Council on this directive, which was only proposed by the Commission 13 months ago.
I encourage the House to establish common sense and preventative action in the area of floods and flood control.
