The vast majority were born in that country, work in that country but nevertheless are given the epithet 'non-citizens'.
I was able to vote in German local elections, but in my own country I have not been able to vote because they do not recognise me.
Mr President, my Group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, did not hesitate to submit this oral question to the Commission when, during several sessions in the Committee on Petitions, we became aware of the situation in which many citizens of Latvia find themselves.
We believe, therefore, that the European Commission should exert considerable pressure on the government in order to prevent its failure to observe many recommendations that have been made by various institutions, such as the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights and the very recommendation made by this Parliament in the debate on Latvia's accession, the Resolution of 11 March, in which it was clearly stated that a real solution had to be found to the segregation problem and the issue of those citizens who are required to prove whether they were born before 1940.
Nonetheless, in Latvia, primary education is dispensed by the state and local government in eight minority languages, some of which, such as Romany and Estonian, are very small.
When a survey was conducted recently, however, in late 2008, among people who had not become naturalised, 74% did not wish to obtain Latvian citizenship.
However, there are hundreds of thousands of people in Latvia who were born in Latvia but who cannot vote in local elections.
I understand that this position of Latvia contradicts the policy published in the Russian Diplomatic Herald by Mr Karaganov in 1992, as well as his supporters here in the European Parliament, but we will never give up protecting our country against these disinformation campaigns.
The last time they had the opportunity to enjoy voting rights was 19 years ago, i.e.
If you are part of a country, I think you have rights and duties. (HU) I wish to congratulate Alexandra Dobolyi and her fellow authors.
Mr President, I have listened carefully to both sides.
It is very difficult, in this context, for the Commission to take over from the Latvian State to deal with this problem.
