The global dimension of terrorism calls for a global response.
We need to make sure that our Member States cooperate more in the fight against international terrorism.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, many European instruments to fight terrorism have been introduced by Member States.
Yet a number of European countries are continuing to face a significant terrorist threat and it is therefore appropriate, after several years of those instruments being in force, to evaluate the effectiveness of the implementation of European legislation in this area.
It seems necessary to me, in the process, to restore the balance between our fellow citizens' need for security and the safeguarding of their right to protection of privacy.
The European Union should take a global approach to these issues in order to set the general principles for exchanging information with our US partners and for protecting data under these exchanges.
Mr President, 2001-2007 has been six years of a politically motivated fight against terrorism.
The only thing we have seen in these six years is the quest for a policy response to every measure taken.
To date, I have seen no plan or paper, either from the Commission or the Council - or, incidentally, from any Member State - proposing a short-, medium- and long-term counter-terrorism strategy.
With regard to the long term, I cannot see any progress or movement in the field of development assistance, which can be understood in the sense of security policy.
The question, therefore, is: what role will Europe adopt?
If we wish to combat terrorism successfully we must define Europe's worldwide role in this fight, rather than pursuing national actionism, which is then carried out only in Europe.
author. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that, having postponed this debate from July to September, we are now holding it in the present circumstances, with the absence of the Council on the issues that we want to raise, in itself demonstrates that Europe is in fact unprepared to tackle the problem of terrorism firmly and comprehensively and that this Parliament is unfortunately still too weak in political terms.
Once there were terrorist groups in the various nations of the EU, there were internal problems, Europe was already largely united and there was already talk of a common strategy that never materialised.
Despite this, there is no European Union policy for control of the Internet or to give definite security rules to citizens, who do not understand what measures have been adopted by the EU or are set to be adopted in the near future.
Switzerland has already been doing all this for a long time, while Europe is still hesitating and talking in vain.
That will be the best form of homage to the memory of the lives that from September 11 until today have throughout the world been cut short by atrocities.
I should also like the Council to inform us during the course of the debate whether there are any particular measures it believes are missing, particular measures it now considers necessary that have not yet been taken.
The question in this regard is not only how people and organisations get included in these lists, but also how they get removed from them.
On 11 July the Al-Aqsa Foundation and José María Sison were judged to have been listed wrongfully.
More than one million people in Europe are still having to fiddle about with plastic bags before boarding their flight, obediently filling them with 100 ml bottles - which often end up in the bin because passengers have forgotten the rule - and there is no excessive breach of civil rights and abuse can be monitored.
This is another important aspect for evaluation.
My group, too, can fully appreciate countries' desire to know who is entering their territory.
Finally, necessity.
The last aspect for evaluation is the Council's position on breaches of human rights within the European Union, in connection with the CIA's activities.
The European Parliament has investigated these as fully as possible, and it is scandalous, in my opinion, that we have never heard any comment from the Council.
I therefore ask the Council not to appoint a new counter-terrorism coordinator because over the last few months we have discovered that we can easily do without one.
Terrorist attacks represent a move from the rule of law to a primitive state.
The Commission has spoken and the Council of Europe is speaking about this.
There is no doubt that recent events in London and Glasgow, as well as on the border between Spain and Portugal plus the attack in Yemen, have confirmed that terrorism represents a considerable threat to Europe's security and to the values of our democratic societies, particularly to the rights and freedoms of European citizens.
Action by the European Union has intensified since 11 September 2001 and, subsequently, since the dreadful attacks in Madrid in 2004 and in London in 2005.
The Presidency confirms that the Council does in fact carry out a six-monthly review of the situation as regards implementation of the EU Counter-Terrorism Strategy and of the strategy against terrorist financing and an annual evaluation of the implementation of the Strategy for Combating Radicalisation and Recruitment to Terrorism.
The adoption of certain measures in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters has been slowed down by the need for unanimous decision-making in this field.
As regards the need for closer cooperation between the law enforcement and security information services, Member State security services are currently working in close and very efficient collaboration within the Counter-Terrorism Group.
Europol has developed very effective analysis files that are increasingly supplied with information by Member State law enforcement services.
The European Parliament maintains a close direct political dialogue with the Council and the Commission.
As regards the relation between the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator and the Situation Centre, SitCen takes no part in the drawing up of EU counter-terrorism policy or in the coordination of work in the field of counter-terrorism carried out by the Council; nor does it monitor follow-up to the Council's decisions.
Nevertheless, it was on the basis of a threat assessment drawn up by SitCen that Council approved policy recommendations in various fields, such as the field of explosives, to prevent illegal use by terrorists.
In the drawing up of such a counter-terrorism strategy the Presidency has the support of its partners who bring their ideas to the high-level discussions, and the European Parliament, in particular, plays a vital role.
Compliance with the provision in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union is of paramount importance for the Council, as indeed is compliance with all the other articles of the Treaties.
Cooperation and dialogue with third countries are the mainstays of the EU Counter-Terrorism strategy.
The European Union also maintains anti-terrorism dialogue with other countries and international organisations.
It should be mentioned that, with specific reference to the United States of America, the Presidency holds regular talks with various bodies and at the most varied levels on combating terrorism, which cover subjects such as radicalisation and recruitment into terrorism, including Internet use by extremist groups, terrorist threat analysis, cooperation in international forums, public/private partnerships for combating terrorism, specifically explosives safety, critical infrastructure protection, terrorist financing, in addition to other types of cooperation between civilian authorities and the police authorities.
The Council will shortly be presenting, for the first time, a report on the implementation of the communication strategy intended for the media and approved in July 2006.
Under the terms of the Counter-Terrorism Strategy a high-level counter-terrorism meeting must be held once per Presidency between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
The Council employs various mechanisms for assessment, such the EU's peer evaluation process for national counter-terrorism measures, assessment of the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant, assessment of information exchange between Europol and the Member States and between Member States, etc.
The Council has organised the assessment of information exchange between Europol and the Member States and between Member States.
Like all the Institutions, the Council is committed to the provision contained in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union which states that the Union is based on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law.
That principle is central to the Counter-Terrorism Strategy adopted by the Council, as you know, in December 2005.
First I should like to mention that the Judgment in Case T-228/02 of 12 December 2006, known as the OMPI Case (Organisation des Modjahedines du Peuple d'Iran v Council of the European Union), does not justify the conclusion that the EU practice of terrorist lists is in breach of EU legislation.
The Court did not in fact rule against the practice of terrorist lists, but considered merely that some fundamental rights and guarantees, including the right of defence, the obligation to state reasons and the right to effective judicial protection are, in principle, fully applicable in the context of the adoption of a Community decision to freeze funds in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2580/2001.
The mandate, practical arrangements and the working methods of this new working party are contained in a public document adopted by the Council.
The role and competences of the institutions are laid down in the Treaties.
The Council takes the necessary measures required to implement the judgments of the Court of Justice in accordance with the provisions of Article 233 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
It is important to mention that the European Parliament, in accordance with Article 308 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, was consulted when Regulation (EC) No 2580/2001 was adopted.
Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause) Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission continues to be fully committed to the implementation of the EU counter-terrorism strategy, the action plan, as the Council just said, endorsed in 2005.
All sources indicate that the threat of new terrorist attacks continues to be high.
Our Member States' authorities have been able to prevent a number of attacks, for which we must be very grateful.
I would first of all like to take this very good opportunity to inform you of a package of measures which are in preparation by my services, and which will be adopted by the Commission this autumn in very close cooperation with the Portuguese Presidency.
This package will consist of a European action plan on the security of explosives, a proposal for an amendment of the Framework Decision on terrorism to deal with terrorist misuse of internet, and a proposal on European passenger name record (PNR) policy.
I have received what I think will prove to be a ground-breaking report from a public-private expert group that I have established, which contains around 50 valuable concrete recommendations to improve security of explosives, precursors and detonators across the EU.
These recommendations will form the basis for the European action plan which should be adopted, as I said, before November.
The measures that will be proposed in it include, for example, the setting-up of a European explosives database at Europol with links to all the responsible services in Member States, in addition to an early warning system so that these services are informed very quickly, for example, when explosives have been stolen or a new terrorist modus operandi is discovered from credible intelligence information.
Reflection on details of this proposal is still ongoing, but the Commission's main intention is to ensure that each Member State collects PNR records, processes them and, where appropriate, exchanges them with others.
The Union is at least as much a potential target of a terrorist attack as the United States and the use and analysis of PNR is an important law enforcement tool to protect our citizens, who deserve the same protection as the citizens of the United States.
The new report will also include information on the situation in the new Member States, which was not available in 2004 - and you can understand why.
This brings me to the more general question raised concerning an overall comprehensive evaluation of all counter-terrorist measures adopted until now.
As regards the exchange of information between Member States and European institutions, I fully agree that this is an essential aspect of the fight against terrorism.
I believe these are organisations that should be better equipped to deal with such tasks.
We should not forget that the large majority of our citizens - 84% in the latest Eurobarometer - are strongly in favour of EU action to combat terrorists and organised crime.
So, let us strengthen Europol and Eurojust based on that.
Naturally, any action we take must be in line with the fundamental rights acquis and with Article 6 of the Treaty.
I, too, am in favour of an evaluation and of our now putting to the test the measures we have implemented, but we also need new momentum.
Mr President, I believe it is important to hold this debate today.
It is important in this regard to find ways of reaching out to young people who are susceptible to this kind of radicalisation.
I should like to ask the Commissioner once more whether he, too, can envisage any possibilities for exchanging Dutch practice with other Member States who are facing the same problems, particularly in large towns and cities.
I welcome the oral questions that colleagues have tabled today, with their very specific questions to Council and Commission.
The arrest yesterday of three people in Germany and the arrest this morning of another three in Denmark show the continuing threat that terrorists pose to our society.
My Group is united in its belief that we need more judicial cooperation to make Europol and Eurojust as effective as possible.
You tell us that the European Parliament has, and I quote, 'a primordial role', but that primordial role turns out to be a courtesy meeting once every six months with the chairman of our committee.
Commissioner Frattini, you tell us that 85% of citizens are strongly in favour of European action.
My local airport now charges people 50 pence for a plastic bag into which travellers have to put their toothpaste.
The issue of the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator has already been raised.
It makes sense in theory to consolidate competences in this field, to endeavour to bring together the experiences gathered at national level.
Since 12 September 2001, a 'war' has been waged on terrorism.
This sets out a large number of points being implemented or to be implemented by the EU Member States and the EU itself.
Nobody says that, in deciding to send our soldiers to war for profit, Tony Blair also put his country in danger [...] Nobody mentions that our actions have only increased the number and the intensity of terrorist acts.
Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the Vice-President of the European Commission sincerely for their detailed replies to our questions.
At the forefront of this debate is the question of what measures have been taken to combat terrorism and whether these have been effective.
More important still is the question of whether the measures conflict with the democratic rule of law.
The rules on liquids are ineffective and arouse great opposition.
After the attacks in London and Madrid it emerged that the intelligence services did indeed have data at their disposal but did not act in time.
When we take new measures, therefore, we must strike the right balance between the rule of law and an effective fight against terrorism.
Monitoring is a legitimate parliamentary instrument in this regard.
The former Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, Gijs de Vries, said that in his experience not one Member State wanted a European police force or a European security service.
One problem that follows from this is the lack of democratic control of such cooperation.
Mr President, there are essentially two points I would like to make in this important debate.
If you genuinely support the rule of law, then you do not attack and protest against the means of securing international justice.
We have to understand that the role of the EU's institutions should be establishing what we fundamentally need in order to fight this organisation, which is intelligence and information.
I believe, and in view of what Mr Frattini said about what happened this morning in Frankfurt, which I also heard about, that it is perhaps the most important challenge facing the EU, because it not only affects the security of citizens and their physical integrity, but it also seeks to undermine something very important: it seeks to undermine the values of democratic societies.
I believe that this oral question to Parliament shows how much Parliament wants to make progress in the fight against terrorism, but it also shows that we have concerns, because Mr Watson presented a number of issues that may be aberrations, in the context of the measures that we are taking, because above all, in this fight we also have a responsibility to democracy and freedom, which is very important and cannot be forgotten.
We need to continue with what we discussed in Tampere and the work that we then did in The Hague in order to consolidate what we said: the balance between freedom, security and justice.
This is why the European Parliament hastened to adopt the Prüm Treaty before the summer.
Europol tells us that there were almost 500 terrorist attacks in the EU last year.
I was proud to be Vice-Chair of the European Parliament's Enquiry on Extraordinary Rendition and I share the outrage others have expressed on the complete silence of the Council in the face of our findings that many Member States were complicit in massive human rights abuses, of abduction and torture.
The Council would do well to look in its own backyard before it gobbles up the civil liberties of EU citizens.
The political signals sent by Europe should instead be united against Islamic terrorism and we should jointly oppose those who preach in the mosques against us and our security.
Even after the decisions of the European Court on 12 December 2006, when it returned a judgment of deficient controls and failure to comply with the necessary measures to protect human rights, the European Union made only superficial changes.
We must have the courage to recognise that the enemy is already within our walls.
After all, we have the right and the duty to defend the values of our open society.
Tackling radicalisation is a major challenge, but we live in a world where the terror threat is constantly changing and becoming more sophisticated.
I commend Commissioner Frattini's proposals, which are positive in that respect.
There is, I appreciate, a delicate balance, but in any event we must always do what we can to protect our people from the evil and murderous intent of terrorism. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this debate is enabling us, in the meantime, to overcome, to take stock, but also to overcome some dangerous mistakes - a first mistake.
It would be useful to monitor or do some reconnaissance work on how many terrorist suspects have been arrested over recent years in our countries and have subsequently been released.
I would like to go back to the very simple and very sincere request contained in our question.
The question was whether this cooperation will be pursued with methods complying with Article 6 of the Treaty as recommended by this Parliament at the completion of the CIA enquiry.
A joint strategy makes sense if it includes full respect for the fundamental rights of citizens, but this has not always been the case.
This was discussed in Lisbon on 19 and 20 July.
The Commission says that a European PNR system is to be introduced, but has there yet been an evaluation of the results of the American PNR programme?
Yet it is actually the Americans who are asking the critical questions and who have carried out comprehensive evaluations in recent months and are putting big question marks on the effectiveness of these measures.
We install anti-missile shields everywhere, even in countries such as the Czech Republic, to the great displeasure of its population which has not experienced any terrorism anyway, and all in the name of the fight against terrorism.
This is good, particularly as Europe is genuinely continuing to experience terrorist attacks and will certainly experience them in the future.
For my country, which has no experience of terrorist attacks, terrorism is nevertheless a challenge. (PT) I have listened carefully to what the Council and Commission have said and I have to say that I feel sure we shall be having this debate again - under exactly the same terms as this one - within the space of a few months because in the eyes of Dr Lobo Antunes and Commissioner Frattini, all that has been done has been done well, was done well; no mistakes were made and any assessment will reveal not a single error.
discovering the financing sources for terrorist acts and transnational political and financial networks. 3.
Unfortunately, the threat from Islamic fundamentalism has not diminished, even when attacks take place far from our borders.
Europe must take a leading role in these measures to prevent and combat terrorism, but must ensure that significant action prevails over bureaucratic manoeuvring.
Let me say quite clearly and unequivocally, those who espouse a cause, a tradition or a religion for their terrorist acts undermine their ideology, their religion, their cause and their tradition.
Now, above all, we need to act as 27 Member States - not separately - and act in conjunction with our allies, including the United States.
We are subject to the moral blackmail of those who are saying: if you question this measure, you are putting us in danger - even if the measure is abusive or completely useless.
One important area of the European strategy to combat terrorist organisations is transatlantic cooperation.
Up to now, certain institutions such as the Council of Europe and, sadly, the European Parliament have set in motion such unhelpful actions as the appointment of strange commissions to try to find alleged CIA prisons in Europe.
We must express the hope that today's debate will initiate true commitment on the part of the European Parliament to building a counter-terrorism strategy, and not just the token commitment we have seen hitherto; this must be a strategy which truly aims to promote safety for all our citizens. (SL) It is appropriate ...
However, it is also appropriate for us to answer the question of why this is happening to us and who it is that is posing the threat.
And to me the correct name is jihadi terrorism because these people are fundamentalists who share a hatred of democratic, pluralistic society.
Therefore, it is necessary to create in the European Parliament and the European institutions the conditions for spreading democracy in the world, a plan of action perhaps, and to strengthen economic and political cooperation with Islamic countries.
Their correct mix should be the basis of a European model for combating terrorism, that could ensure the security of EU citizens and their fundamentalrights respectively.
I would like to call on the Council to accelerate the procedure of electing a new EU anti-terrorism co-ordinator, with enhanced powers in relation to the strategies agreed. (FI) Madam President, the EU's new counter-terrorism strategy is the right one, but no thanks to the new officials, bodies or organisations.
The first responsibility for combating terrorism lies with the national governments and the independent Member States.
As Commissioner Frattini said, trust is a precondition for cooperation.
I suggest that we begin by showing greater respect for the needs of Muslims on their territory in order to lessen their effect in the Western world. (PL) Madam President, in the global war on terror, the only way to ensure that fewer people die at the hands of ideological murderers is through good identification and assessment of terrorist threats.
The key to this strategy, in my view, is the creation of a European code of counter-terrorist procedure.
Beside the measures adopted at European level, every state has to contribute to the efficiency of joint action for fighting against all forms of terrorism.
Inter-religious dialogue can make a significant and decisive contribution to reducing terrorism.
Religious leaders have to consider this issue a priority and to become involved in order to ensure peace, and the stability of the communities they are responsible for.
The European Union is adopting new anti-terrorism measures and setting up specialist institutions: we now have Europol and Eurojust, we have the Union's Situation Centre, SitCen, but do they cooperate effectively with each other, and more particularly, do they exchange information?
It appears that Schengen II is important not only to the citizens of the new states, but also, in the context of the war on terror, to the security of the Union as a whole. (PL) Madam President, Monday's arrests in Copenhagen show that terrorism is still a real threat in Europe.
It is true that this threat is not evenly distributed, with as many as 294 instances taking place in France and 145 in Spain, but at a time of globalisation, the whole territory of the European Union is of interest to terrorists.
Implementation of the basic conceptual documents, even something as fundamental as the counter-terrorism strategy, or the legislative instruments in the shape of the framework decision of June 2002, leaves much to be desired.
the Council's reluctance to give Europol, Eurojust, the Counter-Terrorism Coordinator and the SitCen any institutional, legal or financial muscle, which could transform ad hoc links into a genuine strategic cooperation against terrorism.
Various Member States have not yet even ratified the main international conventions in this field.
There have been arrests in Denmark and Germany, thank goodness.
I am obliged to Commissioner Frattini for his commitment in this regard; it shows that the Commission is on the right track.
However, the problem is the provision of data by Member States.
That is why I believe that the response from the European Union and the Member States to threats of terrorism must be radical and unequivocal.
Instead it should focus on prevention and preventive measures more so than it has done thus far, both within the Member States and externally in relationships with our overseas neighbours.
The objective of our common foreign and security policy should be to strengthen economic and social development, support for civil society and the concept of human rights, striving for peaceful solution to international conflicts, including the Israeli - Palestinian conflict.
This makes it clear, of course, that terrorism is a real and great danger, and it is without doubt one of our key tasks as politicians to protect people, to protect human life.
I am obliged to those who have said that we must weigh up whether our measures actually do what they are supposed to do.
There are a tiny number of people who have a literal reading of their religion who are involved in terrorism.
Madam President, terrorism is a threat to all states and to all peoples: it poses a serious menace to our security, to the values of our democratic societies and to the rights and the freedoms of citizens.
Obviously, new measures have increased the efficiency in the fight against terrorism, but there is more to do.
The Council must motivate its measures in public at European level.
The EU Member States that submitted to US pressure in using these methods have not only infringed the fundamental principles of the EU but have also opened up a path to illegality, exposing Europe to increased risks of terrorist retaliation.
The European Union must therefore, as a matter of urgency, draw up a joint code clearly setting out its principles and methods.
Firstly, it must guarantee the principles of human dignity and the rule of law in all aspects of combating terrorism.
Finally, in order to fight terrorism we need to work towards creating a fairer and more balanced international community; we need to identify causes and fractures, promote a culture of rights that takes in all peoples, and work hard to promote dialogue between civilisations.
Respect for our rights is not merely inalienably ours; it is our only path to welfare and security.
I believe that we need not only to evaluate the effectiveness of all anti-terrorism measures to date, but also to take careful stock of our progress, which must not consist merely of a series of reactions to terrorist activity.
The cooperation of the Member States is of vital importance.
Democratic control in this area, and especially the role of the European Parliament and national parliaments, guarantees the observance of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Treaty on European Union.
May I remind you that the European Parliament's resolution on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners recommends the use of methods that are in line with Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
I am sure we all welcome measures that genuinely help in combating terrorism, but I wonder how much of the long list of EU activity that we have heard about this morning falls into this category.
I have great respect for Commissioner Frattini but the EU really cannot claim credit for the actions of our national police and security services.
I mentioned the responsibility of our national authorities for these matters.
I am alarmed to read that a woman who for many months knew the suspected terrorists currently on trial for terrorist offences in Glasgow and who apparently did not report his activities is now employed as an immigration ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing combating terrorism I would like to focus on Article 6 of the Maastricht Treaty, which concerns fundamental rights and freedoms.
My work as leader of the delegation to Moldova and as a social democrat has been dedicated to the security of Europe, safeguarding our values and disseminating them in the neighbourhood policy countries.
To combat terrorism we also need support from countries such as Pakistan, Russia and even Iran.
Any curtailment of fundamental freedoms and rights in the European Union is reflected back fifteen-fold by the 15 neighbourhood policy countries, to say nothing of Russia and China.
Third countries observe what we do, not what we say.
The Commission and the Council must understand that the backing of our own citizens in the fight against terrorism will evaporate if we are unable to honour some of the fundamental rights enshrined in our founding treaties.
Madam President, I am not going to take part in this stupid debate on liquids.
Nothing scares terrorists more than our ability to react.
The threat of terrorism is built on our rigidity - the rigidity of settled, conservative systems - and our lack of ability to adapt to new dimensions in communication, flows of information, money transfers and flows of persons.
The resignation of Mr de Vries was clearly a very bad sign.
Commissioner, Member States have until December 2007 to implement the third Money Laundering Directive.
Then we can say clearly that we are ready to fight and to win. (PT) 12 December 2006 is a historic date, when the European Court ruled fully in favour of the argument that, years ago, I defended in this very Chamber against the Council and the Commission, on the right to be informed about an accusation of terrorism.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think this has been an extremely useful, interesting and highly opportune debate, all the more so in the light of recent events in Denmark and Germany, as mentioned previously.
I shall relay many of your suggestions, concerns and advice to the Council - as is my duty - and I should like to assure you that the Portuguese Presidency is, naturally, open to cooperation and dialogue with Parliament, having regard to the legal provisions by which we are governed.
However, we all, of course, agree that we must wage a firm and determined fight against this new scourge known as terrorism and that we must in no way call any truces in this fight.
No Member State standing alone could effectively face either the struggle or the threat which lie ahead of us and neither could any organisation or any group of countries standing alone.
In preparing for this debate, I made a note of the set of measures and actions we have taken in the field of prevention, protection, pursuit and response to terrorist attacks.
I concluded that, although there is still much to be done, a great deal has already been done and we shall have to try to improve in those areas where we have not done as well as we should have.
I should like to say that for the Portuguese Presidency as for the Council, the fight against terrorism can only be waged and will only be waged, I can assure you, within the framework of respect for our fundamental values and principles, the very points at risk in our fight against terrorism: that is, the defence of those principles and those values.
The Portuguese Presidency will be particularly vigilant on that point and will not compromise.
Finally, I should like to say - this point has received great attention here and I mentioned it myself in my first speech - that the Presidency is working in close coordination with the Secretary-General of the Council in examining the issue of the counter-terrorism coordinator, that is, how to extend his powers and capabilities to enable him effectively to play the role for which the position was originally created.
The Portuguese Presidency undertakes to speed up the debate within the Council's bodies and, at the appropriate time, announce the appointment of a new counter-terrorism coordinator.
We are not and never shall be indifferent to your points of view; we do not claim, and never have claimed, to be perfect or to say that all we have done was well done, irreproachable or not open to criticism.
On the contrary, our efforts will always be directed towards improvement in order to ensure that our societies always remain free, open and democratic societies, standing up to those societies who do not want that to be the case.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have spoken in this debate, which is so important.
In my introduction I gave some specific indications about some proposals.
In a little over a month, on 16 and 17 October, a European conference will be held for the first time on the role of education and schools in eradicating violent radicalisation among the youngest members of society.
We have called upon the world of education in Europe and, obviously, I invite observers from the European Parliament who would like to participate.
We are mapping all the initiatives launched in the Member States to combat radicalisation and prevent the recruitment of terrorists.
This is why we need to give Europol a stronger role.
Last December I put a proposal before Council on this subject and I hope that the Portuguese Presidency will support the adoption, before the end of this year, of an increased analytical role for Europol.
I am in favour of 'naming and shaming exercises'.
Last June I published a document highlighting very clearly which Member States are in default even in implementing the legislation in force against terrorism.
I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that greater collaboration with the United States is required, and, at the same time that we need more involvement by Europe.
It does not make sense for us to be slow in preparing and developing a European model and at the same time to reproach the United States because they, in fact, do have a model.
The problem is the terrorists and their activities in the heart of Europe.
This will also give us in the Commission and the Council more strength.
The vote will take place on 11 October.
Written statements (Rule 142) As in previous debates, the majority of the EP, the Commission and the Council have avoided going into detail or even making a serious analysis either of terrorism - in all its forms, including State terrorism - or of the 'fight against terrorism'; it is clear that they are constantly trying to take the analysis of terrorism out of context in order to draw a veil over the deep causes of terrorism and the policies that engender terrorism.
Even though some speakers have repeated to exhaustion the safeguarding of human rights in this 'fight against terrorism' and in the offensive of security measures backing up that fight, a growing number of situations and facts point to a failure to respect citizens' fundamental freedoms, rights and guarantees.
in writing. - The EU is all about free movement of people, goods, services and capital.
The fight against terrorism as part of international crime must not be neglected.
I doubt, for example, that the new restrictions on liquids on aeroplanes meet these criteria.
I should like a written reply from the Council and the Commission to my questions regarding the High-Level Contact Group on Data Protection and the US Foreign Intelligence and Surveillance Act.
We will proceed in line with the Rules of Procedure and also on the basis of the request made.
