We have tried, as best we could, taking as our yardstick what the European taxpayers are telling us, to improve the Commission's text in three directions.
rapporteur. - (NL) I should like to start by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their sound cooperation.
The European Union receives around EUR 20 billion from VAT revenue.
It is estimated that VAT fraud in Europe comes to EUR 100 billion per year.
The European Commission is introducing a major change, however, in seeking to hold suppliers acting in good faith jointly liable with importers who commit fraud.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in a globalised world, where tax evaders and fraudsters take advantage of the limited scope of authority of national tax administrations, efficient cooperation and mutual assistance between tax administrations is essential to better combat tax fraud and evasion.
Against this background I am glad to discuss with you tonight two proposals that both contribute to the objective of fighting tax fraud and tax evasion in two different tax areas.
This is perfectly in line with recent developments at international level - such as the G20 conclusions - favouring transparency and the strengthening of the cooperation between tax administrations on the basis of exchange of information.
Therefore I can assure you that the Commission, while rejecting Amendment 28 because it contradicts the aim of the Directive, has no negative view on Amendment 20.
However, the target date for the production of this study does not seem realistic: all Member States would also have to make available to the Commission, from this year onwards, the elements of statistics the transmission of which is set to be optional for them under the Council conclusions of May 2008 and Annex V of the amending proposal.
Concerning the other amendments of a more technical nature which aim either at extending the scope of a particular provision - like Amendment 17 on insurance - or at limiting the administrative burden on the economic operators, the Commission considers that its proposal is already the result of a delicate balance between improving the effectiveness of the Directive and limiting an additional administrative burden.
I would like to thank Parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, Mr Visser, for dealing with this proposal in such a short time and for the constructive report.
Amendments 2 and 4 of the report would require the Commission to carry out an evaluation on the functioning of the new cross-border joint and several liability provision.
Amendments 3 and 5 go against the division of competences between Member States in the overall functioning of the Community VAT system.
Parliament needs to be strict in this area.
Transparency in the banking sector must be ensured, and that will only be possible with the exchange of information.
To finish, Madam President, I hope that many of my fellow Members will heed the voice of reason and vote for Amendment 28 by my group, which will lead to no less than allowing the Member States a free choice between withholding tax and exchange of information.
This is why the PSE Group is suggesting that this period should be five years, which we believe is sufficiently short for the business sector, but also a long enough period for the tax administration to complete its work.
I hope that we will vote in favour of these reports tomorrow.
However, that is not our main problem today.
Unfortunately, I do not believe that the European Parliament will cooperate on this, but I would recommend to everyone in this Parliament that they do so. (NL) Contrary to my usual custom, I will begin with a political statement, as I find tax evasion and avoidance, in these times of increasing unemployment and increasing pay inequality, a real scandal.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank you for your comments and the views you expressed during the debate.
I am convinced that, once Member States agree on ways of closing existing loopholes in the Savings Taxation Directive, it is likely that the Council will ask the Commission to update in a similar way the agreements with the five non-EU countries and the 10 other jurisdictions participating in the savings taxation mechanism.
As regards Mr Visser's report, I have indicated before that the Commission cannot accept Parliament's amendments but we have taken note of the recommendations contained in the report.
I must also say to him that the only system that ensures that every taxpayer pays their taxes - which is what we all want - that the best system is levying withholding tax because the system of exchange of information is a failure.
I wanted to make this clarification.
in writing. - (ET) The loss of revenue due to tax fraud in all taxation categories amounts to more than EUR 200 million per annum in the EU, which is equivalent to nearly 2% of GDP.
The struggle against tax fraud is an extremely important topic for the EU, and we must retain our leading role in this area!
It is relatively easy to circumvent, for example by using as intermediaries investment companies that the directive does not define as paying agents and which are, therefore, under no obligation to participate in the information exchange system.
The rapporteur's proposed deadline for this, which is 2014, should receive our full support.
