Situation in China after the earthquake and before the Olympic Games (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in China after the earthquake and before the Olympic Games.
Our political and trade relations are particularly strong; I would point out that the European Union is China's largest trading partner.
The European Union responded swiftly by providing humanitarian aid; the Community Civil Protection Mechanism was immediately activated on 13 May to coordinate in-kind contributions from Member States; aid totalling EUR 25 million provided by the European Union, including the Member States - EUR 2.2 million of which were contributed by the Commission - has been channelled through the Red Cross.
In the declaration made by the Slovenian Presidency on 17 March on behalf of the European Union, the EU expressed its deep concern about the ongoing reports of unrest in Tibet and conveyed its deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims.
In our messages to the Chinese authorities, we have asked that a dialogue be established with the Dalai Lama in order to discuss key issues, such as the preservation of culture, religion and Tibetan traditions.
We also welcomed the informal meeting held on 4 May between the Chinese authorities and the envoys of the Dalai Lama; we believe that this is a step in the right direction and we have expressed the hope that this will lead to a further round of constructive dialogue with the Dalai Lama.
The Chinese authorities and the representatives of the Dalai Lama met again on 1, 2 and 3 July in Beijing.
After having consulted with all his counterparts in the European Council, the President of the Republic has announced his intention to attend the opening ceremony in his dual capacity as President of the French Republic and President-in-Office of the Council.
You will remember that, when I spoke in this House on 26 March, I called for a restart of talks between the representatives of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese Government.
The other event that marked a turning point in China's relations with the rest of the world was, as has already been said by the President-in-Office of the Council, the earthquake in Sichuan.
The scale of the human catastrophe provoked by the earthquake and the suffering of the people were enormous: 70 000 persons were reported killed and up to 10 million were displaced.
More importantly, the Chinese Government reacted in a swift and well-coordinated way on the earthquake, deploying over 130 000 soldiers for the rescue and allowing the press free access to the affected areas.
The President-in-Office of the Council has already mentioned what we as the European Union as a whole have been donating, and therefore I do not need to say anything about it.
Three events between now and the end of the year will have a crucial impact on EU-China relations from the Chinese point of view, and I think it is the same for us: the Beijing Olympics, the ASEM summit which will take place in Beijing on 24-25 October, and the EU-China Summit due to take place on 1 December in France.
The situation in Tibet will continue to focus attention during these months.
Last month, on 24 June, China also took a positive step by reopening access for foreign tourists to Tibet.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, my Group wishes to refer first of all to the resolution on the natural disaster in China and on the situation in Tibet that the European Parliament adopted by a large majority on 22 May of this year.
The PPE-DE Group hails the dedicated commitment of the Chinese Government to the reconstruction of the areas hit by the earthquake.
Die PPE-DE Group notes with grave concern that the Chinese Government has not yet taken the opportunity offered by the organisation of the Olympic Games to improve respect for universal human rights in China.
For this reason we call on the Chinese Government to establish universal civil rights, particularly freedom of the press, in time for the Olympic Games and to continue to guarantee them thereafter. (Applause) Lastly, the PPE-DE Group calls on the Chinese Government to show goodwill in the current talks with the Dalai Lama and to bring them to a positive conclusion, which should include provision for the cultural autonomy of Tibet.
We expect an outcome that boosts cultural autonomy and human rights in Tibet. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to express my admiration for the way the Chinese authorities have been dealing with the aftermath of the destructive earthquake that shook the province of Sichuan and affected almost 10 million people.
Regarding Tibet, I welcome the re-establishment of contacts and the two rounds of talks that have taken place between the Chinese authorities and envoys of the Dalai Lama.
That is the outcome of a statement such as the one you have made: nor have you mentioned the Uighur people simply because they do not have a transnational leader supporting non-violence, such as the Dalai Lama, and I believe that that is serious when we are talking about China.
Information from independent research institutions and human rights organisations tells us of the latest such event, which took place in the Tsendrok monastery in the Province of Amdo Maima.
Then, Sarkozy will say: 'that's three nuclear power stations and 36 high-speed trains', and I do not know what else.
However, these two events give us more opportunity to conduct an even more intense dialogue and to achieve tangible results, in discussions with our partners from the People's Republic of China, both in regard to ecology and human rights.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) On the afternoon of Wednesday, 18 June I had an appointment with three respectable, peaceable Chinese citizens at a hotel in Beijing.
Whatever the case, the Chinese authorities clearly wanted to prevent any personal contact between a member of the European Parliament and these three Chinese nationals.
I would like to recall the editorial in today's local newspaper, Les Dernières Nouvelles d'Alsace: 'L'Europe a capitulé' - Europe has capitulated.
Not only is President Sarkozy going to the Olympic Games, but also, on 16 June, broadcasts by a group that broadcast into China via Eutelsat, with the permission of the French authorities, were suspended.
Mr Cao Dong continues to be tortured in a prison in north-east China.
His wife, Ms Zhang Lianying, has been tortured many times and has been imprisoned four times.
Mr Hu Jia was arrested after giving evidence to the European Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights.
We support the position adopted by Angela Merkel in Germany, by the British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, by our own President, Hans-Gert Pöttering, and by other leading public figures, who have decided to stay away from the ceremony on 8 August.
The President of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, has said that his position will depend on the outcome of the negotiations between the Chinese and the representatives of the Dalai Lama.
I trust that the Olympics will ensure an excellent opportunity for us to deepen and extend our cooperation and dialogue with China in many areas.
I hope the Chinese authorities will use the opportunity of the Games to show their people that rules apply not only in the sporting arena, but above all to the duty incumbent on officialdom to respect human rights and freedom of expression. (PL) Mr President, 69 000 people died as a result of the earthquake of 12 May 2008, over 18 000 are missing and the number of wounded is over 37 000.
I believe that activities directed towards specific humanitarian assistance are more useful, and that dialogue is more successful than slogans and calls for boycotts and protests.
The human rights situation in China is improving and can be improved further.
This distinction is important and should be understood. (ET) Colleagues, through the ages the Olympic movement has striven for a better world.
The great event about to begin in Beijing has helped draw attention to Tibet and human rights.
By giving China the opportunity to host this worldwide sporting event, the International Olympic Committee imposed the very clear condition that by the year 2008 China should respect human rights.
It is unacceptable that President Sarkozy is going to represent the European Union in Beijing without visiting the political prisoners there.
The situation in Tibet has never been so tense.
And in my view the President's reaction is a slap in the face for those who are campaigning for human rights.
We are thwarting the hopes of all those people in China who are relying on our pressure to help them in their efforts to introduce democracy in China.
Mr President, the International Olympic Committee justified their granting of the 2008 Olympic Games to China by claiming that this would help open the country up to improvements in its human rights situation.
However, Chinese authorities have not heeded international calls to stop pursuing their follow-up to the riots of 14 March 2008 in Tibet.
Mr President, I support the Olympic Games being held in Beijing, but I also urge the European governments and institutions to demand that China abide by its commitments regarding human rights, namely those undertaken in order to have the Olympic Games in Beijing.
This requires that the European representatives who will - or will not - be attending the Olympic Games use this opportunity to draw attention to the situation of human rights in China.
There are many people in jail, including Hu Jia, who was jailed after speaking to us here in the European Parliament via a video-conference.
The international community should act to help a population that has suffered as a result of the tragic earthquake.
President-in-Office. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, it was not the European Union which decided, back in 2001, that the Olympic Games should be held in Beijing; it was the International Olympic Committee.
Only a strong Union will enable the two sides to conduct open discussions - that we all have been advocating - on any issue, even those that appear to be the thorniest; the European Union did not wait for the events to take place in Tibet to initiate such a dialogue.
We need a comprehensive dialogue with China because that country has an important role to play in the international community, and we must do everything we can - the Olympic Games are also a means to that end - to ensure that China is more effectively integrated into the international community.
It falls to us to ensure that preparations are made in the best possible circumstances, and this summit should provide an opportunity for the partnership between China and the European Union to address new issues, in particular those relating to action against climate change and to environmental and social standards - as many of you have said.
China's determination to play a more important role in the international arena must be accompanied by new responsibilities in the field of human rights, in the social sphere and in relation to environmental protection.
In this respect, after having consulted his colleagues and counterparts and received their consent, President Sarkozy, in his capacity as President of the European Union, assumes the responsibilities of engaging in a comprehensive dialogue between the European Union and China.
We should also address this issue with China, but we must also address it with all the other countries, and I hope that the same conservative Members who have spoken just now on the subject will do so.
I should like to remind you that there are other countries where the death penalty is in force that have relations with the European Union; however, we do need to have this comprehensive dialogue.
It is in that spirit, assuming all the responsibilities that are associated with his role and acting in full awareness of the nature of European values, that President Sarkozy, in his new role, will visit Beijing to convey this message and also to demonstrate that we have faith in the positive development of this great country with regard to its integration into the international arena.
Finally, I would say to Mr Cappato that, in all our relations, whether within the EU, with regard to minorities, or in relations between the Union and some of its partners, we must also have the same requirements and be careful before giving the whole world lessons in morality.
We have to continue having a dialogue with China.
Written statements (Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (SK) The Olympic Games in Beijing are approaching but, according to my information, the human rights' situation in China has not improved.
Press freedom is extremely important because the independent media are the ones that provide uncensored information on the human rights' situation in China.
The French company Eutelsat that transmits NTDTV suddenly stopped NTDTV's signal over Asia on 16 June 2008, apparently because of the pressure applied by the Communist Party of China.
I call on the Chinese authorities to show the world that the fact that the Olympic Games were given to Beijing has resulted in an improved human rights' situation in China.
The four years that have passed since the enlargement of 2004 have put to rest all the unfounded fears and misleading information that preceded it: the enlargement is an overwhelming success, and both old and new have gained a great deal from it.
