Inland transport of dangerous goods (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods (06920/3/2008 - C6-0160/2008 - (rapporteur: Bogusław Liberadzki).
rapporteur. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to welcome Commissioner Tajani to the House in his new role.
I should like to recall that at first reading Parliament adopted 42 amendments.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before speaking about the directive for which Mr Liberadzki is the rapporteur, I should like to thank this House for having placed its trust in me today as the European Commissioner with the transport portfolio.
I also thank him for the confidence that he has placed in me today and I hope that I will be able to work with him and indeed with all the Members of this House from today until the end of the parliamentary term.
The proposed directive on the inland transport of dangerous goods integrates international rules for the transport of dangerous goods into Community law and extends their application to national transport.
Regulation of the transport of dangerous goods is important for our transport system.
I would also like to thank my colleague Mr Liberadzki for the discussions that he led in the Committee on Transport and Tourism when examining this proposal for a directive on the transport of dangerous goods.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is not exactly crowded in here.
Mr President, I would like to thank first of all my friend and colleague Bogusław Liberadzki for his work on this important dossier.
I did not vote against him, I did not abstain, I just did not participate in the vote.
Therefore, it is important that we will have Community laws with common rules for all Member States, for the transport of hazardous goods, for all modes of transport.
This will improve safety on our roads and also on our inland waterways. (PL) Mr President, almost a year ago I was travelling along a motorway when I saw a tanker lorry carrying liquid gas overturn.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that a good job has been done in approving a legislative text which will contribute to making the roads in the European Union safer for citizens.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 19 June 2008.
