Kosovo (debate) - The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Kosovo. (DE) Madam President, we are discussing Kosovo today against the background of a very detailed report by Mr Lagendijk, the rapporteur, which is, of course, linked to statements from the Commission and the Council.
I would therefore ask the Bureau to consider whether someone who has worked for months as the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs should not also be given official speaking time.
As far as this specific situation is concerned, I recommend Mrs Kallenbach to request the minute under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure because that would make things significantly simpler.
The declaration of independence created a new situation and new challenges for the international community and for the EU in particular.
It also means continuing to see Kosovo within the wider framework set for the Western Balkans at the Thessaloniki Summit in 2003.
The policy of supporting a European perspective for all the Western Balkan countries, agreed on that occasion, has since been reaffirmed, most recently by the Council at its meeting of 8 December 2008.
His task, and that of his team, is to provide valuable support on the ground in order to help us collectively meet all our political objectives.
We are realistic enough to know that 2009 will present its fair share of difficulties and obstacles.
Kosovo institutions will also face many challenges in the implementation of their commitments to develop a stable multi-ethnic and democratic Kosovo.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, just one year after the declaration of independence, the situation in Kosovo, and in the whole Western Balkans region, is overall stable and under control, in spite of some incidents.
The European Union presence in Kosovo is progressively materialising, taking over from the United Nations.
The Commission's progress report of November 2008 was considered by the authorities to be an objective and fair assessment of what was achieved and of the challenges ahead.
The Commission takes all these issues very seriously.
We consider this a very important aspect of reconciliation and have supported the establishment of Kosovo's cultural heritage database.
Graveyards could also be included in this debate so as to ensure their proper restoration and preservation.
I would like to express our gratitude to the European Parliament for the additional amount of EUR 3 million, within the 2008 EU budget, for cultural heritage reconstruction in the war-affected areas in the Western Balkans.
The Commission has allocated half of this amount - EUR 1.5 million - to Kosovo, in a joint project with the Ministry of Culture, in the multi-ethnic town of Prizren.
We are grateful for the additional amount under this heading which is also allocated in this year's budget.
This money will also contribute to improving the local capacity to reintegrate returnees into the local social and economic environment.
With EUR 5 million, the Commission is among the main contributors to the fund.
The opening of a multi-ethnic European university college will receive our support once all local stakeholders reach an agreement to make this effort a sustainable project.
Finally, Kosovo also benefits from our multi-beneficiary programmes, covering the Western Balkans and Turkey, which fund the process of civil registration of Roma people.
Our support for Roma in Kosovo also includes education.
The EULEX mission must also ensure that the court cases which have been going on there for years are finally addressed and brought to an end.
In addition to what we have already heard, the European Union should consider not only taking action on a large scale, but also focusing more closely on the daily life of the people there and the opportunities for local projects involving local people.
This work is very important.
The people of Kosovo must become aware in their everyday lives that they all live together.
The government of Kosovo must also push ahead with its decentralisation programme.
I am, of course, very much in favour of establishing a multi-ethnic European college, which would be another joint institution alongside the University of Priština and the University of Mitrovica that focuses on a shared future.
Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I am completely in agreement with Mrs Pack in confirming that the EULEX Mission is a very great challenge for the European Security and Defence Policy, one of the greatest challenges in the entire history of the European Union as a Community based on the rule of law.
There was tacit agreement on the part of China and Russia, who had previously rejected any settlement of the conflict.
It is very important to clarify the division of competences between the Government and the Parliament of Kosovo, on the one hand, and EULEX, on the other.
The presence of EULEX in the north of Kosovo is very important in order to avoid partition of this territory.
With this resolution, we in the European Parliament are first and foremost sending out a signal to the people of Kosovo and to the peoples of the other countries in the Western Balkans that says 'you have not been forgotten, you are part of Europe'.
If the cultural, educational and religious rights of the Serbian minority are not respected, not only will bilateral relations between Kosovo and Serbia, as well as in other parts of the Balkans, become more difficult, it will also make Priština's road to European Union membership longer.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) It took EULEX nearly a year before it was able to carry out its original mandate.
EULEX was also to take charge in three areas: customs, police and jurisdiction and crucially, there was to be no - and I mean no - ambiguous relationship between EULEX on the one hand and UNMIK, the UN organisation, on the other.
Finally, a start has been made on the huge backlog of lawsuits in the fields of inter-ethnic violence and corruption, which demonstrates once more that EULEX's activities are in the interests of all the communities, not just the Albanians or the Serbs.
What I really hope is that EULEX's progress over the last couple of months will be sustained in a positive manner.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, rejects the resolution that has been tabled on Kosovo.
The majority of the Member States, but not all, have recognised Kosovo in contravention of international law.
My group insists that all the regulations concerning Kosovo must be in line with international law and must be agreed with all the parties involved, including Serbia.
The GUE/NGL Group rejects this mission as it is based on the recognition of Kosovo in contravention of international law and therefore creates something similar to an EU protectorate.
The EULEX mission also includes 500 policemen to combat insurrection.
On 26 January EULEX and KFOR held a joint exercise on combating insurrection.
At the same time, the EU and other organisations are promoting neo-liberal economic reconstruction in Kosovo, but this is not what the local people want.
EULEX should adopt a more assertive stance and should assist the Kosovar authorities wherever it can, whether this is solicited or not.
Secondly, I call for a master plan for the Western Balkans, which should work at a tangible level with all the countries involved to help them get ready to join the European Union.
The Commission has also declared itself in favour, together with 23 out of 27 Member States, all the G7 countries, four of the six former Yugoslavian republics and three of Kosovo's four neighbouring countries.
The first major risk is the division of Kosovo.
The protection for minorities offered by the former Ahtisaari plan, which now forms part of the Kosovan constitution, is the most comprehensive programme of protection in the world.
In this case I can only say that we must make EULEX stronger, because UNMIK was not the solution, but, in fact, part of the problem. (DE) Madam President, my fellow member Joost Lagendijk is in the same situation as Kosovo.
I am very pleased that the leaders of Serbia, despite their many harsh words at the beginning, have attempted to legalise and neutralise the situation in order to give the EULEX mission a chance.
I would ask everyone who is opposed to the EULEX mission what situation the Serbian and other minorities in the country would be in if the EULEX mission did not exist?
What matters now is for all of us to guide Kosovo towards maturity. - (PL) Madam President, a unilateral decision taken by the Albanian community resulted in the Serbian province of Kosovo being separated from Serbia.
UN Security Council Resolution 1244 remains in force.
It is quite simple: Kosovo belongs to Serbia. - (NL) Since Kosovo announced its independence nearly a year ago, the European Union has been hopelessly divided on this.
EULEX might be beneficial to the European Union, but could this also be said of Kosovo?
A project such as EULEX could perhaps have been useful for a short while, in the first few months of 2008, in order to avoid any chaos.
I, personally, experienced the war in Bosnia and finally left the country as a refugee.
I am pleased that Mr Lagendijk has been so clear in his resolution about the fact that we should put discussions about Kosovo's independence and the conflicts surrounding that behind us.
Some of the Members of this Parliament regret the EU's presence and involvement in Kosovo, but those of us who experienced the wars in the Balkans regret the fact that the EU did not involve itself both more clearly and more extensively.
This is what the whole European idea is about. (Applause) - (CS) I would like to mention briefly the role of Serbia in particular.
In this context I would also like to invite the High Representative of the European Union to ensure that the Kosovo authorities devote sufficient attention to multilateral development in the Mitrovica area.
Here we note the exceptional ill-health of 1 500 Roma people, who are sitting on the edge of a lead mine and have been there through UN misjudgement for nine years.
We have made progress, significant progress at that, and now we need to take that further.
I welcome, in particular, the fact that the efforts of EULEX are also helping the situation in Kosovo to normalise.
Yesterday, the EU Justice Mission opened its first war crimes trial in Kosovo.
The population must gain confidence not only in the government, but also in the legal system.
Women and minorities must also be fully involved.
Finally, the European Union also has a large responsibility to bear.
Stability, reconciliation and the development of the rule of law in Kosovo are of major importance for the Kosovars and all the ethnic minorities in Kosovo, but they are also in the interests of the European Union.
Therefore, Romanian Social Democrats will be obliged to vote against this report. (RO) According to the provisions of international law and having regard to UN Security Council Resolution 1244 adopted in 1999, Kosovo cannot be considered a state.
There are five EU Member States which have not recognised the act of unilateral independence declared by Kosovo.
The EULEX mission, which has already reached its initial operational capability, is an important first step in this direction as assistance and coordination are required to ensure, first of all, a climate of interethnic cooperation, making it possible to return to a normal way of life.
The protection of all minorities in Kosovo must be safeguarded, including that of the Serb minority.
Whatever is being asked of other countries in the region must also be applied to Serbia and Kosovo.
The European Union must insist on a resumption of dialogue between Priština and Belgrade.
I feel that the resolution as it currently stands does not reflect the whole gamut of positions on Kosovo from the European Union's 27 Member States.
Satisfied minorities are the firmest foundation for a country's security, sovereignty and economic development.
On 17 February 2008, I participated personally in the official celebrations in Priština marking the declaration of Kosovo's independence.
EU Member States can also make efforts to grant cultural or territorial autonomy to the ethnic minorities living within their territories.
It would be embarrassing if certain EU Member States were to lag behind Kosovo and Serbia in this respect. (RO) As an MEP and member of the Delegation for South-East Europe, I expect to hear, on behalf of our common values, which we call with pride 'European values', that the European Parliament and European Commission are requesting, with all their power and authority, the political parties in Kosovo to become open to multiethnic representation, and that any future progress in relations between Kosovo and the European Union depends on such a development.
I expected this report to tell us that the model which the EU intends to build in Kosovo, with European taxpayers' money, as it happens, is truly multiethnic, multicultural and multi-denominational, and not based on segregation.
I would like to highlight that the 1 900-strong international contingent includes 200 military and ordinary police from Romania.
A negotiated solution between Belgrade and Priština, possibly of a confederative nature, would have been preferable to the current situation.
This aspect is important for both Kosovo and the European Union, especially in the current economic crisis and with the limited resources we have. (RO) I agree with many of the ideas that have been expressed in the house, but this problem is much more complex.
Romania is right when it expresses the view that the legal basis for Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence is highly dubious as, under international law, minorities do not have collective rights and do not enjoy the right to self-determination and secession either.
Separatist movements in regions such as Kashmir, Nagorno-Karabah, Transnistria, Crimea, Northern Cyprus and so on have immediately stated that these regions are just as entitled to independence as Kosovo.
The European Union must make special efforts to maintain stability in the entire region of the Western Balkans and give substance to their European perspectives. - (SK) Kosovo exists here as a fact accepted by some and not by others.
Even if a majority of Member States are in favour of its independence or have recognised its independence there are five Member States which have not done so - not to mention the UN Security Council.
Kosovo's declaration of independence has also exposed a schism amongst Member States.
We in the European Union have a moral duty to help, but this assistance should never be open-ended.
There is a final report from a United Nations task force, the Commission's anti-fraud office and the Guarda di Finanza.
This final report has not yet been implemented.
It dates from the end of June 2008 and exposes serious cases of corruption involving EU funds.
This final report really is a final report.
The second is decentralisation and equal opportunities for all minorities there.
The third - and probably the most important and the most challenging - is the involvement of Kosovo in regional and European mainstreaming: regional cooperation in the Western Balkans.
Of course, dialogue with Serbia on the outstanding practical issues must be conducted with full transparency and a lot of intensity, but I think that realism should be the guiding principle for us.
I think that Parliament's support for EULEX is very important here.
When I read the text, I personally had no complaints about it, though I would probably be a bit careful: we all know the economic situation in Kosovo and the energy shortages in Kosovo, as well as in the Balkans in general.
There was a delegation led by Pierre Morel which visited the area in December, and they offered to meet with the Roma camp leaders in Trebca.
I think the meeting next week with Pieter Feith, who is also involved in this, will be an opportunity to discuss this further.
I think we had a very fruitful debate, and I hope that Parliament will continue to support all our efforts in Kosovo, as well as in the region.
The Commission has established an effective mode of cooperation with all local actors working in Kosovo, including EULEX and the EU's Special Representative.
Good cooperation so far has proved essential to maintain peace in this area.
The Commission financed a EUR 7 million project on the rule of law, including a component of EUR 1 million to fight corruption.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 5 February 2009.
