As you know, this proposal is one of the priorities of the French Presidency within the framework of the Pact on Immigration and Asylum.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, I think this is precisely what we are trying to do: to reconcile the fact that Europe always needs immigrants.
We are clearly going to be at a disadvantage demographically and in terms of attractiveness in comparison with other regions of the world and we must therefore maintain an open policy both within the European Union and towards real emerging countries and, within that framework, we must make sure, on the one hand, that we have a legal framework for economic migrants and, on the other hand, that we strike balanced agreements with the countries of origin by combining our uptake capacity and preventing a brain drain as far as they are concerned.
It was on this basis that the Council agreed a common position on 15 September.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) My thanks to Mr Aylward, Mr Allister and Mrs McGuinness for their questions.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, may I say in reply to Mr Ó Neachtain that, since the first framework programme for research was adopted, the Council has introduced a set of measures to improve access to information for enterprises.
I think this is an important step, but I think that what is important beyond that - and Mrs Doyle is right to insist on this, as is Mrs Riera - is that we multiply the practical information points.
It is set, as I understand it, at something like EUR 3 billion.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) In reply to Mr Ryan, as you know, the Cotonou Agreement introduced a new partnership between the European Union and the 78 ACP countries on 23 June 2000.
There is therefore still a consensus of views within the Council on this important question and a shared intention to achieve full regional economic partnership agreements which will bring about sustainable economic development in ACP countries.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) I think that, as far as transparency is concerned, these agreements should be highly transparent.
Fourthly, as far as fisheries along the coast of West Africa are concerned, I believe that Mrs Doyle is right.
Obviously, as the honourable Member rightly says, these rules need to be supplemented and reinforced and the Commission will, I hope, table some proposals as quickly as possible.
The French Government, to change hat for a moment, is spending more than 22 million in order to guarantee that these airlines fly into Strasbourg.
We do not want to construct a fortress Europe but we have to bear in mind that the Schengen area has been enlarged and that Schengen must function in a totally effective way, and that it is our common responsibility to combat cross-border crime and to ensure that illegality is completely deterred.
The guarantees contained in this regulation must be strengthened and we must continue this initiative - that is the whole idea of the pact on immigration and asylum that President Sarkozy described at some length in the sitting this morning.
So I believe that the Commission is, as I said, introducing red herrings and dragging its heels on this, and, given that France is itself producing these accounts, I would be very pleased to hear that you would at least recommend to Eurostat that they recommend to all EU countries that they produce these accounts. - (SK) More than 100 million Europeans of varying ages and varying religious beliefs and nationalities carry out voluntary work and the social capital represented by active volunteering plays a vital role in local democracy through a multi-layered partnership.
Questions 10 and 11 have been merged as they are very similar, but their authors will both get the chance to put supplementary questions to the Minister.
The French Presidency decided to carry on the complex and politically very sensitive debate on GMOs - debates that were begun by the previous presidency in order to arrive at a conclusion on this subject before the end of the year.
Therefore, as you know, President Barroso has set up a high-level group to address this question, and I think that you should see with the Commission what stage the work of this group has reached.
First of all I am not sure that there was full cooperation with this high-level group, but I would like to know what progress, if any, has been made, and when they will report, because it seems to me that Europe is more about activity on GM than on action, and what we need is action, because we have a situation where a very large country like the US, and others, are very happy about the way they assess GM, and Europe wants different criteria.
It has, moreover, encouraged the mediation efforts of the SADC, under the leadership of President Mbeki, to arrive at a more satisfactory result with regard to the choice made by the people of Zimbabwe on 29 March.
I should therefore remind you that we remain vigilant and remind you of the fact that the European Union remains active on all fronts - political, diplomatic, economic and humanitarian - to ensure that justice be given to the people of Zimbabwe.
Anybody who is in the Chamber and has a question down will receive a written reply. (Interjection from the floor by Gay Mitchell) I realise your problem, Mr Mitchell.
I said at the beginning of Question Time that we would finish at 19.00. (Interjection from the floor by Gay Mitchell) We try and maintain some order here, and I appreciate your concern. (Interjection from the floor by Gay Mitchell) I note your comments but I do not think I am to blame for that. (GA) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Council is aware that the NDC (the National Democratic Conference) is seeking new elections and that the plans to organise talks on power-sharing in Swaziland have been postponed for a week.
However, we have the maximum contacts that are possible in the current situation, whether with Louis Michel or Bernard Kouchner.
