(1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the continuation of the debate on the statement by the President-designate of the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this legislative period, our Parliament has to take on a new role, one that is also prefigured in the draft of the constitutional treaty.
The fact is that, numerically speaking, that is the only way in which a majority in this House will come into being, and that is why we are presented with the unaccustomed sight of parties that, in their domestic, indigenous, national reality are as a rule the complete natural antithesis of each other – Socialists on the one hand, Christian Democrats and Conservatives on the other – attempting in this House to work together from time to time, which, in many cases, evokes misgivings back home.
Mr&#160;Barroso, we have listened with great care to what you have said to us.
We have taken note of your answers, and I have to say today that you have used the right words.
We are anxious to hear whether we are to be given them today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Barroso, allow me firstly to congratulate you on your nomination to the post of future President of the European Commission, and allow me also to make a few comments on three points I believe to be important.
Firstly, on the role of the Commission and the appointment of its President, secondly, on the common foreign and security policy and, thirdly, on diversity, subsidiarity and shared sovereignties in the European Union.
With the new Constitutional Treaty, which will enter into force during these five years of your coming term in office, and also that of this Parliament, this issue is going to change, and it will be the European Council which, taking account of the result of the elections, will propose to Parliament the candidate to be elected President of the Commission, who will then be elected by the European Parliament.
I would like to ask you, Mr Barroso, whether you believe that, with the new Constitutional Treaty, the Commission is really going to become a genuine executive government for the Union; whether you believe that, when the citizens vote in the elections to the European Parliament, they are truly going to feel that their vote is decisive and that with it they are going to be electing a President who will govern the Union over the coming years.
Secondly, you hosted the meeting in the Azores which determined the invasion and war in Iraq.
You said that being the Portuguese Prime Minister and the President of the Commission are two different things and, when you were the Portuguese Prime Minister, you said that if there should be a war between Saddam Hussein and the United States the choice clearly had to be the United States. &#160;&#160; I would ask the honourable Members to be seated and to allow the sitting to proceed normally. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I am just coming to the point that justifies this demonstration, which for us is very important.
At the moment, we as the European Union have our own independent position on a number of subjects and I should like to know how you intend to act on foreign policy, particularly on issues on which we hold distinct views, such as Guantánamo Bay, the WTO and Kyoto, because your replies have been rather vague and come more from the Portuguese Prime Minister than from the future President of the Commission. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, no change can ever be brought about without constant and open consultation with the people affected by that change.
The old European Union has ceased to exist; the new European Union must be far more flexible, more cost-effective and more transparent to its citizens.
Mrs&#160;Muscardini, our group leader, has already stated that Mr&#160;Barroso can count on our full support.
I would like to assure Mr&#160;Barroso that he can also count on the full support of my home party in Poland, the Truth&#160;and&#160;Justice Party.
The current common agricultural policy and the reforms to it are, alas, common only in name, since, for example, the common agricultural policy gives support to the original Member States of the EU in the form of direct payments several times greater than the amounts given to the new Member States.
As a&#160;result, up to a&#160;third of the market for food products in the new Member States is accounted for by products from the 15 original Member States, despite the fact that the new Member States were, until recently, net exporters of foodstuffs.
The new agricultural policy of the United States in particular is almost aggressively focused on development and expansion.
One is to uphold, nurture and develop European solidarity in its political and economic dimension.
The other relates to the Eastern dimension, which is a new dimension for the European&#160;Union.
The new Member States must be given the opportunity to make up for lost time.
We are making a political judgment of your stand on the war in Iraq, your identification with the choices made by the United States and the famous meeting in the Azores.
That is why we are not persuaded by your political pronouncements and we are against your nomination. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President-designate, my colleague Marco Pannella and I will support your appointment and we will do so primarily for institutional reasons.
Please allow me, however, to offer a comment and a recommendation for what I hope will be strong parliamentary support.
We Radicals are convinced that even prosperity, peace and stability make no sense and cannot be achieved without a strict, clear and coherent agenda to promote and support the rule of law, democracy, freedom, and civil and political rights, not only for the 400 million European citizens but also for the people of the whole world, starting with the world close to us.
I believe this is what we should be promoting, with strength and leadership. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having listened to Mr Barroso with a great deal of interest, both here and in his hearings before our group, that of the Greens and European Free Alliance, my opinion of him has not changed.
I am still not satisfied, as you, Mr Barroso, have not responded to our questions concerning REACH, for example, which includes among our policies a bold policy on chemical products, or to our questions concerning comitology, a barbarity according political power to the Commission and not to the representatives of the people, namely ourselves.
They want to be governed by their own people in their own parliament – and they will be during the lifetime of this Parliament.
We want our country back and, believe you me, we are going to get it. &#160;&#160; You naturally have the right to use the time available to you as you wish.
I will speak English when I have to, to explain, but my own language comes first. &#160;&#160; I appreciate that, but at Council meetings the Irish Government will have to try to make Irish a working language, alongside English.
That being so, we in this House cannot be surprised that there is growing disenchantment with Europe in every corner of the EU, whilst you, Mr Barroso, speak in terms of a few people being sceptical about Europe and many being apathetic about it, which is much more dangerous.
This Euro-apathy will become rejection of Europe if we go over the public’s heads in this way.
Many of us in this Parliament hope that you have a political vision for the European project and that you can set the course for it.
Mr Barroso, we hope that, on this occasion, a large majority of this Parliament ratifies the European Council's proposal – because you deserve it and your career bears this out – to appoint you as President of the European Commission. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, President-designate&#160;Barroso, I note that Mr&#160;Barroso declared his support for the Lisbon&#160;Strategy.
I should like to ask you, Mr&#160;Barroso, whether you are prepared to insist on compliance with fiscal policy within the European&#160;Union.
You somewhat remind me of your mate Tony Blair.
I hope we can rely on you to prioritise civil liberties and human rights in the future. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the reasons why we shall be voting against the candidature of Mr Barroso are very simple.
We, however, take the opposite view, that Europe needs a change inspired by the movements demanding rejection of the war, social policies, democracy and citizenship through residence.
Frankly, these are all things that Mr Barroso does not represent. &#160;&#160; Madam President, our group’s Dutch sub-group is contemplating backing Mr Barroso’s candidature despite our constitutional reservations.
Moreover, you are in favour of enlargement to include countries like Turkey that have nothing to do with our culture or history.
We shall therefore vote against this Presidency, which represents policies favouring the interests of the banks, global finance and countries whose interests and policies are at odds with those of the nations of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Mr Barroso as a dynamic representative of the Europe which we all envision for the twenty-first century, of a Europe whose main objective will be to meet the expectations of the people, by bringing different countries together in a common ambitious future, in which there must be smooth cooperation between the twenty-five countries today and, later, between more members following their integration into the European Union.
We welcome his assurance that the confidence of European citizens in Europe and how it operates will need to be strengthened.
In this new era, European citizens are demanding support for diversity and, at the same time, participation in an even more democratic future, which needs to provide a feeling of security and prosperity.
That is why I wish him every success. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr&#160;Barroso, I have just come from the Swedish Parliament where, in the last ten years, every other politician has been a woman.
Half of the electorate are women who, in many cases, are also doubtful as to what the EU can offer them.
My group is organising a meeting for people with disabilities on the 24 September.
Mr Barroso, we are voting against you and we shall be waiting for you in Athens. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;President-designate of the Commission, Dr&#160;Durão Barroso, I wish you good luck.
A success for you will be a success for Europe and we need and want every success for the Europe to which we belong.
You told us that you want an independent Commission.
You told us that you want a Europe based on solidarity.
You told us that you want a Europe that is more than an internal market, one that is a Europe of citizens.
We appreciated what you said in your address yesterday about unemployment and job creation, about combating inequality and about security.
I was pleased to hear you saying yesterday that Portugal may be on the edge of Europe geographically speaking, but that it is nevertheless at the heart of Europe.
It will therefore be for us to ensure that our citizens take Europe and this common project to heart. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President-designate, I should like to put two issues to you, to which I would be grateful for a reply, or a less vague reply at least.
As you know, the Constitutional Treaty, which is to be signed in Rome on 29&#160;October, clearly states the value of pluralism of information.
In addition, on 22&#160;April this year, the European Parliament adopted an important resolution on the risks of violating freedom of expression and information in the European Union.
The second issue concerns Iraq, a country that I have known well since the Gulf War in 1991.
Since this matter was not dealt with clearly enough in your address, I should like you to explain what concrete initiatives you intend to adopt in order to achieve a common European position in favour of peace and to ensure that Europe plays an important role and maintains an active presence in the process of reconstructing civil society and democracy in Iraq.
I came back from Iraq two weeks ago and I can tell you that the Iraqis have just one message to give: we want Europe more and we do not want to be left alone just with the Americans. &#160;&#160; Madam President, firstly, I should like to wish Mr&#160;Barroso good luck in the forthcoming vote and with the work on creating an agenda for the reform of Europe.
That development towards freedom, democracy and states governed by the rule of law that we have been able to see in so many countries in recent decades could not have happened without the European Union.
You are a clever man who can rise to an occasion, but you are not –unfortunately – a man of convictions, although it is convictions, along with actions, that are needed if the citizens of Europe are to regain trust in Europe and in its institutions.
The democratic structure of the new Europe requires the trust of its citizens and respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
A declaration of the Slovak parliament, adopted as early as January 2002, emphasises in this respect the sovereignty of the Member States of the European Union in cultural and ethical matters.
I&#160;should also mention the role of women in childcare, in looking after people with disabilities and the elderly, and women refugees, who, despite their own suffering and problems in hopeless situations, get involved in helping people who are suffering even more than they are.
I&#160;call upon you to take part actively in celebrating the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty on 17 October.
So joining forces in order to ensure that these rights are respected is our sacred duty.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr Barroso, our group chairman, Mr Schulz, stated here yesterday that we have asked a few questions in the group, that we have received a response from you to some, but that a whole host of questions remain unanswered.
It is important that the result of the European elections is reflected in the choice of President of the Commission, just as we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have called for.
I am convinced that the Council’s unanimously chosen candidate has excellent potential for playing a strong role as President of the Commission.
I also believe that during your term of office you will develop transatlantic relations further, which are so important for us Europeans.
This must be the joint top priority for all of us Europeans who love Europe and our own countries.
Let us make decisions at European level only in those matters where decisions at European level have clear added value for European citizens.
There is a lot of prejudice over the policies you put forward in Portugal and because of your political convictions.
We have to decide on the basis of these points whether or not you are the right candidate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, in my one-minute contribution, I should like to concentrate on just one aspect, namely social cohesion in the enlarged Europe.
The elections for the European Parliament in the new Member States and the decidedly low turnout indicated that considerable scepticism prevails in that part of Europe towards the European Union, and often indeed towards the European concept itself.
Mr Barroso, I should like to hear you give a clear reassurance that, when you become President of the European Commission, you will advocate the principle of equal treatment between old and new Member States and you will fight for the gradual removal of all inequalities, including social inequalities, in the enlarged Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Barroso, I would like to make an appeal to you and as I am the last speaker, I hope that you will remember it.
On 1 May this year, ten new Member States joined the European Union.
Just look at the problem of unemployment and social exclusion.
Turning to your specific questions, I have arranged my replies in clusters, something I am very much in favour of in such cases.
First then, international issues, on which I shall reply in particular to the questions by Mr&#160;Watson, Mrs&#160;De&#160;Sarnez, Mr&#160;Schultz, Mr&#160;Ortuondo Larrea and Mr&#160;Kristovskis about a strong European presence on the world stage.
I am in favour of Europe continuing to be in the vanguard on free and fair trade in the context of the Doha negotiations and of Europe promoting a multilateral approach both to political issues and to trade issues.
I believe that in this area Europe has a social duty that it cannot abdicate.
That is also why we need resources in the new Financial Perspectives to match our ambitions, and we must also endeavour to meet our commitments in relation to the United Nations Millennium Declaration, together with our Monterrey commitments on development aid.
The new Constitution – the new Constitutional Treaty – will help us to consolidate that security and defence identity.
It is in our interest to work together on Iraq, and to attempt to reach a common vision, particularly on stabilising Iraq and the surrounding region, a vision of an independent and sovereign Iraq, an Iraq at peace with itself and with its neighbours.
I shall accordingly try to respond to the questions put to me by Mr&#160;Wurtz, Mr Swoboda, Mr&#160;António Costa, Mrs Napoletano, Mr&#160;Wiersma, Mrs Frassoni, Mrs&#160;Gruber, Mr&#160;Paasilina, and all the others, by saying that in future, as President of the Commission – if I receive your endorsement – I shall attempt, as far as I possibly can, and working together with the Member States, to ensure that there is a common vision, something of which there has not been any sign amongst the Member States nor even, if we are honest, within our respective political families.
But as regards Iraq, and also our relations with the United States in particular, I wish to repeat what I said yesterday.
I am very proud to be a European.
If you confirm me as President of the Commission, it will fall to me to defend Europe's general interests and common good, and not country A or country B's foreign policy stance.
I will not be bound by the foreign policy of one government or another, but I shall be engaged in seeking a common foreign policy for the European Union as a whole.
As regards relations with the United States, a question raised by various honourable Members, including Mr&#160;Swoboda, Mrs Mussolini, Mr&#160;Schultz and Mr&#160;Evans, I believe that it is important that the European Union should not define itself in terms of its opposition to any given country or region.
We have our own identity.
Mrs&#160;Grossetête, Mrs De&#160;Sarnez, Mr&#160;Martinez, Mr Mulder and Mr&#160;Belder in particular referred to Turkey.
What we need is a constructive policy in order to spread prosperity and stability to our immediate neighbours, to the east, in the Balkans and in the Mediterranean region, in addition to our active contribution through multilateral world organisations, and above all through the United Nations.
We must therefore strengthen our relations with our immediate neighbours, because our own security and stability also depend to a large extent on our doing so.
In any case, in order to demonstrate my own concerns about this, I made myself available to appear before all the political groups in the European Parliament, so that I went well beyond my obligations under the Treaty to show my respect for Parliament.
The new European Constitution, the new Constitutional Treaty, adds a political dimension to the selection of the President of the Commission.
Another question put to me by many honourable Members, notably Mr&#160;de&#160;Villiers, Mrs&#160;Bonino and Mr&#160;Carlos Coelho, was the issue of relations between the Commission and Parliament, and I would like to use the expression that I used in my address, ‘a close positive relationship’.
As regards the debate about the future of Europe and about ratification – an issue raised by Mr&#160;Schultz, Mrs Grossetête and Mr&#160;Dehaene in particular – I would like to say that this is a debate that we have to win at national level, and all politicians, be they Members of the European Parliament, members of national parliaments or others, can take part in this debate.
I believe that the European Parliament has a very important role to play in monitoring the work of the Commission.
In order carry out this monitoring role, the Members of the European Parliament need information, and I am prepared to give you that information.
Furthermore, the positive work already initiated by President Prodi in this area must be acknowledged.
I hope that the Commission will be able to provide Parliament with full information on these groups of experts and working groups on a regular basis.
As regards your wider questions about documentation and information, I am willing to provide Parliament with that information.
Yesterday I said that I am determined to have a greater proportion of women Commissioners than has been the case up to now, but a number of women Members have asked me today exactly what my objective is.
Some of the most frequently asked questions were about economic and social issues, and in particular the issue of social cohesion and the Lisbon agenda.
Members who asked me questions on these issues included Mr&#160;Schultz, Mr&#160;Poignon, Mr&#160;António Costa, Mr&#160;Itälä, Mrs&#160;Figueiredo, Mr&#160;Titley, Mr&#160;Rasmussen, Mr&#160;Rosati, Mr&#160;Paasilina and Mr&#160;Hökmark.
That is why I see the Lisbon agenda as an economic agenda, an agenda for competitiveness, but also a social agenda and an agenda for environmental protection.
Yet at the same time we have to choose one priority and that priority must be growth and employment.
That must clearly be our priority and we will have an opportunity to define it in the mid-term review of the Lisbon agenda that is being prepared by former Prime Minister Wim Kok.
I hope that we will try to make growth and job creation our priorities, because those are the factors that can genuinely guarantee the social agenda.
As regards the Financial Perspectives, particularly in relation to the new Member States, I would like to reply to the questions asked by Members including Mrs&#160;Vaidere, Mrs&#160;Kósáné Kovács, Mr&#160;Rouček and Mr&#160;Pahor.
Turning to the question of media pluralism, an issue which Mrs&#160;Napoletano raised yesterday and Mrs&#160;Gruber today, this is a very important subject which goes to the heart of our democracy and the issue of Europe's cultural diversity.
Media pluralism is a principle that is clearly recognised in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and which is now enshrined in the Constitution itself.
We should not underestimate the difficulties associated with this subject, although I would like to make it absolutely clear that I personally am in favour of respect across the board for the principles of pluralism of information.
Precisely because this is such a sensitive subject, the Union has established a comprehensive regulatory framework for GMOs so as to ensure a scientifically based system suitable for dealing with all these issues.
I am convinced that this system should now be applied with firmness and determination, because our credibility is at stake here.
The truth is that this system is the most advanced in the world, and we cannot therefore afford to sacrifice our credibility here.
I have clearly stated my values: freedom, respect for human rights, the rule of law, equal opportunities and solidarity.
But as President of the Commission, I shall certainly seek compromises, because I am not here just as a representative of one political family, and I am convinced that the President of the Commission should work with the PPE family, with the Liberals and Democrats, with the Socialists and with other Members in various groups who essentially agree on making progress with the European project.
This does not betoken a lack of conviction, it means that I am convinced of the virtues of pluralism, of compromise and of the Community method.
In order to function, the European Union needs political leadership.
It functions on the basis of political courage and I can promise you that I shall endeavour to exercise that political leadership not in a party political way, but by seeking a dynamic consensus, because I believe that the Commission can indeed be the pilot of the European Union, which is in a decisive phase of its history with the conclusion of the enlargement of the EU, thus demonstrating our solidarity and looking forward to peace, prosperity, security and solidarity, not just within our own continent but also beyond it.
That is why the Communist Party of Greece voted against Mr José Manuel Barroso. (2) &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to table a motion on a point of order.
The three people concerned are: Mrs Jana Hybášková, Mrs Nina Škottová and Mr Rihards Piks.
This right must be strictly respected.
Our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, welcomes the unanimous proposal by the Council that José Manuel Durão Barroso be appointed President of the European Commission.
Even if you have not yet come to this conclusion, I have to tell you for my own part that that way he presented himself to the groups – all of them – yesterday and this morning here in the European Parliament, very definitely convinced me that Mr Barroso is the right person and suited to the office of President of the European Commission.
That is what José Manuel Durão Barroso is willing to do, and that is another reason why we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are of one mind in believing that we should entrust him with the task and the responsibility that go with the office of President of the European Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to preface my remarks by saying this to Mr Barroso: we have had extensive discussions with you and have come to know you as someone whose personal integrity is beyond question.
Mr Barroso, what I want to say to you on a personal level is this: if I had heard from your lips, even if only as an indication: ‘If the information I possess today had been available to me a year ago, I would perhaps have taken a different decision with regard to the war in Iraq.’ Even if you had only alluded to this ... ...
Those members of our group who will express their confidence in you enjoy the group’s solidarity and respect, but the Socialist Group in the European Parliament cannot, today, give you a vote of confidence.
I am sorry to have to say that but, should you win, you may well gain our confidence in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as our new House has taken on a Teutonic style, I will offer a few words in the language of Goethe.
You know, Hans-Gert, it would not have been so bad while Enrique Barón Crespo was there.
The trouble is that, in those days of lovely warm weather after 13 June, when Enrique went down to the beach he found Martin Schulz's towel on his deck chair!
Mr President-designate of the Commission, in today's vote for your nomination as next President of the Commission you will receive the support of the overwhelming majority of Liberals and Democrats in this House.
Mr Barroso, I am sure you are capable of being a good President of the Commission.
If you are elected, I will cheer you, and if you are not, I will advise you to make Socrates your holiday reading. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may strike a more serious note, I simply want to confirm that my group, that of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, will not be voting for Mr Barroso as a candidate.
In any case, this is what we will be doing during this Parliament, as we did during that which preceded it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased to be able to speak this morning on behalf of this new Independence and Democracy Group, the fastest growing group in the European Parliament, which I believe reflects public opinion across the European continent.
The 25 sovereign governments in their wisdom have given their support to Mr Barroso and, if for no other reason, that is enough for me to give him my support.
My group, the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, and I will be giving our full support to Mr Barroso's nomination and we hope other Members will do so well. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Barroso, on behalf of the non-attached Members who are on the European Right, let me say that I do not reproach you for the revolutionary past that you share with Mr Cohn-Bendit, for his example shows that one can have a revolutionary past of this sort and nonetheless be, today, an outstanding supporter of the system.
As the European system gives it considerable power to initiate legislation and implement policies, the Commission in Brussels has acquired, by means of the Treaties, the right to govern an ever greater part of the lives of 400 million Europeans, and it is to this development that we object.
Finally, although you have been very careful and diplomatic in taking the precaution of not saying anything on the subject, you are a forthright advocate of the early commencement of negotiations on the accession of Turkey, which is an honourable country, but not a European one, whether in a geographical, cultural or historical sense.
That is all. &#160;&#160; The results of the vote are as follows: 711 votes expressed, 3 void papers, 44 abstentions and blank votes, 664 votes cast, 413 votes in favour and 251 against.
Mr President, I would like to tell you that I am very honoured to be able now to serve the European Union as President of the Commission.
I am delighted, honoured and proud that the European Parliament has confirmed my appointment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to express to you again my profound European convictions.
I hope that, both in the Commission and in Parliament, we will be able to maintain the kind of relationship I have called a close, positive relationship – which is important for Europe – while respecting our differences and endeavouring to set above all else our shared vision for Europe. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.(1)
