The Dührkop Dührkop report on the stepping up of cooperation between prosecution agencies in combating terrorism and cross-border crime is a valuable initiative that reinforces the action in favour of greater security for US citizens that was initiated in 2005 by the Prüm Treaty.
The time taken for matters to be examined at Ombudsman level should be reduced to the bare minimum.
Finally, the problem we are discussing today demands appropriate debate, further research, as well as solutions of a moral and ethical nature. (CS) I would like to thank my fellow Members for supporting the European People's Party proposals concerning Europol and research.
Mr President, in addressing the subject of the report on organ donation, I wish to pay tribute to my former assistant, James Sullivan, who, as many of you will know, died tragically on 10 February.
In our office on 8 February, James and Aoife, another assistant, talked about presumed consent and agreed that should anything happen to either of them - both young people - they would donate their organs.
Mr President, do you know, I have never had any sort of power in this place before!
Mr President, I voted for the 2006 discharge of the European Parliament, but against the marathon resolution which accompanied it, because it contains comments and questions that either state the obvious (paragraph 58), or do not uphold values which I consider important (paragraph 65).
Apart from the fact that it is absurd for a report on 2006 to demand the presentation of accounts for 2007, I can reassure the authors.
The update for 2007 has been done, but it will first be presented to the board of directors of the fund, which is a Luxembourg non-profit organisation.
Since I am not devilish, I voted against. (RO) In the Pomés Ruiz report Section I - European Parliament, I voted in favour of the amendment forbidding European Parliament members to employ family members.
The reasons are very simple: in some European Union Member States, including the country I come from, Romania, there is a debate regarding the credibility of parliamentary institutions and even of parliaments.
Mr President, I could have given an explanation of vote on every agency, but in fact you made my point for me in the voting session.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (SV) We voted in favour of the report, as it is of the utmost importance to strengthen and improve the efficiency of cooperation between Member States in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, who approved, subject to amendments, the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany with a view to the adoption of a Council Decision on the implementation of the decision on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. - (SV) The Moderate Party today voted in favour of Mrs Dührkop Dührkop's (PSE-ES) report on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
However, we cannot support the rapporteur's Amendment 3.
in writing. - (SV) Police and judicial cooperation falls within the third pillar and is thus exclusively intergovernmental.
Decisions in this area should therefore not be taken by the European Parliament or any other supragovernmental body.
Fundamental and extensive protection is already in place in this respect through the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has been signed by all Member States.
On this point we are therefore in line with the report regarding requests for the DNA of people who have been acquitted or discharged.
The report, however, goes too far in many respects when it discusses the introduction of framework decisions in many areas such as procedural guarantees and the adoption of a general legal instrument to cover the entire area of police and judicial cooperation.
in writing. - (SV) I definitely consider that combating terrorism and cross-border crime is one of the things the EU should cooperate on.
The adoption by all Member States of the Prüm Treaty proposed in 2007 by Germany forms part of the much needed improvement of police cooperation within the EU.
It is important that this cooperation is not limited to the seven countries that signed the Prüm Treaty but that, as suggested by the first amendment in the report, a uniform set of procedural guarantees at EU level is laid down.
I believe it is of fundamental importance that the European Union equip itself with a level of data protection which is high, harmonised and therefore able to guarantee law enforcement and the effective protection of citizens.
in writing. - (CS) The report by Mrs Bárbara Dührkop Dührkop on cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime is very important for two reasons: firstly because it is necessary to combat effectively the above-mentioned phenomena, and secondly because of the issue of protection of civil rights and liberties.
in writing. - I supported the Jäätteenmäki report on the performance of the Ombudsman's duties and in particular welcome the changes to the Institutions' duty to provide the Ombudsman with information required in his work.
I welcome the areas of action identified, namely: improving quality and safety, increasing organ availability and making transplantation systems more efficient and accessible, in addition to a mechanism to strengthen cooperation between Member States and the adoption of a Community legal instrument setting quality and safety requirements for organ donation, procurement, testing, preservation, transport and allocation across the EU and the resources needed to meet these requirements.
Given the increasing need for organ transplants, the growing transplant waiting lists and the consequent rise in the number of deaths due to a shortage of donated organs, promoting best transplantation policies in the EU is vital for saving more lives and offering European citizens a better quality of life.
Official studies state that nearly 40 000 people are currently on waiting lists in Western Europe.
in writing. - (FR) I would like to use this vote to underline the permanent discrepancy that exists between the words and actions of the European Union in certain areas.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report.
Unfortunately, there is a continuing organ shortage and in Europe almost 10 people on transplant waiting lists die each day.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Adamou report which deals with an issue of vital importance to all of Europe and encourages cooperation between Member States on matters relating to organ transplantation.
We welcome the positions taken by the rapporteur regarding the development of organ donation and transplantation in the EU; the ban on any form of financial transaction between donor and recipient, and on the commercialisation of transplants; and the struggle against transplant tourism in countries where trading in organs takes place and the recognition that the trade in organs is linked with social inequalities.
Consequently, Member States must take measures to improve their donor pool, through sharing best practice and increasing awareness of the very serious issue we face regarding organ donation.
The recommendations contained in the report by Mr Adamou are a step in the right direction: an exchange of best practice, increased cooperation, more organ sharing between Member States, better public awareness and the need to preserve the voluntary and non-commercial nature of organ donation.
Mortality rates while waiting for a transplant usually range from 15% to 30%.
As we all know, organ transplants can save lives and improve the day-to-day existence of many of our fellow citizens.
However, the need to make up for this organ shortage should not lead us to sacrifice our values.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the report by Mr Adamou on 'Organ donation and transplantation: Policy actions at EU level, on organ donation and transplantation: Policy actions at EU level' for therapeutic purposes, which emphasises the importance of healthcare for citizens at EU and global level.
Finally, I would underline the absolute importance of combating organ trafficking both within and outside the EU, by recognising that this unlawful action is always synonymous with poverty and desperation.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by Mrs Harkin on the role of volunteering in contributing to economic and social cohesion.
in writing. - (PT) There can be no doubt that what is known as 'volunteering' fulfils a very important social role as a contribution to finding answers to citizens' problems and needs, namely by promoting effective solidarity and mutual assistance.
in writing. - (PL) A democratic system cannot function effectively without a civil society.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Harkin report recognising the immense contribution of the voluntary sector in promoting social and economic cohesion.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the resolution regarding the contribution of volunteering to the European social cohesion, but I would like to make some specifications of a financial-budgetary nature.
The operators of this service are companies and NGOs accredited by the European Commission in each Member State.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report highlighting the role of volunteering in contributing to economic and social cohesion in the EU.
The Commission should work towards putting in place a system for all Community funds whereby volunteer activity can be recognised as a contribution to co-financed projects.
The Commission, the Member States and regional and local authorities should promote volunteering through education at all levels so that it is seen as a normal contribution to community life.
in writing. - I welcome Ms Marian Harkin's report on the role of volunteering in contributing to social and economic cohesion.
The contribution volunteering makes to society is invaluable.
I agree with the rapporteur that the European institutions must set up a flexible and non-bureaucratic support system.
I see volunteering as a form of renewable energy and consequently support the rapporteur's recommendation that 2011 be declared the European Year of Volunteering.
We should encourage it and recognise it, but never view it as an extra that we can take advantage of or use as an excuse for doing less towards offering and creating a constantly improving quality of life in European societies.
The Harkin report sets out ways in which the Commission and Member States can help volunteering.
in writing. - (SK) Firstly, there is the problem of the financing for non-governmental organisations from Community funds.
Human capital is volunteering's greatest contribution to social cohesion.
I voted for discharge in respect of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2006 and the report by Mr Jørgensen, which recommends granting discharge to the Commission.
Currently, this is accounted for either through a single national management declaration or in the form of several declarations within a national framework.
in writing. - (NL) The Committee on Budgetary Control would like to grant the European Commission discharge for its financial management over the 2006 budget year.
It is for this fundamental reason that Conservatives will once again be voting against the 2006 discharge for the European Commission and other institutions.
It is worth remembering that, in accordance with the 'n+2 rule', this amount will 'expire' if it is not used by the end of 2008.
in writing. - (PL) On 22 April 2008 an important discussion was held in connection with the vote on the budget discharge for 2006.
Meanwhile, there should be an investigation into the reason why there is a low level of take-up for the ERDF and ESF cohesion funds in the new Member States.
Fifthly, some Member States have entered certificates audited by national control agencies relating to the management of EU funds.
This form of financial management in the EU should be extended to take in other countries of the Community.
Finally, it is worth emphasising that 2006 is the last year of the Berlin Agenda (2000-2006 financial perspective), so this should be a budget year that features a good take-up of EU money.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against the discharge of the Commission's accounts because, in many areas, budget funds were not used frugally and efficiently in 2006.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for discharge to the President of the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006, and the report by Mr Pomés Ruiz recommending that Parliament vote for discharge.
in writing. - (PT) The discharge for the European Parliament's 2006 budget is tainted by suspicion, and all Members have been unacceptably tarred with this brush, because of the decision to classify as 'confidential' the internal audit report for 2006, which allegedly refers to irregularities in the use of the parliamentary assistance allowance.
A decision of this kind places all elected Members of the EP under suspicion, which we cannot accept.
in writing. - (FI) I could not vote in favour of point 65 in report by Mr Pomés Ruiz, because it does not define the notion of relatives more precisely.
If the text had spoken of prohibiting a 'family member' from being employed, point 65 would, I think, have been more defensible and acceptable.
in writing. - I am sorry to say that I voted against this report.
I could not support the reference to the Lisbon Treaty in paragraph 10, which takes account of the new budget procedure arising from the Treaty of Lisbon.
in writing. - All the amendments that the EPLP supported in plenary today on the discharge of the European Parliament's 2006 budget were aimed at increasing transparency in matters where Parliament is responsible for administering public money.
I voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the Council budget for the financial year 2006, based on the report by Mr Lundgren recommending that the European Parliament should grant discharge to the Secretary-General of the Council.
in writing. - (PT) The word 'transparency' is bandied about a great deal and many demands are placed on (some) Member States in this area at budgetary and economic policy level.
Although the European Parliament report voted on today does not take a tougher, critical line on the Council's stance, it does at least call for this decision to be reconsidered, as well as for more information, namely regarding the amounts used under the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP).
I voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the Court of Auditors budget for the financial year 2006, based on the report by Mr Lundgren recommending that the European Parliament should grant discharge to the Court of Auditors' Secretary-General.
I agree with my colleagues that Members of all EU institutions should be required to submit a declaration of financial interests, which should be accessible on the Internet via a public register.
in writing. - (PT) This explanation of vote merely serves to illustrate that one of the aspects analysed in the 2006 Court of Auditors' discharge was the shortage of staff, given the volume of work this EU institution has to deal with.
I voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) budget for the financial year 2006, based on the report by Mr Lundgren recommending that Parliament should grant discharge to the EESC's Secretary-General.
Finally, I am delighted at the increased independence and resources of the financial verification service.
I voted for discharge to the European Ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2006, based on the report by Mr Lundgren.
I voted for discharge to the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006, based on the report by Mr Lundgren recommending that Parliament should grant discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Training Foundation in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the Translation Centre for the bodies of the European Union in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
It is surprising to note the accumulated budget surplus of the Translation Centre of EUR 16.9 million in 2006 and that in 2007, the Centre should reimburse around EUR 9.3 million to its clients.
in writing. - (SK) Europe needs multilingualism in order to survive.
The first European Community Directive in 1958 refers to multilingualism.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in respect of the implementation of its budget for the Financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
The Centre must take the necessary measures, including in terms of financial management, to improve the commitment and payment procedures.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for discharge for the Director of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
I welcome the Monitoring Centre's desire to carry out an evaluation of its operations in 2007 and the fact that a management plan is expected for 2008 and 2009.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (formerly the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
The annual reports and accounts on the Agency's 2006 and 2007 work programme contain relatively little information on the budget implementation, financial information, risks, evaluation and auditing of the Agency, which needs to improve the quality of its information and publish its annual activity report on its website.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Agency for Reconstruction in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
I welcome the Agency's role in developing and consolidating stability in the Balkans region and in the sound management of the CARDS programme.
The Agency has entirely fulfilled its mandate and it can now wind down its activities; this is planned for the end of 2008 in order to entrust the management of assistance to Serbia, Kosovo, Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) to the Commission delegations in those countries.
in writing. - (PT) This agency was set up after NATO's attack on the former Yugoslavia and manages the EU's main 'assistance' programmes in the Balkans.
Perhaps the EP, is wrapped up in the enlargement of NATO and the EU, 'is convinced that, at the point where the Commission takes over the management of the new Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, (...), it should finally present to the Council a new mandate for the Agency, which should, as decided, finish its work in the Balkans by the end of 2008 and be converted into a truly European agency for external actions'.
In other words, the unacceptable transformation of this agency into yet another instrument supporting the EU's policy of interference in other regions of the world.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Environment Agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Medicines Agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Food Safety Authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Maritime Safety Agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
On the whole, they are set up to 'coordinate' or 'help' Member States in different areas, and the number of these agencies and bodies has gradually increased: with regard to the discharge process, there were 8 in the year 2000 and more than 20 in 2006!
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Aviation Safety Agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Railway Agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Executive Director of the European Network and Information Security Agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Director of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders (FRONTEX) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
Some irregularities regarding staff management were also observed, namely concerning recruitment criteria and procedures which were not in line with the general provisions of the Staff Regulations of officials of the EU institutions (as a matter of fact this is a recurrent situation in the budget discharge of various community agencies, in which several criticisms have been raised concerning non-compliance with the Staff Regulations).
Which leads me to say that in 2006 it was definitely a case of putting the cart before the horse...
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of discharge for the Administrative Director of EUROJUST in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my Austrian colleague Mr Hans-Peter Martin, which recommends to Parliament to give discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for discharge to the Director of the European Police College (CEPOL) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by Mr Martin recommending that Parliament should grant discharge.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for discharge to the Director of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by Mr Martin recommending that Parliament should grant discharge.
