Nigeria The next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on Nigeria.
author. - (DE) Mr President, quite honestly I think a debate about the developing situation in Zimbabwe would be more urgent than all three topics we are debating this week.
To an even greater extent than in the United States, where President Bush made unsuccessful attempts to introduce a ban in the Constitution on marriage relations between people of the same sex, attempts are being made in Nigeria to discourage homosexuality.
My political group is putting forward a resolution on Nigeria.
It should be noted that in its statement of 28 January Human Rights Watch stated that this bill was an expression of homophobia.
author. - (SV) Mr President, in spite of many problems, the situation has improved since the fall of the military dictatorship in 1999.
Instead of having to chase after events for the next 15 or 20 years and lament the penalties to which this law would give rise if it were applied to thousands of individuals - as has occurred on numerous occasions in Nigeria itself, for example with death penalties - we have the opportunity, as the European Parliament, to take action in advance.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I have come across many pieces of legislation I did not approve of in this House.
This is normal in political life.
In a country in which Chapter 42, section 214 of the Criminal Code stipulates that mere sexual relations between persons, adults, of the same sex are punishable by 14 years in prison, the Nigerian Justice Ministry now intends to go somewhat further and make same-sex marriages, and the performing of such marriages, punishable by 5 years in prison.
The Commission is prepared to actively participate, along with the Member States, in the political dialogue foreseen under Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement.
This political dialogue will fully address the specific issue concerning the Same-Sex Marriage Bill as well as the essential elements regarding human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance listed in Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates, that is, in a moment.
