rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, Madam Secretary of State, speaking as rapporteur for this House, I recommend to it that, tomorrow, the national railway networks should be not only opened up to cross-border passenger trains run by all railway companies, irrespective of their country of origin or of whether they are state-owned or private - which is what the Council envisages - but also that they should be opened up for the purposes of passenger traffic within the country at a later date.
By way of a concession, Madam Secretary of State, to the Council - which still has its own misgivings about opening up the networks to private passenger traffic at too early a juncture - the committee is now proposing 2017 as the date for networks to be opened up to domestic traffic.
It is also the intention that those states that acceded as recently as 1 May 2004 or later should be able to extend this deadline by another five years in order to give their railway companies more time to prepare themselves for the internal market and for the competition that it brings.
We ought really to agree that, for the Member States, ten or fifteen years really ought to be enough to reorganise their railway companies in such a way as to meet demand and the needs of their customers, for the public are entitled to efficient and good-value passenger transport within their own countries as much as anywhere else; after all, without that, the railway sector will be unable to compete against cars and aircraft and thereby have a future.
Apart from a few minor amendments, the Committee on Transport and Tourism agrees with the Council and the Commission that the Member States must be allowed not to open up - or to open up only partially - their networks if their being opened up would endanger regional and local passenger traffic; that is where we agree, for regional and local transport are of vital importance to the public, not least for environmental reasons.
I am very pleased to note from Annex II to the Common Position, that the Portuguese presidency took exactly the same view as Parliament on this, for, if one weighs up the demands of the internal market - which should have become a reality a long time ago - against the special interests of public passenger and regional transport, it becomes apparent that the special rules imposed to secure the latter's position already do enough to restrict the opening up of networks.
I would remind you of the celebrated White Paper on the European single market that the Commission published in 1985.
Finally, let me say that I do not believe that the Presidency of the Council will accept Parliament's proposals in toto, and so I appeal to it to set the conciliation procedure in motion without delay, if at all possible, as soon as February, so that we can get this wrapped up before the German presidency ends in the summer.
I would also say to Mr Jarzembowski, because we have always disagreed on this subject, that simply laying down dates for liberalisation is not sufficient to create a European internal market.
First of all, we are talking about a licence for the whole of the network and not simply for the international network, since we believe that all train drivers should be able to aspire to move on to international level and that there is little difference between driving a TGV, a high-speed train, within one of the Member States and driving one that crosses the border.
In other words, when a company spends a lot on training a driver and that driver leaves the company for another company within two years, we need minimum rules to oblige the company taking on that driver to partly repay the company that trained him.
Commissioner, I believe that the European Parliament's proposals are right.
Nevertheless, I believe that Parliament's position is the right one.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the purport of the reports that are here before us is to make European rail more attractive to its users.
There is, however, one important difference of opinion between the Council and Parliament: we cannot understand why all these rights will not apply to all railway passengers.
I should therefore like to ask the Council to abandon its position in this respect and to ensure that all railway passengers have the rights they deserve.
The German Presidency of the Council is just getting under way and already, with the upcoming vote on the proposals for the Third Railway Package, we have before us on the agenda one of the most important dossiers of this six months' Presidency in the field of transport.
Firstly, the committee now seeks to ensure - by means of amending Article 1 of the directive - that staff not working as train drivers but performing safety-related tasks are also required to undergo certification.
The Council's Common Position did take account of this issue.
Secondly, it is proposed in Amendment 23 that, if a train driver moves to a different undertaking, there should be statutory compensation for training costs.
There is a consensus between the Council and Parliament on this matter as far as content in concerned.
It was, however, particularly difficult to reach agreement on this point in the Council.
The Common Position, which we have reached with all the Member States through considerable effort, provides for the opening up of international markets for passenger transport, including cabotage in connection with international journeys, as of 2010, but initially without opening up the national networks.
I think I can say that the Third Railway Package is so important to all of us that all of us must surely have an interest in coming to an agreement.
The German Presidency of the Council will be pulling out all the stops to make it a success and to realise the integrated rail area that we desperately need.
Almost three years after the adoption of the initial proposals by the Commission, Parliament and the Council must reach a compromise on all of the texts, as Mrs Roth has just explained very well.
There is a general philosophy underpinning these proposals that will make it possible to Europeanise the railways.
I would now like to make a few comments on the three reports.
The Commission is pleased that the Council and Parliament have reached a consensus on the opening up of the market in international services with cabotage, which will take place in 2010, as the Commission proposed.
In 2004, the Commission was pleased to propose the opening up of the market in international services.
We are not, therefore, in any way opposed to the principle of opening up the market in domestic services, but we believe that, within the framework of this third rail package, there is the risk that a decision would be premature.
We would like to assess this issue in the light of a more detailed analysis and we would like to take account of other elements contained in the proposal on public service obligations for which Mr Meijer is rapporteur.
I would like, Mr Savary, to express a few reservations with regard to certain amendments relating to the funding of training.
You have proposed that a rail company employing a train driver whose training has been totally or partially funded by another rail company, which that driver has left voluntarily after less than five years' activity, should repay part of the cost of the training to the company that has provided it.
The first problem relates to the scope and its extension to domestic services.
Mrs Roth has just explained to us that that scope posed certain problems within the Council.
I would like to say, however, Mr Sterckx, that I believe that we must accept that it is impossible to distinguish the sections from the different slots, because otherwise users will never know what their rights are, as you have quite rightly pointed out.
The Commission will therefore support your amendments and will assist in reaching a compromise with the Council on this point.
Furthermore, an approach that leaves more freedom for the Member States for all rail services subject to public service contracts seems logical and should facilitate that compromise.
The other issue is civil liability in the event of accidents.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to extend a warm welcome to Mrs Roth as President-in-Office of the Council.
As the rapporteur and also the Commissioner have already explained, the European licence for train drivers on which we are to vote tomorrow represents an important step towards the opening-up of rail transport throughout Europe.
The licence for train drivers forms part of the third railway package, which also includes two other legislative procedures we consider important, namely the one on passenger compensation and the one on the opening-up of cross-border passenger transport from 2010.
However, this licence will only be a real success if, in the final reckoning, it also reduces bureaucracy - and we have set the course for this as well.
The European Railway Agency is to decide what form this second step should take on the basis of the experience acquired up to that date.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (ES) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many years ago we agreed to create a common European area characterised by free movement within its borders of persons, goods, capital and services, and we have unquestionably made progress over the years since then, but we still have a lot to do in order to make what we proposed a reality.
We share that concern and therefore, although we are going to vote in general for the Committee on Transport and Tourism's amendments, we are going to vote in favour of Amendment 37 so that in 2012, on the basis of two years of experience in the liberalisation of international services, the Commission will present us with a report analysing, five years in advance, the state of preparation of the opening up of the market in passenger services within the States.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Mr President, Mrs Merkel and Mr Barrot, I am extremely pleased that three of my colleagues, with whom I initially had the honour of participating in drafting the third rail package, have very successfully prepared the second reading.
If the European Union internal market exists, then it exists also in internal transport.
All trains - including high-speed trains such as the French TGV and the German ICE - should have a multi-purpose compartment to enable the carriage of sports equipment and bicycles on board.
National railway networks should be opened up for long-distance passenger transport, too, by 2017 at the latest - or 2022 in the case of the new Member States.
We know that the opening-up of the networks has meant a substantial increase in rail freight transport, but we also know that those Member States which have shut themselves off have recorded a decrease.
On 27 and 28 September 2005, at first reading, this Parliament missed an historic opportunity to retain and strengthen sound European coordination and high-standard services by going too far in its voting and by not going as far as the Commission suggested in the area of protecting passenger rights.
The European Union is sitting on the fence as long as it continues to assume that, on the basis of Article 5 of Directive 91/4401, railway companies must be run as trading companies and must, on this basis, seek to reduce costs as their main priority.
With regard to the Sterckx report, we support the wishes of the European consumer organisation in our Amendments 70 to 73.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, all this week we have been told that this is a bright new dawn, with Parliament having a new President and Members.
We therefore cannot support Amendments 26, 58, 59 or 69.
It will provide a tier of EU regulation on top of already adequate national regulation, while providing no benefit, as I see it, to the rail sector or to its users. (DE) Mr President, Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor and President of the Council, gave a brilliant speech in the House this morning.
It is a prejudice, however, and therefore incorrect.
It is important to us all, however, that we ultimately achieve a good result, and that European citizens then see that Europe does affect them, and that it is something worth fighting for. (NL) Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the Members of this House who have contributed from afar or from close by to the result we are discussing today.
At the same time, we must make sure that these exceptions are very clearly defined and thus prevent this regulation from becoming an empty shell.
It would have been preferable, as the Commissioner already said, to look at the issue of liberalisation in combination with the Meijer report, so that clear and uniform procedures could be put in place which would allow Member States or regions to offer sections of the network to one particular company in the framework of public service provision contracts.
Liberalisation is necessary, and not just of the 5% of passenger transport that crosses borders but also of national passenger transport.
Passenger rights must apply not only to cross-border, but also to national, transport.
In Denmark, train companies have taken the lead and have already adopted the proposals on passenger rights in the event of delays that we in Parliament have put forward - something, then, that obviously can be done. (PL) Mr President, in view of the time available I shall only refer to one issue.
I believe that the ideas contained in Mr Jarzembowski's report will contribute to the process of liberalisation of rail transport and further development in Europe. (FR) Mr President, as you know, for we Greens it is essential that we implement a genuine European transport policy leading to a modal transfer from the roads to rail.
Liberalisation is by no means the only way to Europeanise transport policies. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, we have now reached the debate on the second reading of the third package of measures dealing with the railways.
I believe that the outcome of the vote on this package will reflect similar concerns on the part of the new Member States.
Whatever the outcome, I believe that we will be returning again to this issue in the future. (NL) Mr President, in recent months, opinion on the subject of the third railway package has turned out to be anything but unanimous - in the Council and this House at any rate.
Since, moreover, it is important for existing agreements on time-limited rail services to be respected, Amendment 18 is, in my view, uncalled for.
I hope, although I have my doubts about the likelihood of it, that we will reach the right decision tomorrow. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the railway package is an interesting trilogy, and all trilogies contain an element of drama.
The first two proposals attracted a very broad consensus in this House.
The fact that we have introduced sanctions for this kind of transport must not result in its being neglected across the board for fear of sanctions being introduced in other fields, too.
This can be done within the framework of the Meijer report, before we express our opinion on this subject in general.
Not only train drivers, but other staff, too, must be covered.
We should not concern ourselves exclusively with passengers on cross-border services, but with passengers in general.
The realisation that it takes one person a 17 000 km rail journey to release a tonne of CO2 pollution into the atmosphere, but a journey of just 3 000 km by air, does lead one to reconsider one's position on the opening of rail markets.
Both the Council and Parliament have incorporated safeguard mechanisms for the smaller Member States.
I look forward to the conciliation procedure and hope that the Council Presidency will be very active and willing to compromise, and will bring the matter to a successful conclusion. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the distinction between international transport, and transport between Member States and national transport dates back to 1956, specifically to Article 70 of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, in other words the first piece of European transport legislation.
In short, ladies and gentlemen, are we really incapable of giving up an attitude that was effective 50 years ago but today, frankly, is endangering our whole strategy?
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for your very open and interesting comments on the railway package.
I firmly believe that the differences between the 27 countries must be taken into consideration, including when it comes to their enthusiasm for opening up access to the market.
