Madam President, like Mr Sumberg, I would like to say why we voted for this report.
The World Food Programme is feeding 20 to 25 million people who are at risk from malnutrition and death by the end of 2009 if we do not do this.
The basis of European security is NATO.
Certain parts of this Parliament are very anti-American.
This report reflects the real position of women in the Balkans region without differentiating countries, depending on their different status.
The report describes the change in the situation through change in legislation, the granting of more rights to women, the growth in governance and the participation of women in politics and management.
I am pleased that this resolution has received 558 votes.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - I congratulate my colleague on this Agreement with the Republic of Korea on co-operation on anti-competitive activities.
I therefore fully support David Martin's report recommending acceptance of the Cooperation agreement between the EU and South Korea in the matter of anti-competitive activity.
The agreement with Korea will contribute to the effective implementation of competition regulations by promoting cooperation between competition protection agencies and reducing the likelihood of conflicts.
Bearing in mind the growing importance of the partnership between the two countries, the addition of Korea to the other three partners with which the EU has agreements in the range of anti-competitive activity seems fully justified.
This agreement seeks to ensure 'mutual recognition of competition law between the European Community and South Korea' as 'the most efficient way to tackle anticompetitive behaviour', seeking to minimise 'the use of trade defence instruments between the two parties', like those already adopted with the United States (1991), Canada (1999) and Japan (2003).
However, the European Parliament is putting its focus on the consideration that the present agreement should be written 'in the context of the overall framework of existing agreements between the European Community and the Republic of Korea and those currently under negotiation, in particular the negotiations concerning a potential free trade agreement', namely, and as the rapporteur underlines, taking into account 'the problems that have been encountered by other bilateral and interregional trade negotiations'.
in writing. - I hope my report and the Commission proposal will provide significant benefits to both Korea and the EU.
I endorse the reasoning underlying the report and believe that this competition agreement is a more vital instrument than ever in today's climate, where trade, in particular with Asian countries, is increasing in quantity and importance.
I voted for this report because I believe that it is vitally important for us to establish trade links which comply with competition principles not only with Korea, but also with the other countries outside the EU.
in writing. - (LT) The multi-year herring stock management plan in the west of Scotland is welcomed.
As a matter of fact, the precedent was created by the multi-annual management agreement signed with Norway in 1997 concerning North Sea herring stock, which has produced satisfactory results.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of Mrs Grabowska's report, I have voted in favour of the proposal for a Council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations within the framework of renewed consultation.
in writing. - (LT) If this regulation is adopted, it will be easier for citizens to live.
In addition, the Regulation provides that when Member States pass a decision on maintenance obligations, such a decision will be binding in all Member States.
This regulation makes life easier for citizens of European Union Member States in terms of the procedure required for establishing maintenance obligations.
More specifically, as soon as the decision is announced in one Member State, this will have the same binding effect in all Member States.
Consequently, the regulation stipulates that as soon as the decision on maintenance obligations is announced in Member States, this will have the same binding effect in all Member States.
in writing. - (LT) Metrological rules of Member States are applied to many categories of measuring instruments and products.
This new version of the Directive includes amendments related to the regulatory procedure and verification; therefore the codified version of Directive 71/316/EEC should be replaced with the new version.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of Mr Mitchell's report, I have voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries.
I naturally voted in favour of the report.
As also pointed out in the report, the Commission made a bold decision with its proposal to allocate EUR 1 billion to the food crisis, and I believe that both the Commission and the Council should receive our full collaboration in order to adopt this important legislation.
in writing. - (SV) High food prices mainly impact those who are worst placed in the world.
in writing. - (HU) I agree with the rapporteur that the financial crisis is no reason for us to reduce our assistance to the starving people in the developing world.
I would note, of course, that within the European Union as well there are people who find themselves in a difficult situation because of soaring food prices.
Improving agricultural production in the developing world requires a more structural approach than a sum of 1 billion that has to be spent within three years.
The Member States could also do this directly.
in writing. - (PL) I voted for the adoption of Gay Mitchell's report.
Therefore I voted to support this proposal to take EUR 1 billion of unspent support for EU farmers and use it to assist struggling farmers in developing countries to buy essential items such as seeds and fertilisers.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats believe that these reports are a step along the way towards combating improper tax evasion more effectively.
With regard to the new Swedish VAT rules that entered into force on 1 January 2008, these reports will unfortunately involve a certain amount of additional administration for certain businesses, but we believe that the changes are justified and proportionate to the aim and have therefore decided to vote in favour.
On the basis of the report by my esteemed Spanish colleague, Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, I voted in favour of the proposal for a Council directive amending the 2006 Directive on the common system of value added tax to combat tax evasion connected with intra-Community transactions.
in writing. - (PT) In general we agree with the proposals of the rapporteur which aim to improve the document of the European Commission on the fight against tax evasion connected with intra-Community transactions.
It is true that VAT evasion affects not only the financing of Member States' budgets but also the overall balance of the European Union's own resources in so far as reductions in VAT own resources have to be compensated for by an increase in the gross national income of own resources.
in writing. - (DE) Every tax system is accompanied by tax evasion.
An agreed procedure between the EU Member States in which there is no fundamental change to the existing systems must be at the forefront.
For this reason, I have voted against this report.
I agree with the need to combat tax evasion connected with intra-Community transactions and believe that, in the context of the single European market, administrative cooperation between the Member States should be strengthened in this regard.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my esteemed Spanish colleague, Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, I voted in favour of the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 to combat tax evasion connected with intra-Community transactions.
National tax administrations must be motivated by the need to remedy fraud and help honest tax payers to fulfil their obligations.
in writing. - (PT) In this case as well we generally agree with the proposals of the rapporteur that aim to improve the document of the European Commission.
That is the case with the proposal that insists on the need for the European Commission to fully inform the European Parliament of the measures envisaged, in accordance with the Agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission on procedures for implementing Council Decision 1999/468/EC.
I also agree that the Member States and the Commission should periodically evaluate the application of this Regulation.
However, the proposal that the Commission should draw up a set of indicators with a view to ascertaining to what extent each Member State will cooperate with the Commission and the other Member States does not seem sufficiently clear to me, even though it is apparent that there are criticisms of the Court of Auditors relating to the lack of effective administrative cooperation in combating tax evasion in the area of VAT.
As part of the interest it must show in its wealth creation system, it is vital that the European Union give its support to SMEs.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the report.
We should therefore support every effort but must not forget that we still have a long way to go and we must honour our commitment.
The problem is that, today, this is all still in the realm of the theoretical.
It is the same institution, the Commission, which calls on the Member States to 'think about small businesses first', but which then introduces more opaque, incomprehensible legislation and administrative and regulatory restrictions.
in writing. - (PL) Improvement of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe and support for the European Charter for Small Enterprises is of tremendous importance for the efficient development of the European Union's economy and entrepreneurship, and I have therefore decided to support the resolution.
in writing. - (PL) I wish to express my support for the adoption of the Charter for Small Enterprises, intended to improve the situation of such enterprises in the EU.
We must also remember that such enterprises are very sensitive to intensified competition and to all financial and administrative problems.
I welcome the European Investment Bank's proposal for a new package, which allocates EUR 30 billion in loans to SMEs.
I feel certain that in the circumstances the Council will approve the Charter for Small Enterprises and will require Member States to implement its provisions.
We must ensure that, in the context of the current economic crisis, SMEs are still able to access adequate financing, especially at this time when banks are not lending to small businesses.
SMEs are the backbone of small economies in Europe, such as Northern Ireland.
We should be encouraging innovative entrepreneurs rather than placing obstacles in their way such as excessive red tape.
Another measure which is welcomed is the new package from the European Investment Bank amounting to EUR 30 billion, earmarked for loans to SMEs.
However, the substance of the proposal lies in the new dispensation for private European companies, which will allow a 'private European undertaking' to trade in all the Member States of the EU and circumvent the current obstacles of any social control.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the steps towards improving the environment for SMEs in Europe as they are fundamentally important to the European Union's economy, including Romania's.
Small and medium-sized enterprises provide more than 100 million jobs and are a key factor in economic growth.
I support the implementation of the new European Investment Bank package which will provide EUR 30 billion, earmarked for loans to SMEs.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on improving the environment for SMEs in Europe - Small Business Act.
in writing. - (PL) In today's vote, I supported the adoption of a resolution intended to improve the situation of Europe's small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Charter for Small Enterprises will contribute to the development of the Polish economy, as well as the European economy as a whole.
I agree with the principles according to which it is necessary to prevent irresponsible arms transfers by the strict application of the Code's criteria to both companies and national armed forces, and to prevent illegal arms trafficking by calling on all Member States that have not yet done so to transpose into their national legislation the 2003 EU common position on the control of arms brokering.
It is true that we need a solid legal base for this Code of Conduct that will allow us to look again at the current arms embargo against China.
There are still difficulties with Beijing, but they should not be bracketed on this issue between Burma and Zimbabwe.
in writing. - (PT) Within the framework of the current arms race and militarisation of international relations, in which the US, NATO and EU are playing a central role, any initiative that - even if in a limited and insufficient way - contributes to restricting arms exports will be a step in the right direction.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my Belgian fellow Member, Mr Staes, on the European Court of Auditors' special report No 8/2007 concerning administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax (VAT).
We believe that women should have equal opportunities in many of the areas identified in the report.
We also believe in women playing a full role in politics.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (PL) I have supported Mrs Gurmai's report describing the situation of women in the Balkans, because it raises vital issues which, regrettably, do not concern that region alone, and are not isolated cases.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote in favour of the report, as it deals with several very important issues relating to the situation of women in the Balkans.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Gurmai report on the situation of women in the Balkans, because it calls attention to the fact that, in spite of economic growth, the women of this part of Europe continue to face countless forms of discrimination.
I think that the various recommendations of this report, if put into practice, are a model for changing the current situation, promoting greater social protection and stimulating greater participation by the women of these countries.
The ideal of gender equality is one to which we, as Parliamentarians, must be fully committed and do all in our power to support.
in writing. - (PT) Although there are aspects of the general political view of the region to which we do not fully subscribe, we are in agreement with the importance given to the role of women and the need to guarantee equal rights and equal possibilities of participating in the labour market.
These are indispensable for women's economic independence, for national economic growth and for the fight against poverty, to which women are more vulnerable than men.
in writing. - The situation of women in the Balkan states needs to be addressed as accession talks continue to progress.
The political, economic, and social context of the situation of women in the Balkan states is lagging.
in writing. - (SV) We share the rapporteur's concern regarding the vulnerability of women in the Balkans.
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, and Kosovo under UNSCR 1244 are potential candidate countries.
For this reason, ensuring women's rights is a key requirement that these countries also need to meet.
Women who have been war victims are active participants in stabilisation and conflict resolution.
I voted for Zita Gurmai's report, which examines gender issues and the situation of women living in the Balkans.
I believe that the Commission will provide, among other things, on the basis of the recommendations in this report, pre-accession financial assistance to strengthen women's rights in the Balkans, in particular through NGOs and women's organisations.
in writing. - (SK) I have voted for this proposal, despite having reservations over the establishment of quotas.
Women must have equal access to the labour market, including access to senior positions, and they must be adequately rewarded for their work, at a comparable level to men.
in writing. - (PL) Balkan women have suffered a great deal in recent years.
This surplus in many regions of the European Union has had a direct impact on local fish populations and fisheries, so cormorants have become a European-scale problem.
Cormorants consume 400-600 grams of fish daily, and they catch more than 300 000 tonnes of fish in European waters in one year.
Given the great mobility of cormorants, as migratory birds, it appears that European-wide coordinated action or a management plan is the only way to achieve the objective, and this should in no way be seen as opposing the Directive of 1979 on the conservation of wild birds.
The cormorant feeds exclusively on fish and because of it large population (estimated at 1.8 million in Europe) its impact on local fish stocks, both wild and in aquaculture developments, is considerable.
The defence of the legitimate interest of fishermen and fish farmers in the economic use of fish stocks is another factor, no less important, which could be safeguarded by an approach of this sort ... (Explanation cut short under Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure) There is very reliable data showing that between 1970 and 1995 the European population of great cormorants overwintering on inland waters grew from less than 10 000 birds to roughly 400 000.
in writing. - I support this report, which suggests a coordinated action plan for the whole of Europe to abide by the directive on the conservation of wild birds whilst preserving fish specias as well as the interests of fishermen.
The impact of cormorants on fish populations has been confirmed in several cases by ichthyological studies, as well as by catch statistics within the EU.
The EP calls on the Commission to submit a cormorant population management plan in several stages to be coordinated at the European level, with the aim of reducing the increasing damage to fish populations, fisheries and aquaculture caused by cormorants.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the proposal to establish a European Cormorant Management Plan to minimise the increasing impact of cormorants on fish stocks, fishing and aquaculture.
The current situation derives from Directive 79/409/EEC, which has led to a disproportionate growth in the cormorant population.
