Transitional procedural guidelines on budgetary matters in view of the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty (debate) The next item is the report (Α7-0045/2009) by Mr Lamassoure, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on transitional procedural guidelines on budgetary matters in view of the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty [2009/2168(ΙΝΙ)].
Mr President, first of all, I should like to take this opportunity to thank President Barroso and Commissioner Šemeta for their decision to postpone the publication of the Commission's proposals on the future budgetary policy and on the updating of the financial perspective until the next six-month term.
Admittedly, the European Council and Parliament had agreed that this update would take place in 2008-2009, but that was four years ago, which is an eternity.
On the other hand, as the Treaty of Lisbon is due to come into force on 1 December, we must waste no time in adopting the transitional measures necessary to go from one treaty to another in the budgetary field.
The Swedish Presidency has proposed that the conciliation committee of 18 November be an opportunity for the three institutions to reach a political agreement on this subject.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Lamassoure for his report.
The entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty will modify the rules in the budget sector, with the European Parliament and the Council as codeciders on an equal footing on all expenditures.
We will need new rules to operate transfers and new rules to adopt amending budgets.
I propose that we start discussing these issues in the trialogue that we will have this afternoon.
It is possible that the Council will be tempted to try to act so as to favour itself for very urgent budget matters, such as the European External Action Service, but, clearly, the three institutions will be on an equal footing and, on Parliament's part, what there will be is a significant sense of responsibility.
The European Parliament will therefore have the power of codecision on the whole budget, and we will have a new, simplified budgetary procedure.
The treaty is now ready and approved, but that does not mean that we can go over to the new procedure straight away.
Secondly, before we can apply the new treaty in full, we need a new interinstitutional agreement.
Mr President, I, too, would like to start by saying how pleased I am that we now have the Treaty of Lisbon in place, a treaty which will, of course, give Parliament more power over the budget and change the way we adopt the EU's annual budget.
We are in a transitional phase, in which the budget for 2010 is being adopted under the old treaty but the implementation of the budget will be monitored and followed up under the new treaty.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I would like to state that we explicitly support the mandate for the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Alain Lamassoure.
We know that, in the transition from the applicability of the Treaty of Nice to the Treaty of Lisbon - which we were all awaiting and which we need in order to make Europe more democratic and transparent - we need clear rules.
The current number of amending budgets is excessive and does not even comply with the conditions set out in Article 37 of the Financial Regulation.
Billions are being spent on pet subjects of the left, such as the climate and development aid, whilst in the Netherlands, people are failing to receive treatment in care homes, the qualifying age for the state old-age pension (AOW) is being raised to 67 years and the police force is having to make cutbacks.
If this is the case, if it wishes to retain all control, I believe that the Council is making a big mistake, because what the Council needs is to have a strong Parliament that it can work alongside. (FI) Mr President, I support the well-argued proposals put forward by my colleague, Mrs Andreasen.
Mr Lamassoure, this may be the first time in your life that this has happened, but the President is giving you 15 minutes' speaking time, if you so desire, to close this debate.
I will grant Mrs Gardiazábal Rubial that the final agreement will perhaps not be founded on the simplicity that we would like and need, but we shall try in any case to ensure that it satisfies all of the institutions and that it provides the effectiveness, transparency and democratic character that the European Union sorely needs.
The European Commission's proposals for both these texts should be submitted as a package which is subject to joint negotiation with the Council.
