I would like to point out that the report covers only the 10 Member States that share land borders with Eastern neighbours and benefit from the Neighbourhood Policy.
These 10 countries have always had long-term trade, economic and cultural relations with their neighbours and shared a common history as well as the aspiration to achieve the objectives of development and consolidation of democracy and to increase security in Eastern and Central Europe.
With regard to the problems encountered by the new Member States in pursuing development aid policy, I would like to point out that: 1) The majority of the new Member States still have not defined their key priorities. 2) There is practically no strategic planning or control mechanism in the sphere of development cooperation policy. 3) The level of communication between the bodies implementing development aid policy and NGOs is insufficient. 4) The level of public initiative is too low, and there is a general lack of information on development cooperation available to the public throughout the EU.
Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that the last two EU enlargement rounds have created a new outlook towards development cooperation policy and its inextricable link to the European Neighbourhood Policy, the latter being the direct result of enlargement.
In 2007, aid from these 12 states totalled almost EUR 800 million.
The evolution of development policy over the years since the latest enlargement is proof in itself that the European Union can grow while at the same time becoming more meaningful.
In some countries work on the necessary legislation has been going on since 2004 and has still not been finalised.
on behalf of the PSE group. - (RO) The report that we are discussing today has, in my opinion, the merit of helping the new Member States of the European Union in defining new policies and new mechanisms designed to help countries which receive the attention of the European Union.
I am glad that this year, on 1 October, the European Socialist Day for Development will be held in Bucharest and I want to thank -here and now- my socialist colleagues for unanimously voting in favour of my proposal to organise this event in a new Member State of the European Union, namely Romania.
Today's report gives a comprehensive overview of the progress that the new donor countries in the European Union - that were the recipients of similar help a decade ago - have made in the field of development cooperation, pointing out both the shortcomings and the potential for further increase in the contribution to the EU development cooperation policy.
The rapporteur has been elected from a new donor country and her report will definitely be studied in great detail in those countries, including Estonia.
The European Union must give more support to Ukraine and Georgia and draw them into its sphere of influence.
Many ties that existed prior to 1989 were dissolved very quickly yet almost without a murmur.
There were also some very regrettable episodes.
I must say - perhaps taking issue with some of you - that aid to developing countries should not be confined to support for African countries, and I would remind you that the European Consensus of 2005 does not oblige us to direct our development aid to Africa.
As a Pole, I am proud that my country, a new Member State, allocates the same percentage of its GNP to aid for developing countries as Greece, which has been in the European Union for 27 years, Portugal, a Member State for 22 years, and Italy, a founder-member of the Community. (ET) I would like to thank the rapporteur for a timely and balanced report.
I have a couple of remarks to make on matters arising both from earlier debate on the report and from today's debate in this Chamber.
I therefore welcome paragraph 17 of the report, which states that the biggest challenges will be the increase in budgets and awareness-raising, especially among the general public.
For example, although the amount allocated to international development by Estonia in 2006 was 0.09% of GDP, the position today is that the amount should rise and we aim to achieve a figure of 0.17% of GDP by the year 2011, in accordance with the development cooperation programme adopted in 2006.
Mr President, it is amazing that 200 million children around the world can be described as child labourers.
I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee on Development for having voted unanimously in favour of it.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (RO) Although the draft resolution being debated has ambitious goals, I believe it will be hard to achieve a common policy in the near future, even from as a matter of principle.
Although we all form a large family, each EU Member State has its own priorities with respect to the countries or geographical regions to which regional development cooperation is currently provided; of , priorities which are motivated by economic, geopolitical, ethnic, historical interests etc., and it is unlikely that this pattern can change significantly.
