on behalf of the PPE-DE group. - (PL) Mr President, as the MEP for Gdańsk I feel I have a two-fold responsibility: firstly, for the fate of 3 000 jobs and an establishment which has symbolic status in Poland, and, secondly, for ensuring that together we comply with the principles of rational economy on which the European Community is based and which has brought prosperity to millions of Europe's inhabitants.
I was a witness to and a modest participant in the collective elation in August 1980 which gave birth to Solidarity, subsequently a movement of 10 million people.
I know that there are among the 3 000 employees of the present shipyard people who at that time risked their lives in the name of human dignity, human rights and other values enshrined among the standards of the European Union.
There are two significant facts here: the first is that it is the anniversary of the signing of the Szczecin agreement of 30 August 1980 and the Gdańsk agreement of 31 August 1980, and the second very significant fact is the present financial situation of the Gdańsk Shipyard.
I would like to thank Commissioner McCreevy for his statement today and to say that it is very important that we think of the European Union as a community.
It is 27 years ago that the Gdańsk Shipyard workers launched their fight against the Communist system and for bread and freedom.
Second, allow time to streamline the shipyard management, since the current management leaves much to be desired (so that it becomes profitable and 3 000 workers do not lose their jobs).
We would not now be here as 27 countries in a united Europe, a Europe free of the threat of nuclear war, had it not been for Solidarity which was born in the Gdańsk Shipyard.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, I welcome the fact that my colleagues in the Conference of Group Presidents have agreed to my proposal to ask the Commission to make a statement to us before any decision is taken on the future of the Gdansk shipyards.
In this instance, a restructuring plan is only seen as convincing if it provides for 1 000 workers to be laid off.
The enormous State aid that shipyards have received in the old Member States has bypassed the Gdańsk Shipyard.
