2009 budget guidelines - (sections I, II, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII et IX) (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Lewandowski on the 2009 budget guidelines - (sections I, II, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII and IX).
rapporteur. - (PL) Madam President, today, with the adoption and discussion of the guidelines, and tomorrow, with the vote on the Guidelines for 2009, we are taking the first step in a budget procedure that departs from the pattern of previous years in at least two ways.
Secondly, 2009 brings new challenges, which no-one is questioning.
As rapporteur I propose that this material be referred specifically to our Parliament's resolution of 25 October 2007 and to the unanimous decisions of the Praesidium and the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament.
on behalf of the PPE-DE group. - (RO) The budgetary orientations of our institution for the year 2009 represent the document based on which the budget of the European Parliament will be established this autumn.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Madam President, the European Parliament's budget for 2009 will be a very special one, as this Parliament will have codecision in almost all areas for the first time if the new Treaty enters into force in 2009.
As several in this House have remarked, 2009 is a special year.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, the guidelines for the 2009 budget procedure presented by the rapporteur, Mr Lewandowski, relate principally to the European Parliament, and have the potential to apply to other sections.
In view of the financial restrictions that have been adopted and the immensity of the new tasks linked to the Treaty of Lisbon, the elections to Parliament, the change in the Statute for Members and the proposed introduction of a statute for assistants, 2009 will be a very difficult year.
If we really want to make savings, perhaps it is not necessary to translate everything I have just said into Maltese, Latvian and Hungarian, because in eight months' time it will not be read by anybody and that would save EUR 17 million per year.
Parliament cannot outsource its operations in the same way, and it also has to finance support for the pan-European political parties out of its own budget. (SK) I agree with the view of the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets that when preparing the European Parliament's budget for 2009 the priority is to take into account Parliament's more extensive duties after ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
Parliament's communication budget and the actions planned for 2009 should therefore make sure that they interest and directly affect European citizens, who often feel that the European institutions are too detached.
Certainly, 2009 will bring significant changes to the European Parliament's work.
Thirdly and finally, 2009 is a year of European Parliament elections.
The problem that arose most often in this debate, apart from the specific challenges of 2009 and the need to manage European taxpayers' money frugally, was definitely the problem of Members' assistants.
I want to avoid the manner in which this problem is resolved becoming a battlefield for rival political groups, as all groups in our Parliament are united by an awareness of the need to resolve this problem in a way that removes the temptation to engage in corruption and the suspicions that surround this matter, while at the same time taking into account the heterogeneity of the 27 countries that make up the European Union.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 10 April 2008.
in writing. - (FR) I should first like to acknowledge the excellent work of my Polish colleague Mr Lewandowski on the 2009 budget guidelines of the 'other institutions', namely the European Parliament but also the Council, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the European Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor.
