Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (PL) Mr President, 2009 will bring many changes and challenges for the European Parliament.
Following the agreement between the European Parliament and the Council, SMEs will be able to participate in, and collaborate on, proposals for projects in the field of research and development.
I am pleased that Slovakia is among the 29 participating countries that have already expressed support for this programme.
It is paramount that Slovak SME entrepreneurs receive information on how to access funding for research and development under this programme, and that the research potential grows in Slovakia and in other underdeveloped regions of Europe.
It is also worth bearing in mind that the largest producers of these raw materials are located outside the European Union and that in comparison, the position of the Member States is very poor indeed.
Despite the need to progressively replace coal with renewable and more environmentally-friendly fuels, coal will remain a key source of energy and wealth for many regions of the European Union long into the future.
That is why I voted for Amendment 3. (CS) The European Parliament has once again proved itself to be a standard bearer for the protection of human rights.
The Olympic Committee is turning a blind eye by asserting that sports and human rights are unrelated.
We must put an end to the policy of separating economic issues from human rights in our dealings with China.
However, in his report today, Hannes Swoboda and the European Parliament have declared that irrespective of everything, in any event, the Commission must conclude the negotiations with Croatia by the end of 2009.
In the unredeemed lands of Istria and Dalmatia, the people of Fiume and Pola are demanding their rights, rights still being trampled underfoot more than 60 years after the end of the war.
These measures should become a priority for the European Union and should be compulsory for all our citizens.
The European Commission should prepare a pan-European awareness-raising campaign, providing information on preventive measures, early detection and diagnosis of cancer and its treatment.
The European Social Fund supports the Arturo Toscanini Foundation in Italy.
Mr President, I have voted in support of the Graça Moura report, as we spend too little time and money on supporting culture.
We focus on the economy, markets, labour and trade, but where would Europe be without painters, musicians and literary artists?
I have been following with awe the tough contest for the title of European Capital of Culture 2013 between the four Slovak candidates of Košice, Martin, Nitra and Prešov.
I also want to welcome and draw particular attention to paragraph 26, which was approved overwhelmingly, with 560 votes in favour in the roll-call vote.
The only way to counteract the effects of climate change is by limiting greenhouse gas emissions at regional and local level, in every sector of the economy and every area of our lives.
For example, Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council harmonises the rules for non-commercial movements of pet animals between Member States or after their entry or re-entry into the Community from third countries.
However, the Regulation provides for temporary derogations which some Member States can apply until 3 July 2008 (Article 6(1) and Article 16).
Article 6(3) provides for the possibility of extending this transitional period by way of legislation, based on a report to be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council by the Commission before 1 February 2007.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Ouský report in order that decisions taken regarding the movement of pets be taken only after full consideration of the scientific assessments.
I am pleased that Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 harmonises the rules for non-commercial movements of pet animals between Member States or after their entry or re-entry into the Community from third countries.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my Italian colleague, Luciana Sbarbati, which is part of the consultation procedure on the proposal for a Council decision establishing a European Migration Network.
In addition, there is not enough reliable, comparable and up-to-date information or analyses of the development of the legal and political situation of immigration and asylum at both national and EU level.
in writing. - British Conservatives abstained on this report since, whilst we disagree with its contents, the proposal acknowledges that the United Kingdom is exempt from the provisions.
However, the existing data is disparate and in many cases is not reliable, comparable or even up to date.
in writing. - (PL) The European Migration Network cannot continue operating without a clear legal basis.
As a member of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I fully support the report by Mrs Sbarbati proposing acceptance of the Commission's proposal and the general agreement reached in the Council on the subject.
in writing. - (PT) The European Parliament has today adopted a proposal for a Council decision establishing a European Migration Network.
The European Migration Network, which started as a pilot project in 2002, is based on a series of National Contact Points.
Its main objective is to provide 'objective, reliable and comparable information' on the migration and asylum situation in the various Member States.
There is no doubt that the measures aimed at improving knowledge of the true migration (and asylum) situation in the various EU countries will be positive.
in writing. - (FR) Cooperation between Member States and the exchange of information are certainly necessary when it comes to immigration policies.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed German colleague and friend Ingeborg Grässle, which is part of the consultation procedure on the draft Commission regulation (EC) amending Regulation (EC) No 1653/2004 on a standard financial regulation for the executive agencies pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) No 58/2003 laying down the statute for executive agencies to be entrusted with certain tasks in the management of Community programmes.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed German colleague and friend Ingeborg Grässle, which is part of the consultation procedure on the draft Commission regulation (EC) amending Regulation (EC) No 1653/2004 on a standard financial regulation for the executive agencies pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) No 58/2003 laying down the statute for executive agencies to be entrusted with certain tasks in the management of Community programmes.
I agree that we need to harmonise the discharge deadlines and clarify that the Community agencies that actually receive contributions from the budget under Article 185(1) of the general Financial Regulation are all the Community bodies that receive direct subsidies from the budget and all the other Community bodies that receive financial support from the budget.
This report makes some improvements to the text proposed by the European Commission, particularly by including in the financial regulation of these bodies the obligation to make available on their Internet sites information on the beneficiaries of funds deriving from their budgets.
However, despite also demanding more detailed information on the staff, budget and work carried out by these agencies, the Commission's proposal agrees to give these agencies greater room for manoeuvre in terms of transfers of appropriations which must be duly monitored.
in writing. - (EL) The debate on the exchange between Member States and the Commission of knowledge and experience about the management systems of each state will not provide special data enabling common management measures to be taken.
Research and debate will simply demonstrate that we cannot possibly expect any improvement in the economic situation of fishermen and, more broadly, the development of local communities reliant on fishing while we are pursuing a Common Fisheries Policy in order to merge fishing enterprises into business groups and, more generally, to pool capital.
in writing. - The idea of launching a discussion on the future of rights-based management systems within the common fisheries policy is one I support.
I voted in favour of Ms Attwooll's recommendations.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed German colleague Reimer Böge on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation, in the framework of the general budget of the European Union for 2008, of a sum of EUR 3 106 882 in commitment and payment appropriations under the auspices of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
This decision must take account of the fact that on 12 September 2007 Malta submitted an application for mobilisation of the Fund for 675 redundancies in the textile sector, specifically for workers made redundant by VF (Malta) Ltd and Bortex Clothing Ind.
The Maltese authorities requested a contribution of EUR 681 207 in order to cover a part of costs of the support measures, estimated at some EUR 1.36 million.
In addition, on 9 October 2007 Portugal submitted a request for mobilisation of the Fund for 1 546 redundancies in the automobile sector, specifically for workers made redundant by Opel in Azambuja, Alcoa Fujikura in Seixal and Johnson Controls in Portalegre.
The Portuguese authorities requested EUR 2 425 675 to cover a part of the costs of the support measures, estimated at some EUR 4.85 million.
in writing. - I welcome the first mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for the 2008 budgetary year.
in writing. - (PT) In 2006 I fought hard for the establishment of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
I believed that this was a way for the European Union to show its presence on the ground among those suffering from redundancies due to the closure of companies, as has happened in Portugal with Opel, Johnson and Alcoa Fujikara.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my excellent Polish colleague Janusz Lewandowski on the 2009 budget guidelines for the 'other sections', namely the European Parliament, but also the Council, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the European Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed Austrian colleague Paul Rübig, which is part of the codecision procedure on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the participation by the Community in a research and development programme aimed at supporting research and development performing SMEs undertaken by several Member States.
I welcome this initiative aimed at adding EUR 100 million over six years to the EUR 300 million of appropriations under the EUROSTARS Joint Programme for numerous Member States and other members of the European Economic Area for innovative SMEs in order to catch up in this area.
It is therefore clear that small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly those that are innovative, offer considerable hope for economic growth and social progress in our internal market.
The EU's creative potential must be supported and boosted so as to facilitate innovation in our internal market, without, however, running the risk in the near future of facing charges related to intellectual property rights which could be claimed by non-European countries.
EU cofinancing of the Eurostars programme in favour of SMEs therefore constitutes an essential step towards ensuring that the EU Member States remain competitive in the medium and long term.
The proposal will only benefit the most powerful and skilled medium-sized enterprises, in other words those with more than 250 workers, so that over 80% of European enterprises, mainly composed of micro and small enterprises, will be excluded.
As Portugal is one of the European countries where there is a dramatic lack of investment in R&amp;D in enterprises, we feel that if the Eurostars programme were to come to our country its effects would be totally irrelevant and residual.
The plan to inject EUR 400 million into encouraging such SMEs to conduct market-orientated research in transnational projects should be supported and I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (FR) I want to express my support for the Rübig report, which seeks to increase the number of SMEs that are eligible for support for their R&amp;D projects under the Eurostars research and development programme implemented by several Member States and associate countries.
in writing. - (PT) I support the content of this report as I consider that its proposals are intended to encourage research and development in SMEs, which represent over 99% of all enterprises in Europe and which employ over 60% of the working population.
This creation of value must benefit not only the enterprises where this is developed, but also the whole business fabric, both upstream and downstream.
in writing. - (SK) By voting for Paul Rübig's report, the European Parliament is sending a clear signal to small and medium-sized enterprises in the Member States.
The Eurostars programme is a programme for researching and developing new products and services at European Union level.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council decision on the multiannual technical guidelines for the research programme of the Research Fund for Coal and Steel - C6-0248/2007 -.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this report and I think it is important that we take the opportunity to look in more detail at the use of coal as part of our energy needs.
We need to find more research money to make coal more environmentally friendly and more economically competitive.
in writing. - Both coal and steel have been very important industries to communities in the south-east of England, especially in Kent.
in writing. - (PT) According to information provided by the Commission, 40% of the total EU fleet in terms of vessel tonnage operate on the high seas or in the waters of third countries.
in writing. - (PT) At the moment, authorisations for fishing activities to be granted to Community fishing vessels or third country vessels are managed through various bilateral agreements or Regional Fisheries Management Organisations.
Among many important aspects that deserve comment or criticism, we would highlight that, despite this report clarifying certain aspects of the proposal for a regulation, such as regarding as serious infringements only those infringements which have been effectively confirmed as such in accordance with the relevant national legislation - which we regard as positive - it still does not safeguard the sovereignty of each Member State in terms of the management of fishing activities in their EEZs (Exclusive Economic Zones), with which we disagree.
in writing. - I voted against the Morillon report, because a number of amendments which I co-signed were voted down.
However, for as long as we have a common policy, the principle of relative stability must remain inviolable and all of Europe's fishing communities must be assured that their historic fishing rights will remain their own.
The inclusion of agreements that fall under Article 63 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea would produce great practical difficulties for the Scottish fishing industry.
My vote reflected these concerns.
in writing. - On behalf of the European Parliamentary Labour Party, I am writing to explain why we tabled and supported amendments 20-23 on the Morillon report, and, when the amendments, fell, voted against the amended report and legislative resolution.
It is important to maintain the distinction between agreements that are covered by article 63 rather than 62 of UNCLOS.
Amendment 23 deletes the power given to the Commission to re-allocate fishing opportunities as proposed in Article 13, preserving the principle of relative stability and historic fishing rights in a context of responsible fishing.
It shows that the European Parliament is in favour of the European Commission reallocating fishing quotas, which would result in a free-for-all in the North Sea.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats support the European Parliament's wish in 2008, the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, to invite a number of the world's religious leaders for a dialogue with MEPs.
in writing. - The original compromise resolution was in my opinion not entirely balanced.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption of a joint resolution by all the political groups on Tibet.
The Chinese Government must not misuse the 2008 Olympic Games by arresting dissidents, journalists and human rights activists.
in writing. - (SV) The Olympic torch continues its journey round the globe and demonstrations all over the world have shown what people feel about this summer's Olympic Games.
It is a question in which many are interested, and it is important that the Member States be left to decide for themselves whether to participate in or boycott the Olympic Games in China.
The fight for human rights is crucial and should be supported, but the work must take place through the UN in order to acquire the necessary legitimacy.
Unfortunately the European Parliament is exploiting the current situation in Tibet in order to advance its foreign policy positions.
in writing. - (PT) While expressing our sympathy for the victims, our desire that the conflicts should be peacefully resolved and our principles of the defence of democracy, human rights and international law, we feel that once again a resolution on the situation in Tibet contains elements that do not strictly correspond to the situation as it is actually developing.
in writing. - (FR) Given the gravity of the situation in Tibet, the European Parliament could stay silent no longer.
The violence that has taken place in the streets of Lhasa and Dharamsala and the censorship of foreign media are intolerable and our institution must, together with the international community, use all of its influence to ensure that it stops and that China respects its international commitments in the field of human rights and minorities.
Through my vote I also wished to express my solidarity with the people of Tibet, most of whom are not demanding independence but greater political autonomy and respect for their cultural and linguistic heritage.
The Beijing Olympics are a prime opportunity to push for progress on issues such as human rights and media freedoms in China.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (DE) It was entirely predictable that China would react to demonstrations by deploying the military and the police.
A boycott of the Olympic Games, in whatever form, would in all probability simply be viewed as an insult by the Chinese majority population and would certainly not improve - and, in the worst case scenario, might actually exacerbate - the situation of minorities in that country.
It is lenient with respect to human rights and hypocritical, because it is forceful in proposing political solutions that do not take into account the realities in China.
Through this resolution, the EU is losing its credibility, promoting in reality, behind its statements of support for human rights, a dangerous agenda of "political autonomy" and independence for Tibet, in clear contradiction to the "One-China policy" principle.
in writing. - (PL) I was part of the delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs that visited Zagreb at the beginning of this year.
in writing. - (FR) Although I voted in favour of the progress report on Croatia's potential accession, I must stress that no future accessions can take place in the near future.
The Union of 27 must firstly organise itself on the basis of the Lisbon Treaty.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan considers that the enlargement of the EU is a fundamental aspect of the work to achieve peace and stability in Europe.
We have therefore voted in favour of the report.
This question is of course important in itself, but it falls outside the powers of the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) It will be said that the effects of the recent NATO Summit in Bucharest made themselves felt in the vote of this House today.
in writing. - (PT) We voted in favour of this motion for a resolution given the current situation and the estimates of the International Agency for Research on Cancer.
In 2006 there were nearly 2.3 million new cancer cases and over 1 million cancer deaths within the EU.
The EU has an important role to play in coordinating the fight against a disease which one in three Europeans will be diagnosed with in the course of their lifetimes.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of adoption of the resolution on combating cancer as diseases of this type wreak havoc the world over, including the countries of the European Union and my home country, Poland.
in writing. - (IT) The Sixth Community Environment Action Programme, which laid the foundations for Europe's policy on climate, biodiversity, the environment, health and natural resources, has been very successful.
The cut in funding for Natura 2000 and the LIFE+ programme, moreover, is giving great cause for concern to small local authorities, which will suffer a corresponding reduction in their scope for action as regards effective environmental policies to protect their own area.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Myller report on the mid-term review of the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme, given the importance of achieving the objectives thus defined, particularly with regard to the thematic strategies, protection of biodiversity and enforcement of Community legislation, and not forgetting issues such as ecological taxation or the problem of environmentally harmful subsidies.
in writing. - (PT) This report stems from an assessment that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety requested in order to determine how well the European Union has so far honoured its commitments under the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme, which was approved in 2002 and runs until 2012.
However, despite having generally voted in favour of the report, we disagree with some of its points.
in writing. - I welcome the Myller report on the mid-term review of the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report by my Finnish colleague in the Socialist Group Riitta Myller.
The implementation of the vital measures to combat climate change is hugely delayed.
By voting in favour of this text, I am joining with the majority of Parliament to urge the European Commission and the Member States to make a crucial final effort.
in writing. - (SV) We voted for the amendment which calls upon the Commission and the Member States to refrain from blocking access to the Internet.
in writing. - (FR) The report by Guy Bono on cultural industries in Europe reaffirms the importance of the cultural dimension in the implementation of the Lisbon objectives.
It underlines the potential of cultural industries as regards employment and growth and the need to strengthen EU support and action in this sector.
in writing. - (PT) We are well aware of the importance of culture and its dissemination in terms of cultural diversity and the rights of artists and people in every EU Member State.
in writing. - (PL) The contribution that culture makes to economic growth and its impact on employment was confirmed as a result of research published by the European Commission at the end of 2006.
This research showed that in 2003 the cultural sector contributed around 2.6% of the European Union's GDP and that more than 5 million individuals were working in the sector.
Increased awareness of culture's economic dimension and of its role in job creation is gradually spreading.
There is greater understanding, too, of culture's part in rural and urban development.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan considers that cultural matters in general fall under the political responsibility of the Member States.
We have therefore voted against this report in its entirety.
in writing. - Along with the majority of my group, I supported both parts of this amendment.
Forced removal of a customer's Internet connection, without judicial oversight, is not the right solution to combating piracy.
Furthermore, Internet connections are often not personal.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Bono report which recognises the huge importance of cultural industries in Europe.
in writing. - (EL) The commercialisation of culture masquerades as supposed respect for diversity.
in writing. - (SV) The report on cultural industries in Europe opens with a frightening paragraph in the spirit of EU nationalism on the role of culture in the development of the European project.
in writing. - (SV) In the European Parliament we have a name for reports which contain endless political wish lists, regardless whether we have powers in the field or not - they are called Christmas trees.
Yet there was an important bright spot in Christofer Fjellner's excellent Amendment 1, which stated a clear political position pointing out that attempts to deny Internet access to individuals who illegally copy material online should not be recommended.
Since at least March 2005, Mr Graça Moura has stressed that the Lisbon Strategy can never fully achieve its fundamental aims unless culture is treated as one of its essential dimensions.
This is because this assertion of identity is not just intended to assert a 'European' cultural identity, but to guarantee resistance to the pressure exerted by the dominant cultural industries of the US (defence of linguistic and cultural diversity; consideration of cultural industries as a 'protected space with regard to trade rules'; finding that the 'EU's trade balance in cultural goods and services is unfavourable').
Similarly, my party is committed to a culturally cosmopolitan Scotland and in government is taking steps to enhance Scotland's rich cultural tapestry, be that in our own linguistic diversity or our country's ability to take key decisions in relation to broadcasting.
in writing. - (PL) I supported the report on the European agenda for culture in a globalising world, as it emphasises that the Union's cultural policy focuses on European integration, whilst respecting the national and regional diversity of Member States.
The Community may only act in the area of cultural policy when its resources supplement and support the actions of individual countries, but do not replace them.
in writing. - (DE) Europe's cultural heritage is one of our great treasures which must be preserved.
It is important to recognise the role played by local and regional authorities in promoting culture and to ensure that they are more involved in the implementation of the EU's cultural agenda.
in writing. - (SV) The culture reports produced by Parliament are often difficult to deal with.
It was therefore in part a question of principle which led to my decision to vote against the report.
in writing. - The European Parliamentary Labour Party is in favour of education in schools about the history of the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Commission Green Paper on 'Adapting to climate change in Europe - options for EU action' as I share the belief that adaptation measures constitute a guarantee against the negative and unavoidable effects of climate change.
in writing. - (PT) It is well known that, according to the contribution of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, nearly all European regions are expected to be negatively affected by future impacts of climate change.
However, we disagree with other points, such as maintaining emissions trading.
The financing of such actions should also reflect this.
