Food distribution to the most deprived persons in the Community (amendment of the Single CMO Regulation) (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Sierkierski, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on food distribution to the most deprived persons in the Community - C6-0353/2008 -.
We support the proposal of the European Commission to increase the budget by two thirds, that is from EUR 305 million to nearly EUR 500 million annually, and to extend the range of products available under the programme.
What is more, in some of these countries disparities in income and living standards are growing all the time.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, before going into the content of this proposal, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Siekierski, and the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their work on this report.
There are more people than we realise for whom the lack of adequate food is a daily concern: 43 million Europeans cannot afford a meal with meat, chicken or fish every second day.
This number has already reached 80 million, in other words 16% of the world population.
Thus, in 2006, for example, it was possible to provide support to around 13 million people from 15 Member States by means of various aid measures.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to do is to congratulate the rapporteur, with whom we have very similar views as regards this programme, and secondly to congratulate everyone involved, because in such a time of economic crisis, it is fundamental to maintain a programme like this, with obvious positive social effects.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, like the rapporteur, are against this programme being cofinanced by the European Union and its Member States, since that would mean discrimination between states according to their wealth, which could then lead to a situation whereby the programme could not be put into practice in the most disadvantaged countries.
I would therefore also like to make it clear at the outset that it was not easy to find a common line within our Group.
There are many such people in the old EU countries and many more in the new.
Mr Siekierski's excellent report deals with how to distribute food to those most in need.
As the rapporteur has written, in 2006 in the EU-25 alone 43 million people were undernourished and 79 million were threatened with poverty, which is more than 20% of the total population of the EU.
The sustainable European Model of Agriculture of 1997 is a propaganda myth.
We have thus been able to create 80 million poor people and 43 million starving Europeans, a figure that includes the elderly, who may die quicker and reduce public spending as a result, meaning that the Maastricht criteria can be met more effectively.
In France alone, 80 million meals are served each year by the charitable organisation Restos du Cœur.
This means that, since 1962, we have been feeding our herds of cattle imported oilseeds and, from 2010, we shall be feeding our poor imports, too.
In the explanatory statement it is stated that in Germany alone 9 million people face the threat of poverty.
However, I would like to stress that faced with the current financial and economic crisis, support for the Community's most deprived residents takes on a new - social policy - dimension.
In 2006 in the European Union 13 million residents received food aid.
Mr Siekierski's report proposes leaving the food aid programme funding procedures currently in force, only allocating funds from the EU Budget, and disapproving the European Commission's proposal to fund the programmes from the EU and Member State budgets.
Funding from the EU Budget meanwhile, as has been the case since 1987, would be effective support for poorer co-citizens, which would show true solidarity. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, finally people are realising that with the new agricultural policy the storehouses are empty and, what is more, all funds have been transferred to direct aid and now we are resorting to the budget to feed the hungry.
Perhaps if we had used modulation to cream a bit more from those well-hidden persons who receive more than EUR 300 000 a year in direct aid, then today there would be more resources for our most deprived citizens.
Commissioner, can you speak to the Commissioner for fisheries on the extension of this scheme to include fish? (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wholeheartedly endorse the Siekierski report on a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions as regards food distribution to the most deprived persons in the Community.
I believe that the food distribution programme for the most deprived should continue to represent a significant element of the common agricultural policy, precisely because the CAP works by stabilising prices and thus protecting those on lower incomes from price fluctuations.
The question that many Member States and the Commission are asking is: why are we using the CAP to finance social policy?
Now, as a result of the crisis and an increase in the number of inhabitants, the problem has grown significantly and the number of people in need of direct support in 2009 will definitely exceed 25 million.
In 2006 alone, 13 million people from 15 Member States benefitted from aid measures within this programme - valuable help that should be retained.
Here, Commissioner, it is definitely a matter of social policy and not agricultural policy.
There must be no hunger or want: that is something that all of the speakers this morning have once again clearly emphasised.
As we all know, the Community's intervention stocks have been used to provide food aid to those most in need for more than 20 years.
Finally, I would like to point out that the European Commission still has time to use the interventions wherever they may be necessary or possible, and that more than one farming sector would appreciate it.
I hope that Amendments 17, 18 and 19 will remove this flaw.
Member States have made huge advances in improving the quality of life of their inhabitants.
It is estimated that 43 million EU citizens are at risk of malnutrition - that is a shocking figure.
I understand that one may have doubts of a legal, economic or political nature, but I would like to know what alternative there would be to the programme, especially because the programme of food distribution also has a beneficial effect on the agricultural market, which is more stable thanks to the programme.
The first has to do with co-financing: I agree with the report, but I would like Mrs Fischer Boel to consider the fact that she is asking for co-financing from poorer Member States, those on tighter budgets, just where the need for food is the greatest.
We all know that the measures adopted in 2008 and the allocated budget have been insufficient.
In new Member States, such as Romania, the programme's administration must obviously be improved.
Finally, I would like to thank Mr Sikierski and congratulate him on the proposals which he has made. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost this proposal - from both the rapporteur and the Commission - is an important pact to provide funding to mitigate the impact of spiralling food prices in the Community, which is putting an increasing number of people in difficulty and making the supply of food aid more costly.
Indeed, the measure we are about to implement has always inspired broad consensus, so much so that in 2006 13 million people, and 15 countries in 2008, actually 19 countries, I think that from this point of view ... (The President cut off the speaker). (PL) Mr President, in this debate I would like to draw attention to three issues.
I support, therefore, continuation of the programme of free food distribution among the most deprived people, for which the EU will set aside nearly EUR 500 million in 2009, which will include around EUR 100 million for my country, Poland.
It is estimated that 43 million people in the EU are at risk of food poverty, a figure that has risen continuously in recent years.
The rising prices that have been seen for some time on a wide range of goods makes it more expensive to provide food aid, which makes the support provided by the European programme even more urgent.
According to official statistics around 80 million Europeans live below the poverty line.
