Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system - Investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector - The liability of carriers of passengers by sea in the event of an accident - Port State control (recast) - Ship inspection and survey organisations (Directive recast) - Ship inspection and survey organisations (Regulation recast) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position (05719/3/2008 - C6-0225/2008 - for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2002/59/EC establishing a Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system (Rapporteur: Dirk Sterckx), the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position (05721/5/2008 - C6-0226/2008 - for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the fundamental principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and amending Directives 1999/35/EC and 2002/59/EC (Rapporteur: Jaromír Kohlíček), the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position (06389/2/2008 - C6-0227/2008 - for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea in the event of accidents (Rapporteur: Paolo Costa), the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position (05722/3/2008 - C6-0224/2008 - for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on port State control (recast) (Rapporteur: Dominique Vlasto), the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position (05724/2/2008 - C6-0222/2008 - for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules and standards for ship inspection and survey organisations and for the relevant activities of maritime administrations (recast) (Rapporteur: Luis de Grandes Pascual), and the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position (05726/2/2008 - C6-0223/2008 - for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules and standards for ship inspection and survey organisations (recast) (Rapporteur: Luis de Grandes Pascual).
President-in-Office, I should like to express my appreciation for the work that we - Parliament and the Council - have managed to do together in connection with my report, and I wish to encourage Parliament and the Council to continue in that vein.
I believe that on these issues we can find an agreement very easily; we can find a way to respond to those points that still remain and close the dossier.
Personally speaking, and as regards Parliament, I can assure you that in any case we will work every day, at all times, from now until 31 December this year, to ensure that the dossier can be closed under this presidency and that it can be closed in the best way possible for all those who are watching us.
I am not particularly concerned for my report on port state control because I know that at the end of our informal trialogue many problems were resolved.
The Council wants more. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Mr Bussereau, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are returning once again to the debate that we brought to a close at first reading a year and a half ago.
However, I regret that our pleasure is not complete or as we had hoped, as despite the fact that we have all learned lessons from the past, with the tragic examples of the Erika and Prestige disasters, which are still very recent in our eyes, and despite the need to act now and not wait for the consensus that always follows disasters, the attitude of the Council has unfortunately prevented us from being able to bring the matter to a close today with the adoption of the eight proposals that make up 'the third package' on maritime safety.
rapporteur. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in all sectors of transport there has long been careful investigation of the causes of serious transport accidents.
The Council can also have no qualms about accepting many of the demands expressed by Parliament in its resolution of 27 April 2004.
You know this item was put on the agenda by the Presidency at the informal meeting in La Rochelle, to which I had invited the European Parliament representatives Mr Costa and Mr Savary, who were kind enough to attend.
You know we are currently continuing with the technical aspects of the work so the Transport Council can look at it at its next meeting, planned for 9 October.
For this reason, in parallel with the work going on in the Council on the last two texts, the Presidency is still happy to maintain informal contact with each of the rapporteurs on the first six texts in order to reach agreement on the content.
I particularly wanted to share this analysis with you, and I will tell the Council about it at its meeting on 9 October, when we will be looking at the last two texts.
I think we have very nearly reached a final agreement, something we are all longing for.
Mr President, Mr Bussereau, ladies and gentlemen, how could I not share the concerns and aims that have emerged from the outset of the debate on this maritime package?
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am pleased to note the common ground - there is actually a great deal - that has emerged in the debate so far.
I therefore hope that you will make progress in the two dossiers that are still unresolved at the next Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council meeting on 9 November.
In this respect, I should like to encourage the President-in-Office effectively to win the majority over on 9 October.
