The G4's way of tackling the banking and financial crisis in 2008 was the opposite of respect for the aforementioned method, which Mr Barroso called for yesterday afternoon.
Southern Italy should be treated with the same dignity as other places in Europe and, now that it is experiencing difficulties, Europe must intervene as energetically as when it regularised 150 million citizens from the East, who became EU citizens.
That operation came at a price, and if, today, a worker from Gdańsk earns 28 times more than he earned before, he also owes it to the economic effort of Italy and of southern Italy. (The speaker continued in Neapolitan) Mr President, time has, perhaps, habituated us to the hollowness of the ritual that we have just carried out.
I have no personal problems with José Manuel Barroso.
However, I object to the creation of European Union bodies that would exercise power over Member States in areas that are wider than necessary to deal with this problem.
I draw attention to paragraphs 3, 7 and 8 of the joint motion for a resolution.
The Commission, under the leadership of President Barroso, in partnership with the European Parliament and the Council, will help to cultivate a prosperous, sustainable and socially advanced European Union.
He did not measure up to the task when the financial, economic and social crisis occurred.
If we want to save our European social model, we need a much more ambitious social agenda.
I am pleased to say that, as a Portuguese and a Member of the European Parliament, I voted in favour of the re-election of José Manuel Durão Barroso as President of the European Commission.
It is even prouder to see the value of his work during his first mandate, from 2004 to 2009.
Like my friends representing the national movements in Europe, I am one of the 219 MEPs who voted against Mr Barroso.
The criticisms directed at the outgoing President are mistaken about an essential fact, namely that the Commission is able to make proposals and that it is the Member States that lay them down.
Like 381 of my fellow Members, I supported Mr Barroso's appointment as head of the Commission.
So yes, we will expect him to keep his promises, such as combating climate change and discrimination, and the urgent concerted action in the face of the economic and social crisis.
I voted for the European Parliament resolution of 16 September 2009 on the forest fires of summer 2009.
Immense damage has been caused in terms of loss of human life (11 people have died just this summer), reduced economic activity and environmental degradation, particularly through an increase in the rate of desertification, in that some 400 000 hectares of European forests have disappeared every year over the last decade.
Rather than being a problem for one country or another, this issue and its serious consequences have now become cross-border in nature and clearly deserve a response at European level.
The European Union should repay this friendship and thus support the future of rural areas.
The reason why I voted in favour is linked to the need for effective solidarity and the immediate mobilisation of financial resources, so as to be able, with all due urgency, to tackle the socially and environmentally tragic situation that has befallen the areas and communities affected by this summer's fires.
I believe, however, that this possible and desirable cooperation among Member States in fighting forest fires should not be used to pave the way for removing important aspects of Member States' individual sovereignty, namely in terms of civil protection and measures for controlling and intervening in their own territory.
Equally, we need - and this is also the appeal we have made to the Commission - a strategy which allows us to conserve the rich ecosystems in our natural parks, be it the Bauges, Ardèche or Lubéron, with the whole undertaking relying on funding designed for preventive measures and actions to re-establish the damaged ecosystem.
That is why I had to vote against my group's position today with regard to Amendment 5 and, to be perfectly honest, that position puzzles me greatly.
In Greece, 130 000 olive trees were destroyed by the fires, as well as many hectares of vines, cattle, beekeeping holdings, storehouses, stables and a large number of greenhouses and houses.
In Spain, 95 769 hectares have been burnt by forest fires, causing 11 deaths and estimated losses of EUR 395 million.
Unfortunately, the summer of 2009 was marked by devastating forest fires in southern Europe, which caused huge material and ecological damage.
It was therefore important in this motion for a resolution to call on the Member States to revise or amend these registers.
That is why I voted for the joint motion for a resolution on the forest fires in the summer of 2009.
Even if the European Union fares somewhat better than other regions of the world with the creation of a strengthened civil protection mechanism and the financial godsend represented by the Solidarity Fund, more than 600 000 hectares are destroyed each year.
Firstly, Mr Barnier's report of 2006 on a European civil protection force must be implemented in full.
I voted in favour of the resolution on forest fires.
So far this year, over 200 000 hectares of forest have been destroyed by fire in the European Union.
In April 2009, the number of fires was the highest in five years.
This would be a financial and organisational completion of the actions undertaken in the Member States.
in writing. - Today's debate on forest fires in welcomed.
