rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, the report that we are discussing is in fact only a report on a report, namely that which was drawn up by the Commission on the motor car of the future.
However, on 19 December the European Commission adopted a proposal relating to future permitted CO2 emissions from passenger cars.
I would like to say something about this at a later point, for the CARS 21 report also covers many aspects that have nothing whatsoever to do with CO2 emissions.
The industry is one of the cornerstones of Europe's economy and is also a key factor for European competitiveness.
CARS 21 stands for Competitive Automotive Regulatory System for the 21st Century.
This is a Communication from the Commission, which in 2005 set up the CARS 21 High Level Group in order to draw up proposals for a future regulatory framework for the EU automotive industry.
We are developing a climate-protection policy in many other areas and we need it here too, which means we need to adjust and adapt.
If Europe is to strengthen its position in this market, both the Member States and the European Union will have to invest far more in vehicle research, and not just in developing alternative drive systems but in other areas too, such as energy storage.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the significance of CARS 21 extends far beyond the automotive sector.
I am very proud to say that we have been successful in this.
The European car industry is not opposed to the ambitious environmental targets that the European Commission has put forward in its proposal.
The next stage in limiting CO2 emissions from private motor cars - with no ifs, ands or buts - will be to set a European average of 120 grams per kilometre.
I do not live in France but I know that in France there are people who live in large castles and who need a lot of energy to heat these buildings.
However, we also focused attention on other countries such as India and the ASEAN states.
reporter of the opinion of the Employment and Social Committee. ? (LT) I congratulate Mr Jorgo Chatzimarkakis for preparing this report.
This makes 7 percent of all the people working in the industrial sector of the Community.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to add to the debate by introducing two figures, so that we all know what we are talking about.
There are now 700 million cars in the world at a time when oil prices are at 100 dollars.
If this Parliament is to do anything when it comes to the report on the legislation then it should produce a proposal on where we need to be by 2020.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - Mr President, I want to start my speech by agreeing for once with Mr Turmes.
One of the things that we ask from the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection is for this Parliament to take an initiative in getting other national parliamentarians together in this House to talk in the framework of CARS 21 about how they, as national and local politicians, are going to contribute to these overall goals of achieving a competitive car industry with the highest possible technology and preserving and developing jobs and employment, while achieving the goals that we all want to meet in terms of science, safety and environmental improvements. (Applause) draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to include a few suggestions in the opinion on A Competitive Automotive Regulatory Framework in the 21st Century, given its high strategic value for growth and jobs in the Union, but also in view of the need to do more, by adapting vehicles and infrastructure and applying technological innovation, to make European roads safer.
Yes to simplification, replacing 38 directives with UN regulations - as long as we are not seen as abdicating our right to legislate should we need to - and yes to the development of technologically driven solutions such as ECOR.
But, like Mr Turmes, I believe that what we should be looking for is a framework which extends to 2020 and beyond.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Verheugen on having taken the initiative to create a high-level group, CARS 21, to examine the European automotive industry.
Secondly, as regards the contribution of the automotive industry to the fight against global warming, the targets for the reduction of CO2 emissions are in line with the Davies report we adopted in October.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, setting up the CARS 21 High Level Group was exactly the right thing to do.
I therefore welcome the fact that we were quick in implementing the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards for motor cars and that the Commission proposal for a Euro 6 standard for goods vehicles has now been put forward.
This source-based legislation will enable us to help the towns, cities and communities of Europe to meet the particulate emission targets that have been set and in this way to provide a better air quality.
We have had the Bali Climate Conference, where Europe put forward a very assertive front.
Car manufacturers have known since 1995 that something had to be done in the area of research and development to produce environment-friendly models.
I think that a set-up time of 12 years would be sufficient to achieve the 120 g/km target by 2012, and this includes any complementary measures.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the car industry should have reduced its emissions by a great deal more than it has, but we are where we are and it takes time to achieve change economically, so I welcome the rapporteur's proposal to set a target of 125 g by 2015, to bring it in line with the vote of this Parliament last October.
It is important, too, for it to support the endeavour to simplify significantly the legislation affecting the automotive industry: there are more than 200 regulations in existence today.
I thought originally that it was not necessary to remind the European Commission of the significance of this industry to the economic and social development of the European Union, but since the Commission came up with the proposal of setting emission standards for new private cars, I am no longer so sure.
The European Parliament is also critically considering the time within which the European automotive industry is able to meet the technologically ambitious emissions targets such in a way that would have the minimum impact on the European industry's ability to compete.
If we really hope to reduce emissions throughout the automotive sector, we must have a more comprehensive understanding of these issues.
The CARS 21 High Level Group was a missed opportunity to put in place a vision of a sustainable automotive industry, a vision that provides an answer to the real challenges.
The setting-up of high level groups is an excellent idea in theory, but unfortunately CARS 21 was dominated by a conservative branch of industry.
It employs some 12 million people, it represents innovation and growth and it produces something designed to provide individual mobility.
Claude Turmes has just done as much.
This proves one thing: the strength of competition develops technology at a pace we cannot imagine.
But the important thing is not to discuss emissions from individual cars - big or small - because we need big cars and we will need small cars: they play a different role in different parts of our Union, in our countries.
That can only be done by a competitive European car industry and that can only be achieved if we have the right policies to balance the environment and competitiveness, and this report makes a good contribution towards that. (RO) First of all, I would like to extend my congratulations to the Rapporteur for the work done on this report.
Such a system was introduced in Romania as early as 2003, with very good results.
The rapporteur has misgivings about targets which are so difficult for industry to attain that they can jeopardise the competitiveness of companies, but we have heard that before in this debate.
The people of our countries do not want to pay too much for their cars, but they also know that we must get to grips with climate change and that we need to act quickly. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to join the many Members who have thanked the rapporteur for the excellent report we are discussing here.
It also follows some of the CARS 21 recommendations, such as the integrated approach to the reduction of CO2 emissions, the need to ensure appropriate lead-times and the protection of the internal and external competitiveness of the European industry.
As a result, it is essential to emphasise the need to reinforce, with the corresponding revision, the Directive on the European Works Council. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur, tomorrow in Brussels the 86th car showroom will open its doors and the environmentally-friendly car will take centre stage.
A significant number of European and other medium-sized cars already meet the new standard of 120 grams of CO2 per kilometre.
Even German cars, Mr Verheugen: the new Golf TDI 1900 is already on 115 grams per kilometre, so it really is possible in Germany too, and I think that we have to vigorously pursue that route further.
Despite all this optimistic data, the European car industry is facing some very serious challenges.
I fully support the final report of the CARS 21 High Level Group and the European Commission's communication on the subject.
The European car industry is one of the most competitive of its kind in the world.
I should like to call on the Commission to take more consistent and effective action to ensure respect for intellectual property rights and their implementation in all parts of the world, notably China.
This is absolutely vital. (NL) Mr President, I think that the frantic attempts of the auto lobby to get absolutely essential environmental measures postponed have been successful.
Waiting until 2015 to substantially reduce CO2 emissions from vehicles is highly irresponsible.
What is more, it is technically possible to achieve 120 grams per kilometre by 2012, and the automotive industry itself is solely to blame for the present situation.
After all, attempts to reduce emissions voluntarily have failed miserably.
Thus there must be a maximum 120 grams of CO2 emissions per kilometre by 2012. (DE) Mr President, I wanted to direct a further question to Mr Verheugen.
My comment had nothing whatsoever to do with the car industry but was one of principle on the connection between industrial policy and environmental policy, between economy and ecology.
As I now have the floor I would like to point something out to Mrs Corbey: it is not correct to assert that the Chinese are building cars that are more environmentally friendly than those made in Europe and that these are now flooding the European market in their millions.
If you relate the weight of these vehicles to their fuel consumption you will see that their performance is significantly worse than that of the cars currently being built in Europe.
If you think about it for just a moment you will soon come to the conclusion that this cannot be true.
I would like to close with a thought that will perhaps unite us all: I am able to remain quite composed throughout this entire debate for I really do believe that we are on the right road, because I know that the European car manufacturers and, more importantly, the European automotive suppliers - for they really are the driving force behind European industry - have not been asleep in recent years but have been working on a whole series of technological breakthroughs that will enable us to achieve our objectives.
This can be as ambitious as possible provided that it is long term and provided it is stable.
I would at this point just like to quote from the great German sociologist Max Weber, who said that politicians must have passion - and I am actually trying to show some of this now - but at the same time they must have a sense of responsibility and a sense of proportion.
That is what all this is about: we should not be giving the people of Europe the run-around, but should be doing things that are really achievable.
The rate of increase is alarming, for this sector increased 26% between 1990 and 2004, making it 26.5% of the Union's total energy consumption.
The only 'success' is that the average consumption by cars was 12.4% less in 2004 than in 1995.
