In my view, political guidelines governing the activities of other development banks would be desirable as well.
In selecting the projects to be funded, the EBRD prefers to be involved in small and medium-sized projects rather than promoting large-scale prestige projects.
It shows great willingness to take risks through its commitment to projects which other banks deem too risky, but it does not systematically seek the security of state guarantees.
Although its activities focus primarily on the transitional promotion of private and public enterprise, its operations undoubtedly have macroeconomic effects.
In this context, it should also be a stated aim of the EBRD's operations to achieve synergy effects.
Each country in which it operates has taken different decisions on its economic structures throughout the transformation process, especially as regards the division between the public and private sectors.
My report is a first for the European Parliament, since it is the first time that the operations of the EBRD have been subject to scrutiny and assessment by this House.
In conclusion, I should simply like to emphasise that on the basis of these findings, it appears that the relationship between the Union and the Bank is bound to become even closer in all countries.
Clearly, there is scope for further development of the Bank's activities in Russia, in other CIS States, and in the Balkans.
As you have said, this is a first and it is very important for the institution that I have the honour to chair.
The EBRD is an novel institution, first of all because it is recent and young; it has achieved some successes; it has also endured some failures and is always trying to learn.
We saw this when our strategy was updated for the coming years, with the commitment made by the non-Europeans to support the transition process in the future throughout the region, including in Central Europe.
The EBRD has a political mandate.
We are also implementing the strategy adopted by the Bank's shareholders, which is development towards the East.
For obvious reasons, you are aware of the situation in Central Europe, and I had the opportunity to discuss it at length with Commissioner Solbes Mira; there is a considerable need for investment and, in particular, budgetary pressure can only be reduced through a high volume of investment.
My second comment regarding strategy concerns the importance we attach to the development of small enterprises, micro-enterprises and SMEs.
We are implementing it, I must stress, in particular thanks to the support of our shareholders and of the European Union, who play a most essential role.
In particular we are currently developing contacts with businesses, not only large businesses but also medium-sized businesses, in Europe, because we think that medium-sized enterprises in Europe could have an extremely significant role to play in the development of the economies of the East.
Similarly, when we work with large enterprises, we look at the structuring effect on the Eastern economies, and particularly on sub-contracting, the development of small enterprises through large enterprises.
I think that the best example that I can give is the development of enterprises in the automobile sector, which attracts sub-contractors and enables the development of local sub-contractors.
My last point is that we are currently doing a great deal to develop work with local enterprises, because we consider it to be absolutely essential; this is progressing all over Central Europe, obviously, but also in Russia and Central Asia.
In the same way, we are starting to develop funding for municipalities and we plan to develop funding for municipalities in local currency, even if we take on the monetary risk ourselves, due to the development of the financial markets, so that local communities do not have to do so.
I would just like to make two specific comments.
First of all regarding the social dimension, always a key concern of the EBRD which, while being an institution designed to promote the market economy, considers that social cohesion is an important point.
My last comment concerns relations with the European Union.
Mr Solbes is our governor and monitors us closely with the required level of firmness.
As you said, Mr Solbes, not only do we receive political support, which is essential to us, but also financial support, and that role is currently being extended.
You are aware that the EIB is a shareholder of the EBRD, like the Commission and the European Union.
We therefore have a close, trusting relationship; our aim is certainly not to be redundant but to ensure that we complement each other as necessary.
I felt that it was useful, on the occasion of this first examination of the situation of the EBRD in the European Parliament, to make these few introductory comments.
His comments are measured and are a positive contribution to the EBRD's future.
This is the first time, as has already been said, that Parliament has reported on the bank, even though the majority of its capital and votes are held by EU Member States and EU institutions, even though it has played, and continues to play, a vital role in helping many of the accession states to develop their economies and political institutions to the standards which their people seek, and which will permit them a smooth entrance into the European Union family.
The EBRD is also making a critical contribution to the countries which will border the enlarged European Union.
In its objectives the EBRD is unique for such an institution, in that it not only aims to provide for economic progress, but also has a very specific duty to help its client countries develop a democratic culture and the necessary democratic institutions and procedures.
We will therefore support Amendments 2 and 4, which also welcome and encourage a more open and transparent approach.
Hopefully, the next time Parliament drafts a report on the EBRD, it will be to welcome the continuing success of a well-known and widely esteemed institution.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, President of the EBRD, I welcome the fact that for the first time in your presence, Parliament is examining a report on the EBRD, whose work, reputation and credibility have clearly been consolidated under your presidency.
I would also like to thank our rapporteur, as he has shown how seriously Parliament has examined the work of the EBRD.
Along with the rapporteur, we have co-signed two amendments which I hope Parliament will be able to adopt in order to further improve on the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The work of the EBRD deserves to be commended by Parliament, as it is an institution that is both original and exemplary.
There is also the capacity to take risks, to evolve in an unstable environment and to provide funding for essential projects, including during times of crisis, as you demonstrated during the Russian crisis.
I would like to specifically highlight two points in Mr Markov's report.
The EBRD should not advocate economic liberalism, it should also promote democratic and social values: you are not built on the model of the IMF.
Finally, I would like to highlight the future of the EBRD, as although ten countries that you work in are going to join us from 1 May 2004, the transition period is far from completed and we still largely need assistance from the EBRD in order to facilitate transition funding in those countries, so that they can play a full role in the European Union.
If the gulfs between countries and peoples are not to increase further, the EBRD's efforts are perhaps needed now more than ever.
I am particularly pleased that the Markov report emphasises free competition and the opportunities provided by the market and highlights, for example, the great importance of small companies to an affluent society.
Mr Purvis mentioned the Balkans and Serbia.
There too, I believe that the EBRD's efforts are especially important in a situation in which democracy is very shaky and needs support.
I also believe it is important to emphasise that the EBRD should be managed in a professional and efficient way.
We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party support Amendments Nos 2 and 4, just as Mr Purvis does, but also parts of Amendment No 5.
I think that today we can welcome the vision of those who established the EBRD, Jacques Attali (even though subsequently his management was called into question) and François Mitterrand.
Finally, how can we consolidate the way that it complements public aid and the EIB?
Thirdly, does the EBRD not have a particular role to play in order to promote social responsibility among companies and market operators?
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lemierre, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot add my voice to the praise heaped on the Bank by the rapporteur and the previous speakers.
The fact is that this project will not produce a peace agreement, but will simply let the conflict in the region simmer on.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is supporting dubious nuclear projects in Rovno and Khmelnitsky.
I would therefore like to ask the President how, in that case, the Development Bank has still transferred EUR two billion to EURATOM to make these projects possible.
This is probably due to one of the major contradictions that exist in the EBRD's institutional activities: the fact that it promotes market economics using a non-market instrument, that is a loan guaranteed by public funds, having the possibility - also mentioned in the Markov report - of taking risks that other institutions would not take.
This leads me on to a rather sensitive aspect of the EBRD's activity - an aspect of which the institutions' top echelons are aware, as I well know - which is the risk that EBRD funding may squeeze out private risk capital and the development of endogenous credit in these countries.
The balance-sheet is impressive.
As the European Parliament, we attempted this from the outset during the Bank's start-up phase, and I must say it has not always been a success story; the Bank has also been through some very difficult times.
Mr Lemierre, you have described the Bank's task as being a 'classical' general interest service which, however, makes use of private-sector intervention instruments.
You are undoubtedly in a difficult position because the development of the private sector, as an outcome of successful transformation processes in the states where you operate, fails above all because there is no fully functioning financial sector, which means that the financial conditions for business start-ups and operations are very difficult.
I also recognise that your activities in the promotion of small and medium-sized businesses are important to a functioning market economy and to the development of democracy.
In my view, it is especially important that you can take risks which others cannot take, and that this willingness to take risks does not conflict with sound and reliable management.
In this context, you should focus even more strongly on ensuring respect for human rights and democratic principles.
The EBRD is still operational in Central and Eastern Europe.
In my view, Mr President, this is a fresh challenge for the EBRD!
As the President said, the Bank has done a great job of improving nuclear safety in these countries.
The fact is that all these nuclear power stations are veritable time bombs.
The Bank is responsible for the fund to be used for decommissioning the Ignalina power station in Lithuania.
I should like to call upon the Bank's president to post something on its web site in this connection.
With regard to the Bank's accounts, it should be noted that these are not audited by any external firm of auditors.
The choice of economic activities must combine the local dimension with the international and requires a supply of credit not only to encourage the emergence of initiatives that are well established within a country but also to help them spread to other markets.
It is certainly the job of the EBRD to do this, but it is even more important to try to do it in countries with little industrial development, which have a greater need for support and revitalisation.
If, in order to achieve this objective, it needs to take risks and, in some cases, accept unexpected losses, it must not then cut out initiatives and planned investments but rather benefit from new experiences so that it can manage lending more attentively and read the risks more carefully.
This bank takes an ethical approach to credit management.
Its institutional commitment is to invest in any country that is inspired by democratic principles and determined to promote a market economy.
This is a matter for concern, because no economic or financial manoeuvre, however good it may be, could replace the support that small banks have always offered to small and medium-sized enterprises.
We must also note that small-scale lending in many Member States and particularly the accession states is being thoroughly neglected; that leads to a daily increase in financial exclusion, which is the existence of serious gaps in the supply of small-scale credit services in the countries with the weakest economies, where a form of discrimination based on geographical criteria arises: red-lining.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lemierre, since its creation, the EBRD has been a shining and undeniable example of the solidarity shown by democratic and developed societies.
The forthcoming enlargement of the Union to encompass a significant number of countries from the East will deepen and highlight the importance of the financial and technical aid that the Bank has provided and granted to the candidate countries in the pre-accession phase.
The recommendations contained in this report, which are aimed at increasing financial and technical aid for small and medium-sized businesses and at prioritising the implementation of financial resources within partnerships, especially in the form of venture capital, and the call for an ongoing commitment to train staff in the bank which can help them better to perform their duties, are extremely positive aspects.
It is also significant that this debate is taking place in the presence of the President of the EBRD, to whom, ultimately, these recommendations are also addressed and on whose abilities the Bank's success and policies largely depend.
The first is in response to Mr Blak.
I would like to say that this is probably one of the measures that the Bank can operate: more nuclear safety, greater impact on the population, greater transparency, fighting corruption within projects.
My third comment will simply be that I have listened to all of the speeches with a great deal of interest.
I think that these speeches clearly reflect the depth and strength of the institution's mandate, but also the challenges inherent in it.
That leads me on to a point that is very important to us, the dialogue with all of the governments and authorities in the region.
We are engaged in high-level political dialogue in each of the states in region.
This leads me to recall a few of the EBRD's convictions, which it has acquired over ten years of experience, that the market economy cannot work without democracy, that the market economy cannot work without social cohesion, that there cannot be social cohesion without a strong civil society and that there cannot be strong civil society without transparency and fighting corruption.
These are the messages that we are of course regularly developing at political level, when we assess the situations of the various states with regard to Article 1 of the institution's mandate, but also in the dialogue that we maintain.
The answer is no.
The debate is closed.
The omens at the start of 2003 are very sad.
In the course of the last ten years, in fact, aquaculture has seen spectacular growth throughout the world, as well as in the European Community, and has become a high-growth sector in world food production.
In the EU, aquaculture accounts for almost 30% of the total value of fisheries production, almost EUR three billion per year and 60 000 jobs.
That is why I have focused my report on four key aspects of sustainable development: those relating to the environment, the social sphere, the economy and governance.
Nor shall I go into more detail about my report which, I am very happy to say, has been unanimously adopted by the Committee on Fisheries.
I prefer to take this opportunity to express once again my compassion for the fish farmers and fishermen who have been affected on such a long-term basis by the loss of the Prestige, which shows just how vulnerable they are.
Finally, I would emphasise the importance of combating flags of convenience, as well as the need to establish a European Corps of Coastguards.
It is important for the Commission to implement the recommendations in my report, particularly in relation to research and innovation.
The Commission would first like to thank Parliament for its support of a range of new measures put forward as part of the Commission's strategy.
It is to be hoped that when it comes to adopting the new decisions on framework programme budgetary allocations, Parliament will support the allocation of additional resources to research into aquaculture.
We do not believe that the request contained in Paragraph 15 calls for additional legislative measures.
All this is dealt with in the communication.
Nonetheless, we have taken note of Parliament's requests.
Lastly, the Commission has taken note of Paragraphs 27 and 32 of the resolution.
These issues call for more detailed consideration in the future.
On the one hand there are some very good things in it, to the extent that it addresses the whole issue of aquaculture and sustainable development and in particular its impact on the environment.
If it makes things more difficult, that is because it is a precautionary approach, it is the way we should approach aquaculture.
The other questionable aspect of the report is the whole issue of wanting the Commission to promote aquaculture.
Introducing genetically modified fish into aquaculture is something that is extremely dangerous and should be avoided.
We also have to address the use of industrial fishing to feed aquaculture.
It is quite clear that if this industry keeps growing as it is, it will soon outstrip the supply of resources from industrial fishing.
Whether we like it or not, that is what we are facing, plus the fact that aquaculture is an extremely dangerous industry in the impact it has on the environment.
Finally, on the matter of consumer confidence, I am very wary of the notion in the report that the Commission should promote consumer confidence in aquaculture.
It was therefore particularly appropriate for our Committee on Fisheries to prepare an own-initiative report on such an important and sensitive issue.
The problems and challenges surrounding aquaculture were brought to the fore well in his report.
This market must be put on the right track.
Removing regulatory barriers will make the market more consistent, more transparent and consequently more efficient.
It must always be possible to guarantee food safety.
The report places aquaculture in the context of sustainable development and the precautionary principle, which requires, in particular, full attention to be paid to environmental issues and the production of genetically modified fish to be rejected.
Hence the need for greater support for research into this activity, for the use of production techniques, hygiene and safety standards, by making the application of the precautionary principle a priority, and for reducing environmental impacts, with specific assistance needing to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Mr President, at a time when the Commission would appear to be bent on introducing a common fisheries policy which is geared more to the short-term interests of some Member States than to fishermen, it is encouraging to see that it has finally got something right.
Broadly speaking I agree with the approach taken in the Commission's communication on the future of aquaculture.
There can be no question that all future development in the sector must be on a sustainable basis.
As the rapporteur emphasises, however, its development is conditional upon a number of precautions being taken.
I also support the rapporteur in rejecting the introduction of genetically modified fish into the European Union.
Products that are bred are different from products that are the result of fishing.
An expansion in aquaculture products can only, however, be envisaged as a supplement to traditional products which, let it not be forgotten, make an active contribution to economic activity in our coastal regions.
Mr President, this is a good, robust and well-crafted report on an important sector in which - since we import more than half of the fish we consume - we have a very long way to go, in which traceability is best ensured through domestic production and in which, there being an upper limit on resources, aquaculture enables us to create vital additional jobs in our coastal regions.
The rapporteur is right to condemn the Green Paper's failure to mention aquaculture and to emphasise the shortcomings of the Commission's communication of September 2002.
I believe, on the contrary, that a large part of this type of research must be conducted with the aid of public funds, as must the ongoing renovation of the vessels that are the tools of the small-scale fishing industry.
This is a crucial issue for the future and for the way in which the sector is perceived.
I share the rapporteur's concern about the risk posed by genetically modified fish, and it is very clear that there must be a total ban in the European Union on both the production and import of such fish.
Stocks are continuing to decline.
His own-initiative report on aquaculture is a particularly good example of the pro-active approach adopted by members of the Committee on Fisheries when there are problems to be solved.
The relevant communication from the Commission underlines the fact that Parliament can certainly take the initiative on important issues.
Mr President, a very important aspect of the common fisheries policy is the communication from the Commission on a strategy for the sustainable development of European aquaculture of September 2002.
The increasing importance of this sector of the fisheries industry is not only due to its steady growth in recent years; it can also be regarded as a genuine alternative to the dwindling stocks worldwide of marine fauna used for human consumption.
The financial resources should undoubtedly be boosted here so that even better recommendations can be made.
Let me cite a few: the use of pharmaceuticals, minimising environmental impacts, food safety for consumers, improving production units in line with more stringent animal welfare standards, and, not least, protecting wild species from genetically manipulated fish species.
There is a need for the use of antibiotics and medicines to be more closely monitored, and also for a system to be established and data assembled for the purposes of health protection.
At the same time, and this is not unrelated to what I have just said, there is a burgeoning aquaculture sector, which big business is invading in a big way.
The consequences of this policy have represented and still represent a genuine sacrifice on the part of Portugal's coastal communities, which have for decades lived from the sea and because of it.
I believe that aquaculture can made into something complementary to traditional fishing, on the one hand benefiting from the experience gained by those who have always been involved in fishing activities and, on the other, providing these people with a full professional rehabilitation in the same sector of activity.
The increasing importance of this sector requires solid investment by the Union, not only in scientific research but also in training and in professional qualifications, in the installation and modernisation of structures and equipment and in health protection, particularly with regard to the use of high-quality meal and oils, to limiting the use of antibiotics and to rejecting genetically modified fish.
There are approximately 150 Community regulations on aquaculture.
It is not, however, the high number of regulations that provide guarantees of effective legal protection in this field, but improved quality in the production of Community legislation and in the definition of measures to be adopted.
This quality can be improved not only by correctly implementing and targeting Community investment, but also by simplifying legislation, making it more coherent and more comprehensible to those for whom it is intended and, consequently, making its implementation more effective.
These are, in my opinion, elements that are crucial for the necessary change of mentality and of image that even today damage the public perception, especially consumer perception, of this activity with regard to some species of fish.
Remember that, in closed environments such as the coastal lagoons, the Mediterranean or the Etang de Thau, the act of simply painting the boats can disturb the environment.
That is why humble fishermen have always been unwittingly engaged in sustainable development.
A need exists, therefore, to make it easier for young people to set up in business through training, through investment in purification plant and sandbars, through state-of-the-art scientific research, perhaps even in the form of nanobiology, and through the creation of quality labels (for example, for Arcachon oysters and also for oysters from Bouzigues, which are perhaps better, or from the Etang de Thau).
Finally, with ten thousand years of catching up to do on those who work the land, consideration should perhaps be given to cultivating the sea.
Mr Martin's report has come at a crucial time in the fisheries sector.
The Fisheries Committee visited a fish farm at Rio Frio near Granada in Andalusia last November where they are even producing sturgeon and caviar.
So we have a vast and growing aquaculture sector in the EU providing a great many jobs, often in remote rural areas with fragile economies.
I believe Mr Martin sets out the parameters to achieve these objectives and I welcome his approach.
As the rapporteur said himself in his introduction to this debate, this is a promising sector which, if handled properly, can cause great benefits to accrue to the EU in the future.
Traces of at least 50 fish rearing ponds dating from the Roman period have been identified along the Mediterranean rim.
In fact, in 40 years, world fish production has increased fourfold, and today stands at around of 100 million tonnes, and world demand is increasing inexorably, in line with demographic growth.
In conclusion, I would just like to ask the Commissioner to pay greater attention to the two issues that Parliament wants to raise: first, the changes in the FIFG regulation, the financial regulation, particularly as regards young people's start-up and the modernisation of farms; and secondly, the natural disaster fund.
Mr President, I too am grateful to the rapporteur because I believe this report enables us to set down some definitive points: first of all aquaculture as a substantial source of supplementary income, especially for fishermen who live and work in marginal areas; and secondly its capacity for reducing fishing and for preserving our resources.
The Commission's target of 8 000 to 10 000 more jobs is an ambitious challenge, and it will require a solid commitment to promote the economic profitability of aquaculture.
In this respect, there is a need for a code of conduct, with well-defined rules and parameters, and, above all, there is a need to ensure that all products from third countries comply with our standards of hygiene, food safety and animal welfare.
Congratulations, Mr Martin.
This report gives us an excellent analysis of the current state of aquaculture in the European Union and also provides us with important guidelines for the future.
Nevertheless, as a consequence of recent food crises that have beset Europe, consumers have become suspicious of aquaculture.
Salmon accounts for nearly 40% of Scottish food exports and Atlantic salmon farming is now worth more to the Scottish economy in financial terms than cattle and sheep farming combined.
I hope the Parliament will endorse this report and support aquaculture.
Wild fish stocks in the European Union are about 40% of what our consumers in the Union need.
Parliament has been dealing with this subject over many years, yet there is not sufficient consciousness of the important contribution this industry can make to the peripheral, under-developed and poorer regions.
We are now producing something like 27% of our needs from farmed fish and there is no reason why we cannot continue.
According to data supplied by the European Commission last September, the number of people employed has risen to 80 000.
This shows how important Lebanon is for us in the European Union.
Its cultural diversity and its economic power, which is slowly developing once more, are important for us.
The rapporteur does nothing whatsoever to call into question either its actions or the market context in which these are carried on, even if he would like the EBRD to be more concerned about employment and the consequences of its activities for the economy and the populations concerned.
The fact that, in Russia, the EBRD invests its capital where banks and private companies do not venture and that - as a result of having, like many local and international speculators, taken its chances in the financial lottery that has done even more to ruin this country - it has occasionally suffered heavy losses, would leave us cold, were it not for the fact that such activities conceal an appalling catalogue of theft from the people of Eastern Europe.
We have therefore rejected this report.
The EBRD is not connected with the European Union.
Its capital derives from more than 60 countries interested in the future of Central and Eastern Europe following the fall of the Berlin Wall.
During the twelve years of transition, the EBRD has had to take up many challenges.
Its president, Jacques de Larosière, appeared before the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left to report to us on its activities.
Its mandate is to invest where other banks fear to tread.
This report has the merit of reminding us of the important purpose of the EBRD, which is to create a market economy likely to strengthen democracy in the countries in transition, which often leads it to run risks and not to systematically seek State guarantees.
Consequently, it invests where other banks fear to tread.
The EBRD has been largely concentrating its activities on developing small and medium-sized businesses, developing, on the one hand, aid programmes for local banks, and, on the other, promoting the establishment of banks specialising in providing loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-loans.
The EBRD must continue to function as an institution that shares the spirit of solidarity and cohesion that are a collective aim of the European Union.
Hugues Martin report (A5-0448/2002) Mr President, I welcome Mr Martin's report on aquaculture which has the potential to provide a safe, relatively cheap source of good protein as well as to create jobs in the European Union.
In order to guarantee the sector's future, as the rapporteur proposes, we must take account of aspects such as the following: the drawing up and management of integrated environmental management plans, for both coastal and inland waters; increasing food safety in order to guarantee animal health and consumer confidence, stepping up research in technological, environmental, and health terms in order to find new solutions, and adequate funding of the sector, both for new units and for modernising existing ones.
Genetically modified fish in such cages can escape and irreversibly change all the life in the sea, for example, by wiping out any natural fish that are left.
Indeed, when the relevant Directorate-General negotiates within multilateral organisations, or when it negotiates international agreements on fisheries, it does not appear to enjoy the support of the world's largest trading and economic power.
Approximately 3 000 European vessels fish on the high seas or in the exclusive economic zones of other states.
The yearly catch amounts to 2.7 million tonnes, which represents 40% of the annual catch by the Community's fleet.
The financial cost of the CFP's external dimension is very small.
It remains for me to highlight the social aspects of this type of fishing.
This communication addresses all the issues relating to the bilateral aspect of the Commission's relations with third countries as far as fisheries are concerned, especially in the case of developing coastal states.
The Commission recently presented an action plan to combat illegal, uncontrolled and unregulated fishing.
Further, the Busk report supporting this approach was adopted unopposed at last November's sitting.
The European Union has committed itself to complying with all international agreements it is party to, and to ratifying the agreement reached in New York.
I would also draw your attention to the fact that the communication on association agreements in the fisheries sector adopted by the Commission does not exclude recourse to such an instrument in order to promote future associations.
Indeed I think it can be said that all the Spanish members of the fisheries committee are dedicated and hardworking; this is perhaps not surprising because the fishing industry is of such key importance to Spain, and the subject of this report is of such importance to the Spanish fleet in particular that this report was very appropriately awarded to Mrs Miguélez Ramos.
For over a thousand years Spanish fishermen have been fishing off the coast of Newfoundland and Labrador, hundreds of years before Christopher Columbus was alleged to have discovered America, and it is this distant water fleet that we now regard as an important contribution to the overall fisheries strategy within the Community.
In our debate this morning many speakers noted how important the aquaculture industry has become in meeting consumer demand for fish products against a background of collapsing fish stocks within our own EU waters.
It leads us, with irrefutable logic, to the conclusion that the European Union must have an increasingly active fisheries policy in this field, to the contrary of what many critics or sceptics have said.
This policy must even be brought to bear on the European Union's diplomatic efforts, particularly where its trade policy is concerned.
The European Union cannot do without international fishing grounds and the agreements negotiated with third countries, in the exclusive economic zones of these same countries.
This evidence states that fishing on the high seas by the European Union fleet provides work for 40 650 workers and that the catches total 2.7 million tonnes per year.
The financial effort from the budget of the European Union is, nevertheless, modest, since it only came to EUR 276.1 million in 2001.
If EU vessels stop fishing in international waters, others would definitely take their place, without the ecological or social concerns that boats from the European Union have.
The European Union must set an example in complying with international agreements and must give a decisive boost to the regulation of international fishing.
Secondly and lastly, the European Union must concentrate its efforts on research and on monitoring international waters, because unless the European Union or the international bodies in which it participates do not do so, illegal fishing will always take place in these waters place and they will always contain a no man's land, or in this case, no man's waters.
We in Scotland know how painful it is for the fishing industry when crisis conditions are reached, but we cannot solve problems in the EU by exporting them.
We have, however, regularly expressed our concern on two issues.
First, our fisheries activity at international level, and in particular any agreements reached directly with third countries, must be made compatible with our development policy.
The ELDR amendments address these developmental and financial concerns.
Madam President, as regards fishing in international waters we need a responsible and non-exploitative approach.
It is true that down the centuries many Member States have colonised other countries and unjustly exploited the weaker and poorer countries of the world, but in the 21st century we should realise that the imperialist approach is wrong.
We need to look at the social and economic contribution we make to developing countries, and in relation to fishing agreements this leaves a lot to be desired.
To my own shame my own country, Ireland, has the Atlantic Dawn, which is an exploitative vessel.
Like many other huge vessels - in fact it is worse than other vessels because it is one of the largest there is - it goes to developing countries, acting as if it had some right to exploit the resources of other countries without any checks.
Madam President, this report comes before the European Parliament at a time of growing concern around the world about the effects of the European Union's deals with third world countries.
The report is very defensive in tone.
It claims that EU fishermen 'are not pirates'.
Furthermore these deals are morally repugnant, in that they directly and indirectly cause the deaths of hundreds of indigenous black African fishermen every year.
I suspect that there will still be a majority in favour, but be aware that people are waking up and will not tolerate these deals for very much longer.
Madam President, Commissioner, the great interest which you have witnessed in this House today - even though you yourself are not responsible for fisheries - has, I hope, made it clear how much our ideas deserve support, both in the Committee on Fisheries and in the Commission.
We are therefore reliant on fishing in foreign waters, both in international waters and in the coastal zones of other states.
The European Union's fisheries agreements are an important factor both for supply and employment, especially in the regions which depend on fishing.
Simply rejecting a report, as has just been demanded, cannot be our objective, for we must examine these issues seriously despite all the potential contradictions.
It is absurd to justify the irresponsible exploitation of stocks in other waters with arguments based on fleet reductions and market supply in the European Union.
This can only take place jointly and in a global framework.
The sanctions must not simply be tokenist.
I agree with her when she says that fishing in international waters is crucial to the European Union, to the fisheries sector itself, but also to international policy and economic and social cooperation with other countries.
The failed reform of the common fisheries policy highlighted this unfortunate situation.
In this context, I have to say that my country, Galicia, is one of the major victims: in Community waters; we suffer (...) at the hands of certain countries and fleets, in international waters, we suffer from the contempt of the Commission and the Council as a result of this international policy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place once the afternoon debates have been concluded.
The protection and conservation of wild flora and fauna are also two of the objectives defined in the communication from the European Commission on a strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment.
The Commission is keeping abreast of the current debate on the possible effects of the use of low frequency active sonar on some species of cetaceans.
For these reasons and following recent events in the Canary Islands, at the Habitats Committee meeting on 20 November the Commission requested the national authorities of Member States where similar incidents may have taken place to provide further details on the subject.
We shall now send the Member States a reminder to ensure they respond to our request.
Madam President, I wish to thank the Council of Presidents for having included this important issue in the debate, and I would also like to thank the Commissioner.
The low frequency active radar system developed by NATO known as LFAS can cause whales to stray onto shores and can damage their internal organs, leading to death.
In March 2000, 17 whales were beached on the shores of the Bahamas Islands and eight of them died whilst the navy's radar system was being tested in the sea.
In September 2002 in the Canary Islands, and so within the EU area, whale deaths occurred on a scale hardly seen for 20 years, when 15 whales of different species died from haematomas.
NATO was conducting military manoeuvres in the area involving 58 warships and six submarines from different member states of the alliance.
The effects of loud but low frequency noise on the behaviour of whales and their internal organs are wide-ranging.
The system can muddle the communication system of whales even a long way off from the sound source as it operates on the same low frequencies that the whales themselves use.
The link between radar and whale deaths is actually hard to prove because it is very difficult to track whales and study changes in their behaviour over a long period of time.
The US navy has carried out an evaluation of the effects of the system on the environment, but reputable American environmental organisations regard it as flawed.
Nevertheless, the navy has a permit from a national authority to test the system for a total of 432 hours in other seawaters until August this year.
The system can be used to cover up to 75% of the world's seas.
It would be best if the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy would debate the issue and draft a report on it, on the basis of the Commission's statement we have heard here today and any other data obtained from elsewhere.
This issue is of growing concern both to the public and to this Parliament, and I think the fact that we were able to attract 60 signatures to our oral question on the subject is a clear testimony to that.
But this technology also constitutes a breach of the United Nations Law of the Sea Convention which requires states to take all measures that are necessary to prevent, reduce and control pollution in the marine environment from any source.
The time has come, accordingly, for NATO and its members to act, and since European Union Member States make up over half of the 19 members of NATO, the EU has a special responsibility to promote action.
For the Commission to respond to a written question of mine on 29 November 2002 simply by saying this type of technology needs to be used with caution is not good enough.
We also want the US and NATO countries to prepare and make public the studies on the potentially adverse effects of LFAS which are required by law under Article 206 of the Law of the Sea.
The debate is closed.
The next item is debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (Rule 50).
Madam President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we are deeply perturbed by the developments in North Korea - a country without democracy, a country which allows its people to starve, and a country which nonetheless feels compelled to defend itself with a 'nuclear arsenal'.
It is very difficult for us to find a line here which expresses this deep concern about the situation in North Korea, yet does not escalate the conflict.
With this in mind, Madam President, I think we are able to support the relevant resolution and express the hope that the United States and Europe will opt in this instance for a common approach in order to persuade North Korea to help its own people instead of posing a threat to the global community.
More than two million people are said to have starved to death over the past few years and more than 13 million are suffering from malnutrition.
In this workers' paradise, about 200 000 people are kept imprisoned in re-education camps for political reasons.
It is a good thing that the Commission is intending to earmark another EUR 9.5 million for women and children over and above the 50 million already spent.
We need to look again at our policy of cooperation with North Korea in terms of a poverty alleviation programme to offset the effects of introducing a market economy, democratic reforms and respect for human rights, and official diplomatic recognition for North Korea by other states as well as the European Union.
The possible development of North Korean nuclear weapons and the clandestine sale of these weapons, including missile systems, now requires a quick response from the international community.
I therefore call on the Council and the Commission to make a case for a regional diplomatic approach to the North Korean crisis.
Madam President, various breaches of human rights in North Korea have been mentioned here, breaches which offend our moral sense and our concept of civilisation.
After visiting that country three times, however, I believe the most aberrant, most monstrous kind of breach of human rights is the fact that, if today North Korea held free, democratic elections as we do, the current leader, Kim Jong-Il, would win them.
Some of you have pointed out the contradictions that exist in North Korea.
On the one hand, it is a country with an enormous army, it has a secret uranium enrichment programme, it is the first country to have withdrawn from the Non-Proliferation Treaty and is threatening its neighbours, and on the other hand, it is suffering from serious internal problems.
At the same time, I think that it is essential, as some of you have suggested, to pursue our efforts, to pursue the dialogue in order to make them see reason.
Therefore, following the discussions held in November in the Council, the Ministers agreed that we need to maintain our humanitarian assistance, including food aid.
In terms of food aid, we are currently a relatively minor donor.
It was 39 000 tonnes of cereals especially for children, in response to the appeal made in November by the World Food Programme for North Korea.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place once the afternoon debates have been concluded.
The next item is a joint debate on the following five motions for resolutions on Equatorial Guinea: B5-0038/2003 by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, Mrs Carlotti, Mr Martínez Martínez, Mr Obiols i Germà and Mr Carnero González, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists: presidential elections and lack of respect for human rights in Equatorial Guinea; B5-0040/2003 by Mrs Ferrer and Mr Posselt, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: Equatorial Guinea; B5-0044/2003 by Mrs Sanders-ten Holte, Mr Sánchez García and Mr Gasòliba i Böhm, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party: the human rights situation in Equatorial Guinea; B5-0046/2003 by Mr Rod, Mrs Isler Béguin and Mrs Maes, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: presidential elections in Equatorial Guinea; B5-0050/2003 by Mr Marset Campos and Mrs González Álvarez, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left: presidential elections and lack of respect for human rights in Equatorial Guinea.
Madam President, the disregard for democracy that the authorities of Equatorial Guinea have been displaying for years reached its peak during the recent elections in December.
Madam President, recalling that this is the fifth European Parliament resolution on human rights in Guinea, and taking into account the statement made by the Presidency of the Union on the elections in Guinea, the Socialist Group asks the institutions of the European Union to use every means possible to ensure that a peaceful transmission to democracy is initiated in Equatorial Guinea, that political prisoners are immediately released and that the international commitments made by President Obiang are complied with.
Madam President, we attach a great deal of importance to paragraph 7 of our Joint Resolution, which states 'Asks the Commission to draw up a report on the impact on democracy and human rights of the policies of the oil companies operating in Equatorial Guinea'.
We are talking about a country that has oil, the income from which goes to President Obiang, his family and friends, but not to the population of Guinea.
One third of the population has a life expectancy of 40 years and 57% do not have access to drinking water.
Therefore, Madam President, perhaps we need to promote, in the United Nations Security Council, an embargo on Guinean oil and, perhaps, now that there are four Member States of the European Union that are part of the Security Council, one of its agreed actions could be monitoring the democratisation processes in a series of countries and promoting appropriate measures in order to encourage the necessary changes, in accordance with the priorities stated by the European Union.
Therefore, Madam President, we consider that this Resolution is very good and positive in terms of achieving something that is among the priorities for Parliament and the European Union.
We need to strongly condemn abuses, but we should also acknowledge steps forward when they are made, for example, the freeing of 120 people who had been in prison for some time on 12 October in honour of the 34th anniversary of the independence of Guinea.
Therefore, in the Resolution being debated today the Guinean Government should be invited to take measures to give credibility to its will to make the system democratic, establishing a serious dialogue with absolutely all of the political movements.
Equatorial Guinea is the umpteenth poverty-stricken African country in which someone is clinging on to power, enriching himself, violating human rights and completely ignoring the international community.
The European Union must engage vigorously in the political dialogue.
Even if this situation does improve, in the context of democratisation or capacity building, this regime will claim that this gives them legitimacy.
Madam President, Equatorial Guinea has unfortunately been a negative example of an African country for decades, but sadly it is not an isolated case.
Yet on the other hand, we ourselves have a responsibility, because this country - like many other African countries - has become a pawn in the international competition for resources, and unfortunately, this involves European interests as well.
For this reason, I think that paragraph 7 of the resolution is extremely important, for we have a responsibility here, and we also have opportunities to exert influence.
Unless we start with very basic institution-building in this country - as we sought to do in European countries, as in Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina, where conditions are far more straightforward and stable - we will never achieve any success.
Above all, we should not point the finger at others; we should accept our own responsibility first, and that means examining the role played by our oil companies in what is sadly a very dirty game.
Not only is it bankrupt, but it is also continually failing to comply with each and every one of the commitments made, first of all to the European Union and, in general, to the international community in terms of moving towards the rule of law.
The European Union has a responsibility towards democracy and human rights in Equatorial Guinea and some of its Member States have a twofold responsibility.
The Commission needs to assess what is happening with oil in Equatorial Guinea.
This deterioration casts doubt on whether President Obiang's regime has a genuine desire for democratisation and respect for human rights.
We also share your doubts and your assessment of the elections on 15 December, which were called early, breaching the provisions of the Constitution and preventing electoral observers from attending.
Also, the general pardon issued by President Obiang in October should be applied to all of the political opponents detained in spring 2002 and convicted in unsafe trials.
We are all in agreement regarding cooperation with Equatorial Guinea, which is very dependent on the problems in the democratisation process and on the progress of human rights in the country.
It is true that the National Indicative Programme of the eighth European Development Fund, signed in July 2000, highlighted support for democracy, human rights, civil society and the rule of law as a priority area in which we should act.
It also establishes that providing European funds for other measures is subject to visible efforts by the Guinean Government in this area.
We are therefore aiming to promote democracy and respect for human rights.
With regard to paragraph 7 of your Resolution, I would like to point out that in October the Commission proposed to the Government of Equatorial Guinea that a mission should be conducted to evaluate the overall application of activities associated with consolidating the rule of law and promoting and respecting human rights, as laid down in the cooperation programme.
We need to know the progress of that situation and its conclusions in order to make any decision on continuing cooperation activities in that country and, in particular, in order to sign the new National Indicative Programme for the ninth EDF.
Finally, the Commission considers, as some of you have said, that we need to step up our efforts and international pressure in all institutions, particularly, but not solely, in the International Monetary Fund, in order to ensure transparent and efficient management of oil resources, in order to ensure that the increase in these resources translates into an equivalent improvement in the standard of living of the people of Equatorial Guinea.
Thank you, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place once the afternoon debates have been concluded.
The next item is a joint debate on the following five motions for resolutions on Chechnya: B5-0037/2003 by Mr Paasilinna and Mr Sakellariou, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists: non-extension of the OSCE mandate in Chechnya; B5-0041/2003 by Mr Suominen, Mr Oostlander and Mr Posselt, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: non-extension of the OSCE mandate in Chechnya; B5-0042/2003 by Mrs Malmström, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party: Chechnya; B5-0047/2003 by Mr Staes, Mr Wuori, Mrs Schroedter, Mr Cohn-Bendit, Mrs Isler Béguin and Mrs Hautala, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: the situation in Chechnya; B5-0049/2003 by Mrs Ainardi and Mr Vinci, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left: the situation in Chechnya.
However, in the case of Chechnya - and this applies to similar situations in the context of Iraq and other regions as well - we have always stressed that bombs, military aggression and military measures are unsuitable as a means of resolving the issue of terrorism.
We are deeply disappointed that people are being forced to return to this unsafe country and that even the expellees are being forcibly repatriated.
There are people there living in extraordinarily wretched conditions, both within Chechnya and outside.
In that context, the best the Russians could do was to postpone the visit of the European Parliament delegation to Chechnya.
The official reason for this is perhaps odd, but we hear through diplomatic channels that this is on account of the fact that security there absolutely cannot be guaranteed, something which the Russian state naturally views as a scandal, which it is.
It is therefore entirely possible that this man has been captured by the authorities themselves, as has happened in the past.
Fellow MEPs in various other parties have highlighted this and are completely behind it.
It is restrictive, and our group is inclined to think that the Danish government pursued a very good policy on this point.
The OSCE mission must be allowed to stay as an aid to that process, just as the Russians are in Kosovo.
The British Government, now considering a similar request, should tell the Russians that, on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the EU, we recognise the considered Danish decision and refuse his extradition to Russia.
Otherwise there is no point in having this principle of mutual recognition of national decisions within the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is, I believe, the third or fourth debate on Chechnya in one year.
We all know that, and the Russians must also have the courage to acknowledge it.
The situation in the refugee camps in Ingushetia is terrible.
We all know that our Russian colleagues are very dissatisfied with the resolutions we are adopting.
I therefore call on our Russian colleagues to resume the dialogue with our Parliament in order to engage with us in an honest and proper way and to ensure that we can ultimately bring the two parties together with a view to reaching a political solution.
Nonetheless, I appeal to those affected and the Russian Government not to retaliate with similar means but to seek a peaceful solution.
As a member of the European Parliament's ad hoc delegation on Chechnya, I am disappointed about the cancellation of our delegation visit, which had been confirmed with the Duma.
I am disappointed not only because we naturally wanted to gain our own impression of the local situation - and viewed this as a contribution towards further mutual understanding - but also because a basic political question arises here which has been answered in the negative.
We were informed that the reason for the postponement is the fact that Ahmed Zakayev had been released from detention in a European country and Parliament had adopted a resolution on this issue.
The third attempt to construct a wall of silence around Chechnya was the ending of the OSCE mission and the ejection of an international organisation which had made a major contribution to ending the previous Chechen war through a negotiated settlement.
On the other hand, there is a veritable colonial war, conducted by the Russian army, which finds expression in systematic searches on a huge scale, human rights violations, assassinations, abductions and, above all, the scandalous acquittal on 31 December 2002 of Colonel Yuri Budanov, charged with the rape and murder of an 18-year-old Chechen girl.
Mr President, unfortunately, we are partly responsible for the fact that atrocities and genocide are committed in other parts of the world, because the EU never seriously dares to tread on the toes of powers such as Russia, China, Iran or Israel.
It ought to go without saying that the OSCE should have its mandate extended, that international representatives should have access to Chechnya and that those who have committed serious crimes in Chechnya should be punished.
That is extremely serious, as it is also extremely serious to advocate a political solution on the one hand and, on the other, to support a referendum organised by the occupying power; to advocate political negotiations while, in practice, prohibiting Chechen parliamentarians or Ministers from entering our territory to meet politicians from our own countries in the European Parliament, European Commission or European Council, on the pretext that it would be impossible for them to do so.
Now, we are very well aware that, under Article 14(3), we have been able to draw up blacklists of Yugoslav or Belarussian politicians and that we are able to draw up a 'white list' of Chechen politicians.
I think we have already paid a sufficient price for what was done there.
Non-governmental organisations of recognised standing continue to report serious violations of human rights committed in Chechnya by the security forces working on behalf of the Russian Federation.
The result of the trial against Colonel Budanov is not a positive sign, but quite the opposite.
The European Commission is aware of the majority position of Parliament on these issues, and of its efforts to achieve the shared objectives that I have just mentioned.
Another very important matter is the considerable humanitarian aid provided by the European Union.
As you are aware, on 31 December, the mandate of the OSCE assistance group for Chechnya expired.
The Commission understands that maintaining this group is not only appropriate, but also in the interests of everyone, and especially of Russia.
The work of these international organisations seems to be even more necessary at present when the Russian Federation has the firm intention to take a series of steps towards the political normalisation of Chechnya.
Intensive negotiations are currently going on in Vienna with the aim of ensuring that the assistance group remains in Chechnya and the issue is being raised today in Athens amongst the political leaders of the Union and of Russia.
The debate is closed.
I therefore agree with the report, which aims to increase the EU's presence in regional fishing organisations (RFOs), and to conclude bilateral agreements and renew existing agreements.
We must conduct our external fisheries policy in a systematic and sustainable way.
This strand of the CFP cannot be overlooked within the EU's external policy (CFSP) and in its international trade policy.
Lastly, I wish to take this opportunity to express my regret at the recent confrontations that took place in the Algarve between Spanish fishermen and the Portuguese maritime authorities.
Despite having alerted the Spanish authorities, the Portuguese government has received no reply, which does nothing for the existing good relations between the two countries.
The purpose of the Community fleet's activity in non-Community waters is to supply the Community market, which has a shortfall in fishing products, and to preserve this activity in the Community's regions that depend on it, which tend, historically, to be least-favoured regions, lacking economic alternatives.
We hope, where this report is concerned, that the Commission communication will support launching the bases for a global analysis of the problems and needs of the European Union fleet in the territorial waters of third countries, focusing on two issues: how to achieve more coherent and more complete participation in the organisations governing international waters, in order to protect the legitimate interests of the Community; and how to secure a higher profile for the international dimension of the CFP within the Union's external policy.
It actually makes little sense to adopt measures such as abolishing structural aid or aid for scrapping vessels in the context of the CFP reform before defining the future EU position on the Community fleet.
