We also hope that additional Member States could adopt the euro as soon as they fulfil the criteria.
The strategic objectives defined by this Commission at the beginning of its mandate remain valid: 'prosperity, solidarity, security and a strong and open Europe in the world' still summarises the core ambitions of the Commission, and we are happy to see that both Parliament and the Council have backed us.
Properly managed labour migration can make a positive contribution to our economies and to our societies and we will present two draft directives in this field.
Let me now come back to the strategic objectives and give you a few examples of other key initiatives.
Ensuring internal and external coherence and fighting for a Europe with a strong voice in the world will be another key area for action.
The Commission will also work closely with Member States and partner countries to make sure that the European consensus on development makes good progress and strengthens our partnership with the African Union.
The Commission's strategic review on better regulation of November 2006 set out our political priorities in detail, taking into account the views expressed by the European Parliament in its April 2006 part-session, which was devoted to this issue.
If need be the Commission will be ready to come back and discuss better regulation in more detail with Parliament.
Let me also emphasise a novelty in our strategy for 2008.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is nice that you were able to come after all, Commissioner.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) is in principle prepared not only to give the Commission's work its political backing in Parliament, but also to go along with the objectives it defined at the beginning of its mandate: prosperity, solidarity, security and freedom.
Over all, you draw a comparatively rosy picture of this European Union, especially so far as the citizens' expectations are concerned.
You have our full political support in that.
We nevertheless hope that in its remaining time in office the Commission, together with the European Parliament, will be an even stronger driving force for the European Union's development.
Mr Nassauer is not wrong in saying why many people in Europe are sceptical about the European Union, the Commission and even the European Parliament.
It is also because the social dimension is underexposed in the Commission's work.
You admit it yourself: in the most recent documents you have published, whether about the internal market for the citizens or social reality stocktaking in Europe, you write quite clearly why this scepticism and this detachment have come about, saying that there is no point in the internal market unless the ecological and social consequences are seen and these aspects are also strengthened.
But when I look at the actual proposals, they contain too little of this social component.
Mr President, Commissioner, when discussing your paper, our group took the view that the Commission has found the right course and is pursuing that course with great confidence, sticking to the areas of policy that it defined at the start of its work, and that it is taking them forward in a way that gives the impression that it is acting with conviction.
In the 24 page working paper you devote all of three lines to Europe's future, but the question of where we are heading, what our common 'progress' should look like, is not answered, and this strategy for a work programme does not even attempt an answer.
As Mr Nassauer has already said, it is unfortunately not accepted by the public as much as we would like.
You speak, for example, of a renewed consensus on enlargement.
I would just like to mention one fundamental structural point that we have always raised in past debates.
If, for greater visibility for the policy of results, we can have these debates on strategy not only in the European Parliament, but also in the national parliaments, that would be an important step towards making clear where which policy comes from in the common Europe.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to address the question of how Europe is to find its way back to its citizens and to discuss climate and energy policy as an example.
I believe there has seldom been so much attention paid to the particular role and task of Europe as in the last few weeks, when everything has focused on the big question of climate protection policy and energy policy, that is on the biggest environmental policy issue of all.
I was very pleased with the outcome of the summit, because even though there is still a lot to negotiate in the small print the summit still achieved what the public expected after being made aware of the issues by Al Gore or the Stern report.
Finally, Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask what is happening about the announced withdrawals of legislative proposals.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the climate change initiative has been raised to the very top of the agenda.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, in actual fact, the way in which the Eurocracy, as a kind of enlightened despotism - always for the benefit of the people, of course - imposes its own will on the European peoples never ceases to amaze me.
In its policy strategy for 2008, the Commission has announced measures that should bring about a fresh immigration wave to Europe, even while its citizens are demanding the exact opposite.
The European Council has made a significant contribution in this area, and I hope that the Commission will succeed in converting these directives into practical and effective proposals.
This commitment affects us all, and I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the EU, which asks the Member States to make great efforts to reach the targets, should set a good example: with a single action - rationalising the Strasbourg seat - it would achieve not only a significant reduction in waste in terms of energy, paper, heating, lighting and moving thousands of people in cars, trains and aeroplanes every month, it would also send out a strong political message that would undoubtedly have a positive impact on our citizens.
It is unacceptable that documents intended for all EU citizens, such as websites and, in particular, information documents relating to European programmes, apart from notices, should be available in two or three languages only, effectively restricting access for many small communities to European Union funding.
Our question would be whether you believe that those resolutions, which we approved by an overwhelming majority in this House and which you received very warmly, have been incorporated into the annual political strategy document.
It seems to us that they have not been incorporated and that is a problem, Commissioner, because we always find ourselves in the same situation: Parliament draws up a series of guidelines that should be taken into account in the next budgetary procedure, you lay out your political priorities in this annual political strategy document, you add a budgetary component, but you do not take any notice, or at least you do not take sufficient notice, of everything Parliament asked for the year before.
We have yet to find a perfect balance between the budgetary procedures and the European Commission's legislative programme and therefore our two institutions often work in parallel, but we have not yet managed to bring our systems into line.
Otherwise, what we have are surveys of the social situation and of the way in which labour law operates.
There are all kinds of surveys, but few practical proposals.
Allow me to mention two proposals concerning areas in which I think fairly practical initiatives could be taken.
In these areas, Commission initiatives are conspicuous by their absence.
My advice to the Commission is not just to talk about the social dimension but to deliver, for example when it comes to information, consultation and issues concerning the working environment. (Applause) (HU) The foreign policy ambitions of the European Union are impressive.
We expect that the 2008 budget will support the process of enlargement and the successful preparation of candidate countries and potential candidate countries more effectively than did those of the past.
We have little money, and so we must use what we have in an effective and visible manner that focuses on priorities. (PL) Mr President, paper is a very tolerant medium.
For example, in the very introduction to the document on the Union's Annual Political Strategy 2008 there is mention of the initiative to create a European Institute for Technology.
I agree with the previous speaker who stated that the issue of the South Caucasus countries and their progress towards possible future membership of the European Union should be given greater prominence in this document. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the Europe of 27, there are few political organisations that claim to work in such a transparent and structured way as the EU itself.
From the point of view of budgetary control, 2008 will be another disappointing year.
We note the lack of management measures and proposed approaches to implementing the promise Commissioner Kallas made in 2005 to obtain an unqualified Statement of Assurance on the EU budget from the European Court of Auditors by 2009.
It is consistent with our priorities, which are the Lisbon Strategy, the fight against climate change and its effects, judicial cooperation and so on, but it overlooks the importance of the social dimension and of social cohesion in the future of the Union.
To be more precise, with regard to competitiveness, growth and employment, if the margin is left unchanged - at EUR 70 million - if new priorities are announced regarding Frontex and Eurojust and if three new transport agencies are created, then certain policies are liable to suffer: I am thinking of the seventh FRDP, which could have difficulties in getting off the ground; I am thinking of the trans-European transport network, funding for which is absolutely crucial; I am thinking of all those social policies that are not yet sufficiently developed; and I am thinking of the CIP, which is a vital tool of the Lisbon Strategy.
It is not only European growth that is at stake here, but also our objectives regarding competitiveness, employment and solidarity.
As regards the freedom, security and justice policies, the margin of EUR 32 million is very small.
The Europe of democracy is at a standstill, the citizens are turning their backs on it and our texts are more and more ambitious.
I got a puncture and unfortunately there is not enough hot air in Strasbourg to keep things going!
And just two other things: I am surprised that there appear to be no policy initiatives at all in the area of the knowledge society and information technology, despite the fact that there is a large and important work programme in progress.
This is what they miss in these proposals.
I should like to take this one step further and say that Europe should be more social not only within Europe, but also outside it.
In actual fact, our counterparts from developing countries have the feeling that we are prizing open their markets rather than placing their development at the heart of our policy.
You should not only defend, but also promote fundamental rights.
There is a distinct imbalance there.
I also have a very practical proposal, which you do not even have to include in your strategic programme.
In the context of 2007, the year of equal opportunities, I would like to ask Commissioner Barroso to do a personal chat session with European citizens on the issue of discrimination and fundamental rights.
After all, Europe - particularly the Commission, of course - is judged on the extent to which it backs up its words with action.
This is strongly reminiscent of clientele politics for the benefit of certain regions of the world. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I was pleased to hear the Commissioner expressing a desire for cooperation between the European Commission and the European Parliament.
I am especially interested, however, in the Commission's statements and actions aimed at supporting and protecting fundamental rights, with particular reference to the rights of children, including a forum on the rights of children.
They need our help. (FI) Mr President, the Commission's communication on the annual political strategy contains some fairly new moves, especially in the areas of energy policy, immigration and the simplification of administration.
The costs of these next year would be in excess of EUR 20 million.
We are not preventing yet and that must be our agenda in 2008 and beyond.
The truth is that 2008 is going to be a key year in terms of moving forward the debate on the new budget for the European Union, which should accompany the constitutional advances that we trust will be consolidated during this year.
Mr Juncker has said this and all of the ministers have agreed.
I want to refer to two areas that I know well.
I make these remarks now, in particular, while Commissioner Wallström is here, because it is of course you, Commissioner, who must convey this message.
It is said that new political priorities will require just under 1 500 more staff by 2008, just under 900 of whom will be new employees - some of them employed as a result of enlargement - while the remainder are to be obtained from re-prioritising.
I am always somewhat doubtful as to whether urban transport is within our remit, but the Vice-President is absolutely right about one thing: urban transport accounts for a large proportion of pollution.
When you combine that with a sound consumer policy, as Mrs Kuneva is doing right now, I think you can prove that the single market has been a success story.
I would like to start by commenting on the procedure and the dialogue that we have started between Parliament and the Commission on the annual policy strategy.
I think that the political groups should discuss the annual policy strategy in exactly the same way as the different committees do.
I would also like to comment on the issue of migration, because we in the Barroso Commission firmly believe that properly managed labour migration can make a very positive contribution to our economies and to our societies.
If we look at the number of regulations, directives, decisions and recommendations adopted over the past 10 years, it has only once topped 550 and has only once dropped below 430.
The average has been some 489 proposals a year, and last year, at 474, we were very close to that average.
We take the whole issue of simplification seriously and, as you know, we have set out a very ambitious simplification programme of 100 proposals, covering about 220 legislative instruments to be repealed, codified, recast or reviewed over the next three years.
In some cases, it means that we can introduce new legislation and, at the same time, abandon or scrap directives, as we did with REACH, where the 40 existing directives were replaced by a single one.
We also have to be careful to ensure that our legislation is up to date and modern and that we get rid of legislation that is outdated.
Some Members raised the issue of the link between our debate on the annual policy strategy and the budgetary process.
But the institutional framework is such that there is seldom a direct link between the policy initiatives undertaken in a given year and related expenditure in the same year.
There is a kind of mismatch between those processes.
As you know, the 2008 budget will finance actions deriving from legislative proposals presented in previous years.
These were proposals that the co-legislators approved in 2007 or earlier.
The Commission strongly believes that the new framework agreement put in place in 2005 actually provides a solid basis for relations.
I will pass on to President Barroso and the Commission the idea of holding a chat forum on fundamental rights.
The dialogue that we have engaged in - including more than 350 visits by Commissioners to national parliaments, engaging with their different committees, responding to questions, being heard by the national parliaments - is, I think, absolutely crucial in making sure that the European agenda is also anchored in national parties, in the democratic traditions of each and every Member State.
We also need political leaders in all the Member States to be able to defend what they have been doing at European level and to say why they have come to certain decisions.
We want the European Union to deliver and we want results that respond to the needs and expectations of citizens all over Europe.
It means simplification, more focused action; it means clearer communication, informing citizens and listening more attentively to them; and it also means strengthening the European Union's institutions by completing the Treaty revision.
The debate is closed.
