Prevention and settlement of conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings (debate) The next item is the report by Renate Weber, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and of the Kingdom of Sweden for adoption of a Council framework decision 2009/.../JHA on prevention and settlement of conflicts of exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings (08535/2009 - C7-0205/2009 -.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, as this is the first time that I have spoken before this new Parliament, I would like to congratulate you on being elected to the Vice-Presidency.
As far as the Weber report is concerned, I speak on behalf of Vice-President Barrot and I would like first of all to thank the rapporteur and the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for the excellent quality of their work.
The Commission is, by and large, in favour of the proposal presented by five Member States, although the text is not as ambitious as it would have wished.
The Commission also regrets the fact that the obligation to refer to Eurojust cases where there is a conflict of jurisdiction has been limited and that the list of criteria which must be taken into account to determine the most appropriate jurisdiction has been removed from the operative part of the text.
The Commission will also consider this in the light of the changes made in this area by the Treaty of Lisbon, which I hope will enter into force as soon as possible.
Having said that, I would like to call on the European Commission to present at the earliest opportunity a proposal completing this Framework Decision on the conflicts of jurisdiction.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Madam President, I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the very good cooperation we have had in this matter.
The second matter relates to another proposed amendment which extends the competence of Eurojust beyond that provided in Article 4 of the Eurojust decision.
We believe that this matter, if it is to be discussed, should be approached in relation to the Eurojust decision via the main door.
However, there are no key points, so we will vote for the report as we want to encourage the exchange of information between national authorities.
It should also rule out the possibility of multiple decisions being issued in respect of one and the same case.
The progressive alliance of socialists and democrats therefore supports the draft, although we are insisting on the provision of sufficient protection for persons involved in criminal proceedings and, at the same time, a stronger role for Eurojust and greater efficiency for the mechanism as a whole. (NL) Madam President, the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) sees no good in this proposal.
The PVV asks itself where this is all heading.
When there is a 'positive' conflict of jurisdiction between different Member States, this must be resolved as swiftly as possible, in order to protect citizens and avoid any risk of infringing the legal principle of ne bis in idem.
Moving on to other issues, Mrs Weber also urges the Commission to put forward as soon as possible an additional proposal, complementing the framework decision, to establish rules for the resolution of 'negative' conflicts of jurisdiction. (RO) I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur for the fine job she has done.
The exchange of information between authorities is certainly important, but it is equally important that the act of administering justice does not become so bogged down in red tape that the level of protection which any individual freedom should enjoy is reduced. (RO) I wish to congratulate the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur for the fine job they have done.
I welcome this initiative on a framework decision on prevention and settlement of conflicts of exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings.
I believe that Eurojust should only be involved where the parties fail to reach a common agreement.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 8 October 2009.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - The Hague Programme addresses the case of conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal matters.
Four EU Member States tabled specific proposals with the aim of preventing and settling conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings.
The issue relates to when the same person or persons are subject to criminal proceedings in different Member States in respect of the same facts.
This may lead to the infringement of the judicial principle ne bis in idem (a person cannot be tried again if he has already been tried).
