The recent adoption of the European economic recovery plan by the Commission on 26 November last year also breaks new ground as far as governance and budgetary coordination is concerned.
The recovery plan recognises the inherent division of tasks embedded into the EU economic policy framework.
At the present time we know which EU Member States would like to join the euro area as soon as possible but unfortunately do not fulfil all the criteria required by the Treaty - the Baltic states, Hungary and others - and we know that there are two EU Member States, namely the UK and Denmark, that got an opt-out so that they can be excluded from the responsibility of all EU Member States to prepare themselves and their economies to join the euro area one day.
Those who have not yet joined the euro area realise that the advantages are much bigger and much more important than the responsibilities they must bear as members of the euro area, or the difficulties.
We have support measures in place that can be activated to support the dairy sector and we have already taken action.
Contrary to the normal situation, where the private storage scheme for butter is normally activated on 1 March, we have decided to activate the scheme from 1 January, which means that the production that has taken place in December is also eligible for this scheme.
Intervention buying or granting export refunds are other instruments that are available to support the dairy sector or the dairy market efficiently.
I would also like to remind you of the situation back in 2007.
That is what we see now, due to the fact that an increase in quotas is a possibility for Member States or for farmers to produce but it is certainly not an obligation.
Perhaps the biggest reason is the fact that the Russian market is of huge importance for the European Union and just recently we have seen a huge devaluation taking place in the economic sector in Russia, which means that prices for the Russian consumer have increased dramatically.
The fact is that the health check does not start until 1 January 2010, with all the different tools available to support the different sectors.
However, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, adopted on 16 December 2008, did provide for a budget of EUR 1 billion under heading 4 of the budget for the period 2008-2010.
I am able to tell you that an initial package of approximately EUR 300 million, involving 24 to 25 countries, will be presented in February, while the general plan for the use of the entire facility will in any case be presented by the Commission and adopted by 1 May 2009.
In addition, where access to capital proves to be a significant limitation for microfinance institutions, for example where a microfinance institution wants to develop its services in rural areas, the Commission can fund the capital needs of these institutions through specialised financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank (EIB), using credits to grant loans or to contribute to the capital.
Member of the Commission. - I have two questions today on the budget reform, one more general and one more concentrated on agricultural matters.
I am very happy to have at least two questions because we were asking for more interest from Parliament.
The third element is the rigidity of our budget.
This is the least attractive question we usually receive because it is sometimes treated as being too technical.
So, is the negative response to agriculture unduly influenced by the document itself? (RO) I would like to mention the fact that 2009 is the European Year of Creativity and Innovation.
Member of the Commission. - So, three additional questions.
This is also included in our recovery plan.
It is a very sensible question on CAP in general.
We tried to be as objective as possible.
Finally, on agriculture, the consultation shows a relative growth consensus on the need to further reform CAP.
I would like you to bear those in mind as we go forward. (SV) I have a short question to ask the Commissioner.
Personally, I would like it to be prepared earlier - maybe in the spring.
It was precisely for this reason that in our recovery plan the Commission proposed investing those EUR 5 billion in strategic structural changes to energy inter-connections and other energy infrastructure projects and so far countries are in no hurry and are not very willing to discuss this matter.
I hope very much that this crisis will be one of those lessons, which Europe should take very seriously.
The 2007 communication entitled 'Towards a general policy on the fight against cyber crime' enabled the Commission to promote information sharing in the field of cybercrime between Member States' law enforcement authorities, either bilaterally or through Europol.
This strategy proposes a series of measures aimed at fostering cooperation between Member States to fight against crimes such as child pornography, terrorism, attacks on information systems and fraud.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council of 8 December 2008 made recommendations on public-private cooperation against cybercrime.
The Commission also wants to set up a European financial coalition against commercial images of child pornography.
This is the case with Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA on attacks against information systems and Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
You are right; we must also learn the way in which young people are enticed to certain sites, leaving them at risk of being attacked in some way by the creators of these sites and those who visit them.
If we reach agreement on the funding in the comitology procedure, I hope to launch this coalition in February 2009.
The Framework Decision of 18 December 2006, known as the Swedish decision, which all Member States had to implement by mid-December 2008, that is, very recently, creates a common legal framework for the rapid exchange of information and intelligence between Member States' law enforcement authorities.
Another example is the 'Prüm' Council Decision of 23 June 2008 which sets out a detailed mechanism for exchanging specific types of data, including fingerprints, DNA profiles and information linked to vehicle registration, all of which can lead to successful criminal investigations.
In particular, Judge Jean-Louis Bruguière has been given the task of monitoring the SWIFT terrorist finance tracking programme.
Examples of this include the Aeneas programme, which funded over 100 projects from 2004 to 2006, or the Migration and Asylum programme that succeeded it, which was allocated a budget of EUR 205 million for the period 2007-2010.
Lastly, the Integration Fund and the Return Fund can of course help Member States to introduce pre-departure measures in third countries to assist potential emigrants in finding work in their country of destination, and facilitate their civic and cultural integration, or, on the reverse side, to introduce short-term support measures for returnees.
You are right, some Member States have concluded bilateral agreements, but this should also be the case for the whole of Europe, and you were right to emphasise the risks of illegal immigration caused by a failure to organise legal migration successfully.
Next, the case that you mentioned, Mr Burke, is a case that clearly shows the wisdom needed in return policy.
Member of the Commission. - Firstly I should clarify that the Commission does not pursue as a general objective the opening of closed professions.
By 28 December 2009 Member States will have to present to the Commission their report on the results of this screening and evaluation exercise.
The Services Directive has in its scope all of the services in the European Union with certain limited exceptions.
On the question of mutual evaluation which is required under the Services Directive, each Member State has to go through all its rules and regulations before 28 December this year and then we will have a mutual evaluation to see what is proportionate and what is not.
She will be aware that we have, in one form or another, some actions pertaining to at least 15 Member States at this particular time.
We are also inundated with lots of other possible infringements in this area.
The financial crisis shed a new light on CRAs.
Since August 2007 the financial markets worldwide suffered from a major confidence crisis.
A modernised approach to policies set out in the single market review of November 2007 needs to be pursued further as foreseen.
The 16 December 2008 progress report called 'The Single Market review: one year on' highlights a series of recently adopted measures that will help create the conditions to relaunch the European economy.
It is also evident that we need to restructure the European regulatory and supervisory framework in order to minimise the risk of future crises.
