We launched the debate on 24 January 2007 and since then we have received lots of very valuable input, not least from the European Parliament and the report of Mrs Salinas García.
On crisis prevention and management, I agree with you that it is one of the most sensitive points of the reform and I should like to thank you for the ideas that you propose in your opinion.
Nevertheless, I want to underline that we also need to bear in mind that any modification of the current proposal has to respect the overall budgetary constraints, as well as the need for simplification.
You are also in favour of a separate payment for tomatoes for historical producers in the new Member States.
Finally, on promotion of fruit and vegetables, I fully agree with you that this issue is of huge concern not only to agriculture but also to health and to consumer policies.
I would be in favour of a school fruit scheme to be implemented in line with the position taken by the Commission on 13 May 2007 in the White Paper on a strategy for Europe on nutrition, weight and obesity-related health issues.
The report that we are debating today and that we will vote on tomorrow is the result of a long period of work.
It is an open report, and I believe that this Parliament's position has always been open with regard to the Commission.
We are calling for the strengthening of producer organisations, in the way that has already been mentioned: increasing their funding to 6%.
I would like to end by thanking everybody who has helped me during this year of work, the shadow rapporteurs and all of the officials from the European Commission for their contributions, for cooperating with me, the committee secretariat and everybody, because I believe that the report that we will vote on tomorrow, which is the result of a broad consensus, has also been enriched by the contributions of the other groups and of the whole of society.
I should like to congratulate Mrs Salinas García on a very objective report, which covers many issues of importance for both old and new Member States.
The reform must include effective solutions for this sector, bearing in mind the need to ensure that growing this fruit in the Community will remain profitable and that Community growers can obtain a suitable level of income from it.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur.
The market of horticultural products is increasingly being dominated by large supermarkets and other trade organisations, and producers must combine forces in order to form a counterweight.
After the last conference on this subject, I left in a frame of mind that was anything but optimistic, but I am heartened by the fact that an amendment concerning the need for a quality label for horticultural products, tabled by the ALDE Group, was adopted unanimously in the Agricultural Group by all parties.
I am unaware of the latest developments as regards school fruit, but we thought the Commissioner's idea in this respect was endearing.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, this reform is justified but it is unfair.
The reform of the fruit and vegetable market is one example of this.
We respect the Accession Treaties, but new principles must be introduced, transcending the division into 15 more favoured Member States and 12 less favoured ones.
All 27 Member States must enjoy the same rights.
The heated debates within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development about this proposal identified certain risks associated with the substance of the proposal and, in particular, risks arising from the philosophy behind this piece of legislation.
Mrs Gräßle of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will table an oral amendment tomorrow in which she will ask the Commission not to wait until the scheduled date of 2013 before compiling an initial report on the execution of the title covering producer organisations, the operating fund and the operational programmes.
It is therefore our responsibility to safeguard the future of Europe's fruit and vegetable growers by creating a safety net with the aid of targeted assistance in order to combine sustainable production with high quality and a healthy environment. (EL) Mr President, first I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Salinas Garcia, on her exceptional report, and the Commission, which truly has made a serious and brave proposal in the fruit and vegetable sector.
Firstly, a stable financial budget and, secondly, a stable timeframe for reform up to 2013.
A general payout scheme is being offered as a proposed solution for reform of the fruit and vegetable market.
The requirement for fruit and vegetable producers to establish producer organisations in order to receive EU subsidies seriously distorts the fruit and vegetable market.
In its Amendment 116 to the regulation the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development suggests aid amounting to EUR 120.77 per hectare.
Aid should be increased to EUR 400 per hectare.
That is why I urge the House to adopt Amendment 113, which constitutes a response to all those hoping for aid. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I am delighted that you are here and I thank you for the efforts you are making.
The fruit and vegetable sector is extremely important for us.
Finally, I have the following to say: I should like to point out that we are totally against the oral amendment which may be tabled tomorrow calling for a report to be drafted in 2010 on the operation of the new COM, because this means a different approach to fruit and vegetables, while the other COMs have been regulated quite differently.
This would be a very good reform if I did not come from one of the new Member States.
This is a very great injustice toward the new Member States, and I ask that it be rectified. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Salinas García's report is very significant for the agricultural production sector.
Amendments 6, 7 and 12 to the regulation concerning Recitals 11, 13 and 18 and also Amendment 113 are particularly worthy of support. (PL) Mr President, today's debate on the report concerning reform of the fruit and vegetable market and tomorrow's vote on the matter bring to an end several months of work within the European Parliament.
We are therefore requesting special payments for growers of soft fruit and cherries intended for processing, so as to improve incomes and stabilise the fruit and vegetable market.
I urge the Commissioner to study Amendment 132, which I tabled jointly with Mrs Herranz García on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Commissioner, we earnestly hope that at the forthcoming Council of Agriculture Ministers of the 27 Member States of the European Union you will propose appropriate support for this group of farmers.
I trust the negotiations will prove fruitful. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the support given by Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to the proposals contained in the Salinas García report is proof of, firstly, the rapporteur's excellent work - and I add my own congratulations - and, secondly the very positive spirit of compromise displayed by MEPs from almost all of the political groups.
I particularly welcome Parliament's recommendations on crisis management and on strengthening producer organisations.
I welcome the adoption of my proposal to establish a transitional period aimed at ensuring the continued viability of tomato cultivation in some Member States, in particular my country, Portugal.
I am disappointed, however, that it was not possible to go further on other equally important issues, such as greater flexibility in the management of financial resources earmarked for operational programmes and positive discrimination, which should have been given to the Member States in which those programmes are particularly poorly organised.
Your speech at the start of this debate, Commissioner, made me fear that the aspect of Parliament's political support for the proposals has not been correctly interpreted, but I trust that common sense and a spirit of compromise will ultimately prevail in the Council and the Commission. - (PL) Mr President, the fruit and vegetable sector is very important for the agriculture of the Union in general and of countries like Poland in particular.
Secondly, there is no tradition of producers' groups in the new Member States.
This is bound to mean that a sum of almost EUR 700 million a year will go mainly to producers' groups and associations in the old Member States.
The European Union has an annual trade deficit in excess of EUR 8 billion in this sector.
After you launched your debate on this particular subject we had farmers in Ireland on television declaring that they would no longer grow fruit and vegetables because there was no profit to be made in it because they could not get the prices they needed.
I hope that this report which we propose for 2010 will look at the impact in terms of the balance of power, which currently lies in the wrong direction.
I am ready to take into account the sensitivity of the sector and to try to find money within the budget to support this sector for a transitional period.
The debate is closed.
In 2005, the old Member States (EU-15) received EUR 561 per hectare, whilst the new ones (EU-10) only received EUR 20 per hectare.
The new Member States have introduced many important and specific products into the Union.
Discriminatory action against the new Member States on the fruit and vegetable market is detrimental not only to growers in the new Member States, but also to the Union as a whole and to its consumers.
