Airport capacity and ground handling (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Jensen, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on Airport capacity and ground handling: towards a more efficient policy.
The capacity problems at Europe's airports are not only a national problem but also a European one, and consequently I welcome the Commission's action plan and 14-point plan as an initial step towards improving capacity at Europe's airports.
The master plan is to be an instrument, or method, to ensure that Member States coordinate their initiatives to promote and expand airport capacity.
I should like to thank both the Commission and the spokespeople of the other political groups - Mr El Khadraoui, Mr Jarzembowski, Mr López-Istúriz White and Mrs Lichtenberger - for their extremely constructive cooperation on this report, and I am pleased that Parliament is able to present a clear message showing widespread support in the matters of both capacity and liberalisation of the 'ground handling' Directive.
Airport congestion itself can have a negative impact on the environment if aeroplanes are left in a holding pattern, resulting in unnecessary CO2 emissions.
I hope that this report will inspire the Commission to proceed with both the 'ground handling' Directive and the 14-point plan.
On 2 October the Committee on Transport and Tourism adopted conclusions, Madam President, that are less ambitious than the conclusions of Parliament.
I thank her, and I also wish to thank the Committee on Transport and Tourism for the quality of its work and for helping us move forward on this issue, which is so important in terms of the harmonious sustainable development of the entire air transport sector.
In order for good professional standards to be maintained at all Europe's airports, the European Parliament adopted a decision back in 1996 to the effect that besides the airport operators, only those service providers which could operate efficiently on a lasting basis would be licensed to work in airports.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, I should like to congratulate Mrs Jensen on her excellent work.
Technical and organisational issues are very important in relation to airport capacity.
In a nutshell, these links are vital to a region's development.
Airports are also important in terms of job creation.
The Member States, regional and local authorities must ensure that airports, regardless of their governing bodies, are included in regional spatial planning plans and national development strategies.
There are cases within the Union where fairly large conurbations located less than 100 kilometres apart each have separate airports.
Finally, I should like to say on the basis of my own experience and my constituents' statements, that issues relating to airport capacity involve much more than technical matters, air traffic control systems and coordinating take-offs and landings.
I want to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Anne Jensen, in particular on her willingness to engage in dialogue and consensus when drawing up this report.
It concerns technology.
You know that there is a public call for tenders every seven years: the ground handling companies can be replaced by others, but the personnel have no guarantees that they will be taken on.
In my speech I would like to present my thoughts on the 'ground handling' Directive.
However, it is necessary to consider that a state monopoly of all ground handling services existed in the post-Soviet states until recent times.
Mr President, the Jensen report is a sound and thorough overview of the issues related to airport capacity and ground handling.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report draws attention to some of the problems, notably congestion, which we, as people who have to fly fairly frequently, very often experience but which naturally affect aviation as a whole, not just business flights but holiday flights as well.
I would like to thank the rapporteur particularly for attempting to reconcile two positions which emerged in the committee on this issue.
As far as ground handling services are concerned, we will indeed have to wait for a new evaluation by the Commission in which all Member States are included.
The main purpose of a master plan is to promote international cooperation between all parties concerned, so that integrated solutions can be found for specific problem areas through good consultations and with respect for existing authorities.
We may not agree about the methodology or timescales involved, Mrs Lichtenberger, but in principle, we agree that the aviation sector should make its contribution to mitigating environmental impacts.
That is why our approach is right: we are requesting the Commission to put forward a coherent proposal on how we can have a European master plan and how we can introduce best practice so that we can all learn from each other and pursue this expansion effectively.
I also believe that it is extremely important to strengthen all the intelligence systems in this area, starting with the CESAR traffic management system, that are going to help us not only to improve traffic but also, as far as possible, to reduce its environmental impact.
I am not sure that the call in the report to accompany the growth of air transport by measures limiting its external cost is quite enough, because we know there is a lot we can and must do to at least moderate aviation growth to a sustainable level - whether through emissions trading, proper and fair taxation, building high-speed rail alternatives and so on - in order to combat global warming and safeguard against the dangers of air pollution and noise nuisance.
This report must be seen in the light of that resolution, and not in any way - and I am sure it is not the intention, at least of the rapporteur - giving comfort to this idea that you simply build airports based on predictions, many of them from airlines, about increased demand, without all the other measures that we know we need to take to have sustainable aviation. (SV) The report on airport capacity and ground handling is an own-initiative report with high-flying plans as regards central planning on the part of the EU.
This is why I believe that the European programmes, such as Caesar and Clear Sky, will bring important contributions to the development of the European air sector.
Unfortunately, big airports are crowded, there are very many flight delays, there is waiting time either on ground or in the air, which, on the one hand, contributes to pollution and, on the other hand, has certain social effects.
This is why I believe it is important for the Member States - and I also refer to the new Member States - to be assisted in using the structural funds, the regional development funds for developing new airports.
The approach of the need for additional airport capacities in Europe should be part of a strategy for the development of the passenger and goods air transport, not only in a European and continental context, but also an a larger scale.
Also, directives and regulations regarding airports should remain within the standards established and accepted by Annex No. 14 of the Chicago Convention.
The third concerns ground handling services, which must be effective and productive.
In relation to the new Member States, we have requested precise information on an airport-by-airport basis in relation to the number of providers, their dependence on the airport and the conditions for the award of contracts, and if we are not satisfied with the replies we can always invoke the infringement proceedings that apply in such cases.
I would be tempted to say yes, but in the medium and long term.
The solution is therefore to reorganise airport traffic in an environmentally conscious way.
in writing. - (RO) The tremendous increase in air traffic intensifies problems related to congestion in airports and overloads the traffic control systems.
Solving these problems requires a long-term strategic approach, especially for building new capacities or extending the existent ones.
