The first reason is, primarily, the increased population growth in third countries.
The second is insufficient production of food and poor distribution.
The fourth is the Common Agricultural Policy, which has resulted in significant reductions in food production in new Member States.
Increased demand for food and increased affluence of the inhabitants in fast-growing countries such as India or China have also had an impact on rising food prices.
What is most important, however, is to undertake steps aimed at improving the situation on food markets, not just by ad hoc activities, but actions that will lead to long-term stability.
Too little attention has been given to stability in production levels and to maintaining appropriate quantities of reserves, which would limit the effects of fluctuations in production levels caused by climate change or other factors. (PL) Mr President, as regards the report on the increase in food prices in the European Union, I voted in favour of amendment 21 and against amendment 28.
I would, however, like to draw attention to the fact that, in a Europe where children are going hungry, it is unacceptable to have production limits and quotas on food production and I would ask the European Commission to consider this issue again.
During the parliamentary work there is a report prepared by Mrs Zimmer on poverty in Europe, particularly as regards child poverty, including malnutrition among European children.
On the one hand, there is the rule that since the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty in 1999 the Council has been responsible for establishing the rules on EU visa policy.
I welcome the European Parliament's resolution on negotiations between the European Union and the United States, which is the result of intense debates in the European Parliament.
I trust that the resolution will banish all doubts about the legitimate efforts of the new Member States to eliminate the differences between the old and new Member States of the European Union. (PL) Mr President, the principles of solidarity, cooperation and non-discrimination as regards nationality are fundamental to the European Union.
The issue of visa restrictions particularly affects the new Member States which, although they themselves do not apply restrictions or other requirements as regards the United States, cannot, as can be seen, count on reciprocity from that country.
What is needed here are detailed regulations covering all EU countries.
I should point out that if the visa policy of the United States does not change, this will certainly affect transatlantic relations. (PL) Mr President, the problem of animal disease is growing and there are several reasons for this.
The second is a lack of measures to combat animal diseases effectively.
The second undoubtedly depends on the necessary funds being made available from the European Union budget for combating animal diseases.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (PT) Due to the delay in implementing the new structural programmes and subsequently the operational programmes presented by Member States, appropriations totalling EUR 3 525 million from the 2007 EU budget for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) have not been used.
Part of this amount has already been carried forward to the 2008 budget, but EUR 2 034 million have yet to be used.
in writing. - (PL) The second amendment that was introduced into the budget for 2008 contains, as usual, several elements that have no logical connection with each other.
It is completely justifiable to include in the 2008 budget unused ERDF, EAFRD and EFF structural funds (totalling EUR 771.6 million), which corresponds with both the wording and the spirit of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 2006, when we anticipated delays in the implementation of the new Financial Perspective.
in writing. - (IT) The strategic attempt to revive European competitiveness, proposed in the Lisbon strategy and reiterated recently at the Competitiveness Council of November 2007, has led the EU to intensify its efforts to enhance European potential for innovation and growth in the face of world competition.
in writing. - The Fine Gael Delegation in the EPP-ED welcomes Ms Jordan-Cizeli's report on a mid-term review of industrial policy.
in writing. - (PT) The European Parliament report, following the communication from the European Commission, moreover, overlooks the enormous social impact of existing industries and perpetuates a neoliberal approach that may guarantee high profits for large enterprises but does not ensure employment with rights and improvements in people's quality of life.
This is in the interests only of the large economic groups, since it may jeopardise micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and a high percentage of jobs.
This in turn may affect the income of workers and many small-scale business people, and therefore their activity as consumers.
Improving the regulatory framework, particularly as regards patents, so as to facilitate access to the internal market and to foster European entrepreneurship are key factors for increasing our industrial competitiveness.
in writing. - (PL) Industrial policy is of considerable importance for the realisation of the objectives of the Lisbon strategy.
Calculated on a per capita basis, small companies incur, on average, costs that are ten times higher than those of large companies as regards the responsibilities imposed by legal regulations.
in writing. - The European Training Foundation plays a valuable role in the development of vocational training systems in third countries.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan sympathises with many parts of the report.
in writing. - (PT) Recent developments in the situation in Lebanon cannot be analysed in isolation from the deterioration of the situation in the Middle East, where interference, intervention and military occupation by the United States and its allies are escalating with the aim of establishing control over this strategic region.
The resolution also focuses on political positions whose objective is to meddle in Lebanon's internal affairs, disregarding the fact that the deterioration in the situation in the Middle East is due primarily to Israel's military occupation of Palestinian, Syrian and even Lebanese territory.
in writing. - The situation in Lebanon is preoccupying.
While the vote is yet to be made on the nomination of General Michel Sleiman as president, signs that all sides are prepared to negotiate are encouraging.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote for the resolution, since rising food prices are a problem for the supply of food around the world.
in writing. - (PT) I must point out a contradiction between this European Parliament resolution and the proposed revision of the common agricultural policy that the Commissioner responsible for agriculture presented here this week.
It was particularly shocking that the Commissioner should totally disregard the social drama and strong impact of the soaring food prices recorded in recent months - exacerbated by abandonment of the land and the disappearance of many thousands of farms - and push for a cut in the meagre support received by around 70 000 Portuguese smallholders by proposing a minimum threshold while forgetting to indicate a maximum one.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution to support particularly paragraphs 16 and 35 that call for the developed world to clamp down on agricultural subsidies.
The call by French agriculture minister, Michel Barnier, for Europe to establish a food security plan and resist further cuts in Europe's agriculture budget is ill-thought out.
This could help the world's 100 million people in poor countries who would otherwise be pushed deeper into poverty.
The market is conditioned by unprecedented concentrations of people in urban areas, abandonment of agriculture for the tertiary sector and the use of basic food products in other complex elements of the food chain, such as livestock.
This current state of affairs is particularly worrying in the context of the developing world.
As this resolution points out, the priority of the international community should be to ensure food autonomy and self sufficiency for developing countries.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the resolution on rising food prices in the European Union and in developing countries.
This is a problem that affects the whole world.
in writing. - 850 million people across the world go hungry everyday.
Indeed, this crisis is of a global scale and much needs to be done in developing countries.
We should therefore be focusing on helping developing countries in areas such as agriculture, rural development and agribusiness.
I voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - (FR) At a time of extremely worrying food price surges it is more necessary than ever for the European Parliament to adopt a resolution.
The demographic situation in the developing countries has increased the demand for food drastically, but ongoing military conflicts, the fight against deadly diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis as well as ineffective administration have distracted the governments of developing countries from responding to this need.
in writing. - (SV) The resolution on rising food prices in the world could have been a valuable contribution to the current debate on the EU's agricultural policy and its consequences.
in writing. - (DE) The rise in food prices absolutely must be halted, otherwise we are heading for serious difficulties.
The poor countries that are hardest hit by rising prices must be given help to overcome the crisis as quickly as possible in a well-organised and, above all, sustainable manner.
Major exporters of agricultural products, such as Argentina and the United States, must act globally in this respect and must not focus solely on their own well-being.
In the debate on biofuels, it must not be forgotten that their production in Europe, where fuel crops are grown on two per cent of all arable land, has an extremely minimal effect on food prices.
These negotiations must be conducted rapidly and in a spirit of European unity, so that in 2009 all Member States will be able to participate in the USA's reformed Visa Waiver Programme.
in writing. - The adoption of the 'Motion for a resolution on negotiations between the European Union and the United States with regard to visa exemptions' is welcomed by the EPP-ED.
It marks an important step in coordinating activities of Member States and the European Commission in their negotiations with the United States.
in writing. - (PT) We understand from this resolution: That although the EU has signed reciprocity agreements with several third countries but not with the US - which is why in 2006 the Commission proposed the temporary restoration of the visa requirement for holders of diplomatic and duty/official passports in order to expedite progress towards reciprocity with that country - the Council did not follow up that proposal, which the resolution describes as symbolic.
The US government and the governments of those countries that have already embarked on bilateral negotiations should take into account the position of the EU and its competence to sign treaties.
Unfortunately, as regards Poland, which unilaterally removed visa requirements for US citizens as long ago as 15 April 1991, the asymmetry is glaring.
in writing. - Europe's citizens have come together to enjoy the benefits of a European Union which can express itself not only in Europe but without.
Whilst I understand the legitimate right of the USA to make up its own mind on the issue, I feel there is a rational argument in favour of extending this right to all of the EU's citizens.
I voted for the oral amendment proposed by the socialist Member of Parliament Lambrinidis, because he requests the exclusion of any form of direct or indirect discrimination among European citizens, including based on nationality.
I also voted for amendment 8, orally amended by our colleague Gacek.
The new text expresses the European Parliament's dissatisfaction with the existent situation in which only the citizens of 12 Member States, such as Romania, are not exempted from visa for the United States of America.
I voted for amendment 1 submitted by the Group of European Socialists, which requests the Commission to guarantee, under the principle of loyal cooperation, equal treatment for all Member States citizens as regards the visa waiver.
I voted for amendment 2 submitted by the Group of European Socialists because it states that, at the meeting of 13 March 2008 of the Ministerial Troika on Justice and Home Affairs, the US admitted the Community's competence to negotiate an international agreement on visa policy.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for the joint motion for a resolution on Burma because the dramatic situation in the country makes it essential to restore democracy and ensure respect for human rights as a matter of urgency.
It is the international community which should deal with these crucial questions of international law through the United Nations.
in writing. - (PT) We would like to express our sincere condolences to the victims of the cyclone on 2 and 3 May that affected various regions of Myanmar (Burma).
in writing. - I fully support the resolution dealing with the tragic situation in Burma.
in writing. - The tragic situation in Burma demands urgent attention.
Indeed, our Asian partners also have a role to play in putting pressure on the regime in Rangoon.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I would like to acknowledge the Commission's swift response to the emergency following the earthquake on 12 May.
in writing. - (SV) Aid and money for the people in China who have been hit by this natural disaster are a must in dealing with this tragic situation.
in writing. - (PT) We express our sincere condolences to the victims of the earthquake that struck various provinces and autonomous regions of the People's Republic of China on 12 May, and our solidarity with the people of China, who have shown such courage and mutual support in this time of suffering.
in writing. - I join my colleagues in saluting China's efforts in helping its people following the earthquake in Sichuan province.
I also agree that the EU should be actively helping China with reconstruction efforts.
I voted in support of the resolution.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament's resolution on the natural disaster in China.
I would like to express my deepest sympathy and solidarity with the Chinese people and with the great many victims of this tragedy.
According to my estimates, the EU has already provided more than EUR 10 million in aid.
in writing. - (SV) A ban on this type of weapon must be implemented on a global basis, through the United Nations, and at the instigation of nation states, not by the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) Being fully aware of the retrospective nature of the resolution, we voted in favour, mainly because of the content of paragraphs 7 and 8, which: Reiterate the call for all EU Member States and NATO countries to impose a ban on the use of depleted uranium, to redouble efforts to achieve a complete ban and systematically to halt production and procurement of this type of weaponry; Call on the Member States and the Council to take the lead in working towards an international treaty to establish a ban on the development, production, stockpiling, transfer, testing and use of uranium weapons as well as the destruction or recycling of existing stocks (even though the EP has unacceptably set conditions on that requirement).
in writing. - I fully support calls for the establishment of an international treaty to ban depleted uranium weapons.
in writing. - EU Member States and the Council must take the lead in negotiating an international treaty aimed at introducing a ban on the development, production, stockpiling, transfer, testing and use of uranium weapons.
Existing stocks must be destroyed or recycled.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
I think the Commission should formulate an animal health action plan to improve its ability to react to such serious animal epizootic diseases by financing research, compensating for losses, giving advances on payments, etc.
in writing. - (PT) I support the animal health strategy for 2007-2013, proposed by the European Commission, since I believe the debate among European institutions must be initiated rapidly with a view to drafting future legislative proposals.
in writing. - (SV) This report deals with a very important issue.
We are therefore obliged to vote against the report as a whole, although in principle we are in favour of measures to promote better animal health in the Union.
in writing. - I voted against paragraph 52 of the Wojciechowski report which gives support for the principle of electronic tagging.
Sheep farming plays a vital role in many parts of rural Scotland and the EU must act in such a way as to protect these rural economies, not impose additional burdens on sheep farmers.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report on a new Animal Health Strategy for the EU because I am strongly in favour of sustainable agriculture and I can only endorse any policy measure or practice that seeks to promote it.
in writing. - I welcome Janus Wojciechowski's report.
The report incorporates measures aimed at improving food safety as well as animal health.
in writing. - (FR) After heated debate and a large number of amendments tabled in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Wojciechowski report, as adopted, proposes substantial changes to the Commission's proposals.
The remaining measures proposed in the report, particularly to promote the use of emergency vaccination, to give farmers a greater sense of responsibility and to shed light on the role of all the players in the funding of the future strategy, are a step in the right direction and are an appropriate means of strengthening EU legislation on animal health.
in writing. - This issue is of vital concern for many millions of Europe's citizens, particularly in the south-east of England.
We therefore hope that some positive steps will be made in the process in this third session of the Meeting of the Parties, to be held in Riga, Latvia, from 11 to 13 June 2008.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan supports the Aarhus Convention, but we think that the national parliaments should determine their various positions on their own account during the conference on the Aarhus Convention in Riga.
in writing. - (FI) I have been actively involved in the Aarhus Convention since 2000, when we discussed its first pillar, the right of citizens to information on the environment, and soon after that the second pillar, opportunities for public participation in decision-making.
It is for this very reason that I like the paragraph in our resolution in preparation for the meeting which states that there is a desire to extend the Aarhus Convention to apply to all the principles of sustainable development.
Greater involvement in this process on the part of national and European institutions which represent citizens is of vital importance, both in order to obtain full access to information on environmental matters and, in particular, so as to be able to ensure that the information provided is above all correct.
On behalf of the UEN Group, which will vote in favour of the resolution, I would like to underline the need for the European Union delegation attending the Meeting of the Parties to the Convention, scheduled for 11 to 13 June 2008, to have as broad a representation as possible from this Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) Some aspects of the resolution are more important than others.
in writing. - I believe that much can still be done in order to enhance the effectiveness of aid from the EU and its member states, and the report by Johan van Hecke encompasses important insights.
in writing. - I welcome Mr Van Hecke's follow-up to the Paris Declaration of 2005 on Aid Effectiveness.
The aid system must remain true to its primary goal of reducing poverty.
in writing. - (PL) The Paris Declaration of 2005 established an international aid effectiveness programme based, primarily, on eliminating poverty.
