The attack on Galina Kozlova, member of the board of the Mari national organisation Mari Ušem and editor of the literary magazine Ontšõko (debate) The next item is the statement by the Commission on the attack on Galina Kozlova, member of the board of the Mari national organisation Mari Ušem and editor of the literary magazine Ontšõko.
The next round of consultations with Russia on human rights - including the rights of people belonging to minorities - and fundamental freedoms will take place on 3 May.
We know that the perpetrators of the attack on Mr Kozlov in 2005 have still not been found, and in fact this is also grounds for the current decision.
This situation does raise the fear that these serious incidents occur at the behest of the local authorities, or at least with their tacit support.
Our parliamentary resolution of 2005 had tangible results, as my fellow Member Mr Tabajdi has suggested, since for a year and a half no such incidents occurred.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, from this Chamber we protest against those who breach human rights and violate the rules of law.
We support Galina Kozlova in her struggle for the interests of Mari citizens and democracy.
The large Russian empire, with its many minorities, made way for regional self-government for the other peoples, with education and administration in the people's language.
It is to this decision that 11 countries, including Ukraine, Georgia and Uzbekistan, now owe their independence.
Nobody has recognised their right to independence and they all hope that they, despite everything, can retain the rights that were granted to them 85 years ago.
It is in this light that the protection of the people who stand up for the right of the Mari Republic should be seen. (LT) First I would like to thank my colleagues Tunne Kelam, Vytautas Landsbergis and Charles Tannock for their initiative in arranging for us to hear the Commission's report on Galina Kozlova today and adopt a resolution.
In this context the brutal attack on Galina Kozlova, editor of the literary journal Ontšõko and wife of Mari Council chairman Vladimir Kozlov, an attack with precedents in the Mari Republic, not only deserves our attention and consideration, but it forces us to return yet again to the general human rights situation in Russia.
I think the problems of Finno-Ugric minorities in Russia could be raised by the Commission during the ongoing EU-Russia dialogue on human rights issues, and during the EU-Russia leaders' summit. (PL) Mr President, the European Parliament expresses its concern about the attack on Galina Kozlova, member of the board of the Mari Ušem national organisation and editor of the literary magazine Ontšõko in the Mari-El Republic in the Russian Federation.
Galina Kozlova is married to Vladimir Kozlov, President of the Mari-El Republic's Council, who was also nominated for the 2006 Sakharov Prize.
I have already mentioned that 3 May is one of those meeting days.
