Outcome of the European Council (18-19 June 2009) - Term in office of the Czech Presidency (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the European Council report and the Commission statement on the outcome of the European Council (18-19 June 2009) the statement by the outgoing Presidency of the Council on the term in office of the Czech Presidency.
Please allow me to say a few words at the outset.
In the first half of 2009 the Presidency was held by a second country from the group which acceded to the European Union barely five years ago.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to be able to greet you at the opening of your five-year mandate.
They are areas that will continue to require all of our combined efforts in the future, in order for the Union to stand its ground even in times of instability and to benefit its citizens - which is the main reason for it being here.
The Czech Presidency also took a serious approach to a task that is connected with the election of this new European Parliament, namely initiating the process of appointing a Commission for the next legislative period 2009-2014.
At the June European Council a clear political consensus was achieved on José Manuel Barroso as the candidate for President of the next Commission.
Energy policy, the second priority of the Czech Presidency, was severely tested in the very first days of the Presidency.
I should like to congratulate Prime Minister Fischer and his predecessor, Mirek Topolánek, on the results obtained during a particularly difficult phase.
In all of these areas there were ambitious proposals from the Commission, which were supported by this Parliament.
Moreover, it was in this same spirit that we took part in the G20 in London, prompting some very important decision-making.
The European project has always been a long-term one.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (CS) Prime Minister Fischer, Commission President Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, in January this year I warned this honourable assembly that the Czech Presidency would not be easy and that it would probably be marked by major instability.
Despite this, some things have been successful over the six months, others less so.
With this move, the Czech political class did a disservice both to its own country and to Europe.
Prime Minister, you have however shown that, in politics just as in football, a game can still turn even if substitutions are not made until it has gone into extra time.
In the European Council in June the course was set for an overhaul of financial market supervision.
You have negotiated the guarantees for Ireland so that, hopefully, the referendum on 2 October will be successful.
Ivo de Boer, the United Nations' top climate change official, and Ban Ki-moon impressed upon us after the last conference in Bonn that all of countries of the world which have claimed that they would take a leading role in this global policy to combat the climate crisis have fallen far short of doing what would actually be needed.
In the first days of the Czech Presidency an imminent crisis over gas supplies was successfully warded off, bearing in mind of course that any real progress over this issue will require long-term strategic measures, including diversification of supply and liberalisation of the internal energy market.
His name first came to my attention when he was taking a stand against the falsification of statistical data in the Czech Republic.
As we are now marking the 500th anniversary of the birth of Calvin, who was born in France on 10 July 1509, I would like to say that the only thing that will truly save us in this difficult situation with two crises... (the President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, the Czech Presidency has followed a depressingly familiar pattern: continuity, more of the same, the continuing obsession with climate change and the continuing drive to have new legislation.
So at least for Václav Klaus we thank you very much for the last six months. (Applause) President of the Commission. - Madam President, I should just like to put a question.
As a result, we missed an important opportunity to bring more democracy back into the European Union.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond very briefly on behalf of the Council and the former Czech Presidency.
We have adopted fundamental measures in this area and they were agreed on after a very serious, challenging and controversial debate, where we juggled with the details right up to the European Council in June, producing a result which perhaps did not satisfy everyone, as there are some who consider the world to be over-regulated.
Otherwise, the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon in the Czech Republic has of course proceeded fully in accordance with the Czech constitution.
The fact that no referendum was held in the Czech Republic to ratify the Treaty is entirely an internal matter for the Czech Republic and is a matter fully compatible and fully in conformity with the Czech constitution.
Unfortunately, the Czech Republic will also go down in EU history as an example of political instability, because the social democrat Paroubek placed his own ambitions above the interests of the EU and - together with several turncoats - engineered the downfall of the Czech Government half way through its successful Presidency.
I would like to thank the teams of Prime Ministers Topolánek and Fischer as well as the Czech mission in Brussels for their hard work in furthering the interests of the EU and the Czech Republic.
Prime Minister, please do not devalue the rights of women or their skills. (GA) Madam President, an overwhelming number of people voted against the Treaty of Lisbon last year, because it was believed that a better Europe could be achieved: a Europe that is democratic and responsible; a Europe that promotes the rights of workers, that defends public services and that seeks a positive role in the world.
We need a new Treaty for a new era. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the Czech Presidency for its efforts, which can perhaps be interpreted precisely as a parable of the situation in which our institutions currently find themselves.
I therefore believe that we must assume our responsibilities and give these institutions the strength to be able to reconnect with our citizens, because one thing is certain: what we are paying for most is the fact that we are paying in the first place, because this leads to the estrangement of our citizens, who are distancing themselves from our ideals. (CS) Prime Minister, Madam President, Commission President, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here in order to evaluate the previous Presidency.
Prime Minister, I would like to thank you and your government for the efforts you have made and I would like to thank the officials at European and Czech institutions for the work they have done.
The so-called guarantees given to the Irish people change nothing, mean nothing and are irrelevant.
We will be speaking on behalf of the millions of Europeans who did not have a chance to vote against the Treaty of Lisbon, a Treaty that is not for the benefit of the majority of the people of Europe, but for the benefit of bureaucrats, of large corporations and of military industries. (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, during this debate many people have expressed their gratitude to the Czech Presidency for the fact that it has still managed to complete a few projects, in administrative terms, by the end of its term of office.
Prime Minister, if you meet with President Klaus this evening, please tell him that had an opportunity during these six months to make the Czech national identity and sovereignty clear to Europe by showing strong leadership.
First-rate officials and outstanding ministers, such as Karel Schwarzenberg, Saša Vondra, Ondřej Liška and others, as well as Prime Minister Fischer have done an excellent job.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this time my response really will be very brief.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, some concrete questions were raised.
Concerning the issue of the regulation and supervision of the financial market, which was also raised during the debate, of course there is still an agenda to complete, namely what was adopted at the European Council as a consensus based on the de Larosière report - a report I commissioned from that high-level group - but we also have to take note of the progress that has been made.
The Commission proposals on capital requirements, deposit guarantees, credit-rating agencies and on the Solvency Directive for the insurance sector have all been adopted by the European Parliament and by the Council.
