Enhancing the quality of life of older people (debate) The next item is the report by Neena Gill, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the participation by the Community in a research and development programme aimed at enhancing the quality of life of older people through the use of new Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), undertaken by several Member States - C6-0178/2007 -.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very pleased and happy to replace my fellow Commissioner, Ms Viviane Reding, in introducing such a very important and very good subject.
We are rightly concerned about ensuring a good quality of life as well as the financial sustainability of health and social care for the elderly.
Average life expectancy is currently 80 years, and a 40% increase in people of retirement age is expected by 2030.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) It is good that for once today we are talking about the demographic change in Europe in a different way, not as something that only costs money and that produces people who then need to be cared for; it so happens that it also presents a very important opportunity.
on behalf of the PSE group. - (RO) Thanks to a lack of policies to promote an increase in the birth rate and certain facilities for child raising and care, that part of the population aged over 65 years will increase from 20% to 28% by 2025.
Any Member State can take part in this programme.
This Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) programme links this major trend, namely demographic change - which is more pronounced in Europe than in other regions - with our strengths in research and innovation.
I would like to thank Neena Gill, the rapporteur, for having conveyed this message extremely clearly, much more than other rapporteurs, I must say.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
But before you think of using new information and communication technologies, I implore you to grasp the fact that Bulgarian pensioners live on pensions equal to EUR 50 a month.
ICT can and will no doubt enhance quality of life and self-respect among the elderly.
I welcome the view expressed in the report that ICT products for the elderly should be affordable and user-friendly.
To lead in the area discussed is both necessary and honourable. - (LT) Today, every fifth EU citizen is over 60, with a life expectancy of more than 80 years.
We must therefore ensure that products based on new information and communication technologies are user-friendly. (PL) Mr President, the phenomenon of an ageing society in European countries is a fact and represents a fundamental challenge for society.
The number of persons aged between 65 and 80 will rise by 40% during the years 2010-2030.
That is why I support the European Commission's proposal for the Community to take part in the joint programme to help and include older people and improve their quality of life using information and communication technologies.
They must capture the ageing population and people with disabilities in towns and in the country; otherwise there is a danger that the final result will be exclusion instead of inclusion.
That is why we are thinking of our future now and are taking new steps towards it. (RO) According to statistical data, the number of senior citizens in Europe will increase by 40% between 2010 and 2030.
Elderly European citizens must benefit from quality services and conditions, and the experience accumulated by them should be used in the ongoing development of society.
The elderly, especially in the new Member States, are not at all or partially familiar with this field and the losses resulting for society as a whole are plain to see.
Finally, I want to reiterate the importance of focusing on the situation in the new Member States, in which the elderly are in a less favourable situation.
Unfortunately very few resources are dedicated to the computer literacy of senior citizens and that is why I welcome the report by Mrs Neena Gill, which sets out an important message of the European Parliament as regards enhancing the quality of life of elderly or disabled people.
The programme also presents an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises and fully complies with the Lisbon Strategy objectives and our values. (PL) Mr President, we should welcome the proposed participation by the Union in a joint research and development programme aimed at enhancing the quality of life of older persons.
New types of ICT can make life easier for persons of an advanced age, and help them to remain active at work and in their private lives.
The problem is particularly significant in relation to the ageing of the population of Europe. (RO) The exclusion of senior citizens from the advantages of information technologies is problematic, especially as the number of those members of the European population between 65 and 80 years of age will soon reach 40%.
Thus, the joint research and development programme that the European Union will join, is welcomed in the context of improving the life of these people.
However, I would like to point out the fact that Community financial involvement in this project is limited.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, speaking on behalf of Ms Viviane Reding, I would like to express appreciation for the very constructive approach taken by the European Parliament and in particular the rapporteur Ms Gill during the negotiation process on the 'Ambient assisted living' (AAL) proposal.
I am not responsible for this portfolio and for me the debate was certainly not only interesting but very educational.
The issue is about funding and many have raised this.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13 March 2008.
