On the same topic could I ask you, Mr President, on behalf of all the Members of this Parliament, if we could have a similar report to the one prepared by the Commission on the progress of the human resource reforms as regards the work that is going on with the staff of Parliament.
We are currently in a position where we know less about the progress of the personnel reforms in this House than we do in the Commission.
Could I ask you to discuss with your colleagues and arrange for a statement and a report to be made to this House as soon as possible about the progress of these crucial reforms which were solidly supported by the House when it approved my report last year?
On the first part, I was here when the President gave you the assurance that Mr Kinnock' s report would be distributed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year ago the European Parliament set up a special committee to ascertain whether there was in fact a global interception system for which the US National Security Agency was ultimately responsible and which was able to intercept any communication by telephone, fax or e-mail in Europe.
By way of contrast to police surveillance operations, which always target an individual or a clearly defined group of people, the system concerning us here intercepts every communication to which it has access and feeds it into a computer search engine.
Most of the intelligence services in the EU Member States engage in strategic communications monitoring.
But in the case of the intelligence services, they call it an infringement of human rights.
To that extent most of the services engage in espionage in the economic domain.
But there are individual cases in which the instrument of interception can be used to great effect.
Thirdly, if it is true that the American intelligence agencies do not engage in detailed industrial espionage, why is there no law in the United States of America that proscribes such activity by intelligence agencies?
Moreover, I should like to draw attention to the fact that, during your activities in this connection, the Council presidency has, at all times, shown its willingness to cooperate loyally with Parliament.
Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights - an article that the EU must respect under the terms of Article 6 of the Treaty establishing the European Union - stipulates that everyone has a right to the respect for his privacy.
Under the same Article, and also according to the Court of Justice' s established case law, there shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and which is necessary to achieve precisely stated aims and where this respects the principle of proportionality.
Basing its work on these principles, the Justice and Home Affairs Council met on 29 and 30 May 2000 and reiterated the Council' s commitment, as regards the Echelon network, to the respect of fundamental rights and people' s freedoms.
These principles were also included in the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 29 May 2000 between the Member States of the European Union.
Article 20 of this Convention thus specifies the conditions in which telecommunications interception may be permitted within the framework of cooperation between Member States in criminal matters. (FR) The respect for one' s private life is now also one of the rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights adopted in Nice at the end of last year.
Article 7 of the Charter lays down that any person has a right to the respect for his privacy and family life, the respect for his home and his communications.
The Council is obviously willing to make full use of these provisions.
That is why the Union is trying to promote a dialogue with third countries, as well as a transatlantic dialogue with the United States and Canada.
An initial meeting of experts on legal systems for data protection has already taken place last May in Brussels during the Swedish Presidency.
During a Legal and Home Affairs meeting involving top American officials, which took place on 17 July of this year, both the presidency and the United States recognised the need for reaching an agreement in this area.
Therefore, Parliament and the Schmid report are fundamental to greater awareness of this issue.
The Council and the presidency, each within their own remit, will make every effort to guarantee fully respect for private and family life and data protection, both within the Union and elsewhere.
In addition, the sixth Framework Programme concerning research, which is currently being discussed in the Council, should also emphasise all aspects related to security of networks and information traffic. (FR) The revision of telecommunications legislation also contains some provisions updating European regulations, particularly on the protection of personal data and privacy.
The European Parliament motion for a resolution highlights the need for democratic monitoring of intelligence operations that might be established within the European Union.
The victims have given us clues to help us in our investigations but are not prepared to testify in court, and so we unfortunately have insufficient evidence to secure a conviction.
My colleague, Mr Gerhard Schmid, presented the report with the results of the work of this temporary committee a moment ago.
Mainly based on information which was published in the course of the investigation of the ECHELON Committee by the Dutch and German governments, we know that systems for tapping international telecommunication are often used as an aid in the fight against international terrorism, trafficking in human beings, the drugs trade, the illegal arms trade, and to enforce internationally established embargoes.
The unnecessary secrecy, the surreptitious behaviour of the secret services and the lack of openness of many governments prevent systems for tapping international telecommunications from being deployed in a more transparent manner.
Effective democratic and political supervision of activities carried out by secret services, and hence tapping international telephone traffic, form an essential part of every state' s right to defend the security of its citizens or its democratic fabric against external attacks.
It is inevitable that some aspects of the work of the intelligence service should remain confidential, but there is also a great deal that could most certainly be brought into the open in a democratic society.
Only countries which, in respect of its citizens, deal with their intelligence services in an open and honest way will also be able to provide the necessary cooperation at European level and be able to help set up a European intelligence force in the framework of an effective common foreign and security policy.
During the investigation by the ECHELON Committee, we have not obtained any evidence that citizens' privacy is being intentionally violated or that systems designed for large-scale tapping operations involving international telecommunications traffic are deliberately being used for large-scale and direct industrial espionage.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate Gerhard Schmid on his excellent report.
He is proposing no less than eight specific measures to enhance the protection of citizens' rights within the framework of various international treaties, and he calls upon the Member States and the Council to adopt at least seven specific national legislative measures to protect citizens.
As a citizen of a country whose intelligence service is certainly very small-scale compared to those of its larger neighbours or allies, I still believe that it is misleading and futile to suggest abolishing the secret services.
The proposals in paragraphs 16 and 17 of the resolution must also be seen from this perspective.
Mr President, we welcome the fact that the report recognises and accepts that Echelon exists.
This is something that the Green Group stated a long time ago in this Parliament and we have now been vindicated.
However, the report fails to draw any political conclusions.
It is also extremely hypocritical in that it criticises the Echelon interception system, while at the same time we are planning to establish a European secret service.
It is a well known fact that there is no effective public control mechanism of secret services and their undemocratic activities anywhere in the world.
By their very nature, secret services cannot be controlled and therefore we, as Members of this Parliament, who claim to be concerned about human rights and basic civil liberties, should be questioning their very existence.
But, on the contrary, the report serves to legitimise a European secret service which will inevitably infringe fundamental rights in the same way as the Echelon system.
The temporary committee and the report focus mainly on the threat to European industrial competition and the threat posed by industrial espionage.
Recently there have been reports in British newspapers which point out that European leaders have ordered police and intelligence agencies to coordinate their efforts to identify and track anti-capitalist demonstrators.
We, as Members of the European Parliament, should be demanding that people' s freedoms and the right to privacy, as enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention and Article 6 of the EU Treaty, are protected and that people are not forced to live under permanent control where the possibility exists that every communication they make will be accessible to unknown forces.
From now on, the Union' s institutions, particularly the representatives of the Council and the Commission, will no longer be able to say that information reported in the media is inaccurate.
There is, however, inconsistency between what has been ascertained and the conclusions of the report, for the system flagrantly infringes the fundamental right to privacy guaranteed by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
In fact, because of its technical capabilities, the system nullifies the relationship of proportionality which, precisely within the meaning of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, has to exist between interference in people' s private lives and the benefits of interception for protection purposes.
This is all the more serious in that interception is currently carried out by means of these technical capabilities by a third country on EU territory and to the detriment of the citizens of the countries of the Union, without the possibility of any sort of legal, administrative or parliamentary control.
A further problem is that one of the countries managing the Echelon system is the United Kingdom, a Member of the European Union, while other Member States such as Germany have made their territory available for the siting of antennae, listening posts and other equipment.
As previous speakers have mentioned, the report confirmed the existence of a US espionage system, operated by the Americans in collusion with two Member States, in breach of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union and of the most basic rules on respect for one' s private life, a system which involves intensive industrial espionage to the benefit of American companies.
The report has shown that the European firms Siemens, Dassault, Phillips, Thomson and Airbus were the targets of espionage, and this has consequently had a serious effect on employment in Europe, on our commercial stability and on Europe' s defence industries.
This is something we regret, but the report does not answer two fundamental questions.
The first is, although it has been established that at least one country, the United Kingdom, has been involved in espionage activity against Europe, in breach of the Treaty on European Union, what sanctions must we take?
The conclusion of the report is quite simply disquieting.
We can see from the report that Echelon is a prime example of a system which does not recognise citizens' right to privacy and subordinates privacy to national security, which is primarily endangered by the inability of politicians to foresee, prevent and deal with threats.
The European Parliament should be in no doubt about this.
Lastly, 44 recommendations have been tabled.
Giving the lie to those who predicted that the committee would not produce anything tangible, we are making 44 recommendations to the House.
Lastly, the request is made to the Union' s Member States to ensure in the future that the use of their countries by information gathering services, whether their own or of third countries, respects the European Convention on Human Rights.
We have, of course, managed to ascertain that ECHELON exists, and this naturally highlights the dilemma arising, on the one hand, from the fact that countries have a legitimate interest in using interception as one means of protecting themselves and their citizens against attacks and terrorism and, on the other, from the fact that the same citizens, as well as companies, have a need for protection against the misuse of precisely this type of surveillance.
We have a need for international rules in this area that are as tough as is humanly possible.
There is now a need for countries to take responsibility for protecting their citizens and companies against violations.
The Dutch government has issued a report in which a reasonable case is made for the existence of ECHELON and the Council has also said that it supports our findings.
The protection of privacy via legislation is only effective if the law is enforced.
Of course, the world will not immediately change by a vote we take in Parliament, but that does not mean that that vote is unimportant: we need to make it clear what is and what is not acceptable.
It is our task to stop this snowball effect by making clear, political statements against the violation of human rights.
Echelon is, in fact, one of the essential parts of the NSA, a sprawling global espionage network which employs approximately 90 000 people and which has the technical capacity to carry out hundreds of millions of interceptions each day.
The main conclusion is that completely convincing documentation has now successfully been put together to show that this worldwide surveillance system does in fact exist, but that is something of which we were, in actual fact, already well aware.
The report has an annex containing a survey of parliamentary and judicial supervision in the Member States.
Quite a few Member States have neither judicial nor parliamentary supervision and others - such as my own country, Denmark - have formal systems which, in practice, have shown their astonishing lack of effectiveness.
Mr President, I believe that if ever there was a time to congratulate a rapporteur and the Chairman of a temporary committee, this is it, since they have produced a report which has been produced against all the odds.
These days, electronic mail, mobile telephones, videoconferencing and the Internet have broken down the physical borders between countries across the world.
And the most serious thing is that organised crime is using these means for their own advantage and even funding.
This gives rise to a question: why not direct all this potential for intercepting communications which, as has been demonstrated, the countries making up the ECHELON system have at their disposal, to combat terrorists, drug traffickers or the organised mafias which traffic in human beings, instead of using it for an international competition between States which is unfair by any reckoning?
All Member States of the European Union must dedicate all their efforts to defending the rights of their citizens, whether they be economic, social or political in nature, since anything less would represent a lack of compliance with the commitments laid down in the Treaties and, in particular, with the recent Charter of Fundamental Rights proclaimed at the Nice Summit by the fifteen Member States.
Several speakers this morning have referred to the UK' s role in this matter.
All the Member States do it, cooperating with each other and with other friendly democratic countries.
I hope we can put to rest some of the assertions and allegations that are still flying around about what is going on in the UK as well.
Furthermore, the UK stands completely by the conclusion reached in Council that in no circumstances may telecommunications interceptions be used to gain commercial advantage.
The purpose of the task can be summarised in three points.
As we know, there are also monitoring standards such as ETST, and European monitoring plans bearing the name Enfopol have come to light too.
Neither of these points is mentioned in the report, which essentially focuses on the monitoring that is undertaken by national intelligence agencies in violation of fundamental rights.
If there is any serious intention to create an area in which peace, security and justice reign supreme, the intelligence services will have to be disbanded; the surveillance authorities will also have to be dissolved.
Mr President, people outside this House must really wonder what is going on here.
First of all, we conclude that there is in fact such a thing as ECHELON, and then this politically elected assembly chooses not to draw political conclusions.
I believe that the European Parliament has lost an opportunity to make it clear that it is serious about citizens' rights.
It is also about taking action, and action is what is completely missing from the report.
However, the report shows the need we have to develop security and encryption.
Mr President, I was given the opportunity to take part in the work on Echelon as a representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which was a very welcome change, and I should like to concentrate on a few legal and institutional aspects of that work.
I am therefore confident that the Commission will help us to ensure that the concrete measures proposed in our draft report are actually taken, particularly the legislative measures to improve the protection of European citizens and European companies, the specific proposal for an additional protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights which would elucidate Article 8, efforts to reach a much needed agreement with the United States and many more measures besides.
As was also pointed out, management interests are obviously very important, but these are not the whole story.
The British journalist Duncan Campbell even believes that ECHELON is used to intercept communications from Amnesty and the Red Cross.
Just as was stated earlier, the EU will, in that case, have to be able to take action, in common with national parliaments and governments.
Encryption offers the only effective protection against interception.
The institutions of the EU must be able to act jointly on this issue.
As I understand it, Echelon allows certain Member States of the European Union - one Member State at least and maybe others - to attend top-level meetings in the European Union armed with knowledge of the negotiating tactics, positions and strategy of the other Member States.
Mr President, I have to say that I was slightly surprised that Mr Coelho, who did an excellent job in inspiring difficult debates and maintained a completely objective approach, was given so little speaking time.
I would also like to thank Mr Schmid who has obviously worked very hard on this issue, even though I disagree with some of the points in his report.
The resolution poses a fundamental problem.
On the other hand, the resolution raises the problem of whether the participation of an EU Member State in the Echelon system is compatible with European law.
We in Parliament have a right to expect the Member State or States involved, the Council and the Commission to take preventative measures and action.
The report and its extensive conclusions and recommendations section, in particular, represent a major contribution on the part of Parliament to the protection of European citizens' and companies' freedom.
These amendments have been rejected by the temporary committee but I believe this was purely out of concern for practicality.
It may be that, in the future, we will have to amend the laws in question in line with the development of information technology but, as things stand at the moment, this is the situation.
Including the amendments cited in the Schmid report would be a decisive contribution towards ensuring that the European citizens feel that their interests are fully represented and that the Unions' institutions do not lose credibility as a result of the report.
Wiretapping and spying are an intolerable invasion of people' s privacy and are in direct contravention of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Globalisation needs to go hand in glove with legal guarantees that both privacy and the rules of healthy competition will be protected.
We need to improve the security of information technology infrastructures and the application of efficient parliamentary and judicial controls on how secret services operate at national and European level, otherwise our citizens will lose all confidence in the information society.
Finally, European companies need to develop ways of protecting themselves by reviewing their internal procedures, informing and training staff and using firewalls to protect their electronic communications.
In all events, intelligence services should operate on the basis of respect for fundamental rights, as set out in the Charter and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Mr President, I have the greatest reservations regarding the mild and, in parts, hesitant nature of the report, for it underestimates the dangers of global monitoring of communications and does not propose adequate autonomous defence measures for Europe.
The report appears to avoid this specific question: can the use of data collected using Echelon by the security services of one of the Member States, the United Kingdom, actually lead to tangible cases of espionage against European citizens or companies by the United States?
These are questions which we must ask ourselves, seeing as the same US Congress raised the issue of whether the surveillance carried out by the NSA on US citizens was not a practice which contravened the Constitution.
The President of STOA, an ex-Member of Parliament, Mr Pompidou, commented that many European companies have already suffered because of the existence of ECHELON, but they do not expose it because they still trade with the United States and have to continue to do so in the future.
I should also like to thank Parliament as a whole for this very important debate.
The Commission has been following the parliamentary work over the past year with great interest.
The report presents a large number of references to the existence of a global interception system.
The Commission stated on 30 March last year: "It is the very nature of intelligence activities that those that are not involved in those activities are not able to confirm nor deny their existence" .
Even though the Commission is not involved in intelligence gathering activities, we do not question the findings of the European Parliament.
The report by the Echelon Temporary Committee is based on careful and thorough work.
The European Union is founded on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, based on Article 6 of the Treaty and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The abuse of large-scale communications intelligence is something that can make an individual living in a democratic society feel very uneasy.
Any derogation from this right has to be specifically provided for by law, necessary for the achievement of objectives, in the public interest, proportionate and subject to adequate checks and guarantees against any form of abuse.
At the same time, the Community has to act within the scope of the powers conferred upon it by the Treaty.
The findings of the committee concerning the compatibility of a system of the Echelon type with EU law distinguish between two scenarios.
First, the use of such a system purely for intelligence purposes and second, abuse of the system for the purpose of gathering competitive intelligence.
The Commission shares the opinion that the operations envisaged in the first scenario in the interest of state security fall within the scope of title V of the Treaty on European Union, which sets out the framework for the establishment of a common foreign security policy.
Maintaining an interception system for the purpose of gathering intelligence, even in the context of a Member State' s defence or national security, is outside the scope of the directives in force on data protection.
It is not an activity that would be allowed in pursuit of a common foreign and security policy.
As far as Community law is concerned, such activity could fall within the scope of data protection directives.
Properly functioning electronic communications infrastructures are crucial for our economies.
As was stated in Lisbon, Europe wants to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
A precondition for this is the need to build trust in electronic communications.
This concerns both our citizens and our businesses.
The development in technologies can bring protection against surveillance.
Today the majority of Internet communications by cable no longer leave the European continent.
The support, through the Community' s research framework programme, in particular with the information side of technologies programme, has improved the conditions to develop top-of-the-range European encryption products in order to enable EU citizens, companies and governments to protect their communications.
Citizens and small businesses are not always aware of the potential effects.
We need to inform them about the possibilities of encryption.
In June this year the Commission adopted a communication on network and information security.
I am pleased to note that the conclusions of the report under discussion are very much in line with the approach adopted by the Commission.
Network information security is now coming as a third element to complete the picture.
However, communication is not meant to contain a fully fledged action plan.
Similar efforts are conducted through projects for secure video conferencing, secure telephone systems and encryption of databases.
Furthermore, security audits of Commission information systems are conducted on a regular basis.
In addition, the Commission is reviewing its overall security policy as a result of internal reorganisation activities and policy developments.
The new internal Commission security provisions will follow the model of the Council security regulation adopted earlier this year and will be based on the following principles: proportionality of security measures in relation to existing risks; shared responsibility and accountability of staff, management and security experts; the creation of all elements into a coherent security strategy, such as personal information and physical security; and finally, close cooperation between European and national security organisations.
I welcome the support in the report to allocate more resources for the task to be undertaken and I sincerely hope that Parliament as a budgetary authority will follow the position of the committee.
The trust of European citizens and businesses in electronic communications and the well-functioning of information infrastructures has become crucial for economies.
Let me reiterate once more that the Commission attaches the utmost importance to respect for human rights and respect of rule of law.
There are others who have not been mentioned in their own interest.
Madam President, I have the honour to bring this report to the House on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
They are designed to destroy the very basis of civil society and I am grateful to committee colleagues for their support for this view and for our subsequent recommendations.
In my mind, however, my analysis and recommendations should be no more and no less a response to the situation there than to similar situations which have existed, and in some cases continue to pose a threat, in Northern Ireland, in the UK, in Corsica, in France, in Germany, in Italy or other countries which have been subject to attack by ideological terrorist groups.
Terrorism is not a new phenomenon, but today it has many new aspects and features.
Links between terrorists in different countries now form part of the fretwork of internationally organised crime.
Some environmental protection groups harass those involved in oil exploration or exploitation.
Previous attempts by democratic societies to tackle this threat have met with varying success.
Where they have signally failed is in the field of international cooperation between law enforcement agencies or judicial authorities.
In the case of the European Union, the tools to improve such cooperation are provided by Articles 29 and 31 of the TEU and yet governments have hesitated to use them.
An unqualified rejection of terrorist organisations and of terrorism should lead to a coherent and binding set of coordinated policies and a spirit of cooperation between governments at all levels.
Cooperation between France and Spain or between Britain and Ireland has improved in recent months and yet the opportunities offered by the Amsterdam Treaty for more effective action have not been grasped.
I would like to thank Members from all parties in this House for their generous advice and assistance to me in drawing up this report.
I am pleased that it opposes the introduction of exceptional laws and procedures.
I believe that the legal systems of all the EU Member States have the capacity to guarantee justice.
I believe that all are justified in tackling a form of crime designed to destroy democracy based on the rule of law and I hope that the Commission and Council will respond early to this call for action.
The fundamental concern of these citizens today is that their children receive a pluralist and open education in their schools; that they may safely walk the streets of their towns; that they may be able to publicly express what they think; that they may be able to exercise their right to a free vote; that they may be able to hold a position representing their people, without endangering their lives or those of their families.
And these thousands of European citizens rightly expect local, national and European administrations to guarantee their fundamental rights.
That is why it seems to me essential that the Community institutions, as well as dealing with the constitution, the euro and enlargement, respond to what we European citizens, in Spain for example, who live there, consider to be our first priority: the fight against terrorism, that is, the fight for freedom, for respect for human rights and for the rule of law which we Spaniards have built after four decades of dictatorship.
The creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice is what the European Council in Tampere in October 1999 called for.
I believe that the European Parliament, the House which represents the European citizens, has had a special responsibility in this task, which our President, Nicole Fontaine, has taken on with a decisiveness and courage that those who have directly or indirectly suffered terror will never forget.
He is presenting this House with a text approved in committee by a huge majority, as he has said, and which contains such fundamental considerations as the statement that democratic dialogue must be based on mutual respect and non-violence, or the recognition of the debt that society owes to the victims of terrorist acts and their families.
Madam President, with absolute respect for all the parliamentary groups, regardless of their political orientation and, of course, for the free vote of Members, I would now ask you to support the report because this is a fundamental issue which goes beyond party disputes.
I am happy because Europe has understood that when ETA violates human rights, when organised Basque fascism commits xenophobic crime and ideological cleansing, when this terrorist organisation, which in Spain today represents the final dying embers of Franco' s legacy, continues to operate, based within Europe itself, it is not a problem for the direct victims, those of us who live with escorts, those who cannot appear on electoral lists, those who have to overcome fear in order to write daily or in order to talk to the media.
Therefore, European democracy is also acting as a whole and is reacting by uniting in the battle against terrorism.
I feel happy because Europe has understood that it is time to go beyond words, beyond fine statements, beyond bilateral cooperation, though this is important.
It also makes me happy to see that Europe has discovered that, when criminals are at liberty, when organised criminals are attacking human rights, freedoms and lives of citizens, the first political decision that must be taken is to make it possible for the criminals to be brought to justice.
The aim is to beat ETA, but the fundamental commitment is to defend democracy throughout the whole of Europe.
And in one place in Europe, in the Basque Country and in Spain, the fascist organisation ETA is jeopardising that coexistence and plurality.
It is said that there will be operative problems, that some countries will have problems harmonising their legislations.
President Verhofstadt said here, during his first intervention, that those who do not believe in utopia do not deserve to be called Europeans.
I believe that a political will which has been capable of introducing a single currency will be capable of also introducing single instruments to fight terrorism.
But please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to end by making a comment in my capacity not just as a European, but as a Basque and a Spaniard.
As a Basque and a Spaniard, as the daughter of a generation of Spanish democratic citizens who lost the war against Franco and who resisted forty years of dictatorship, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that through this act today, Europe is performing an act of historical reparation, because for many years, for a long time, we Spanish democrats have felt a sense of isolation, of indifference and distance from Europe.
We often felt it during Franco' s time and we have often felt it - I can assure you - during these years of fighting the fascism of ETA, of fighting for democracy and freedom.
His total condemnation and his call for the need to respect victims must be a constant element in our statements and our positions.
I would firstly and clearly like to highlight in this report the fact that important positive action measures are proposed for the legal and police areas: the establishment of minimum standards, the establishment of a form of extradition, the recognition of judicial resolutions, the execution of arrest warrants and the approximation of national legislations.
In the time that I have available, I believe I should stress that the report has not renounced important values in the fight against terrorism in Europe.
It is very important that Recital N incorporates the idea that ideologies are legitimate if they are compatible with democratic respect and values.
It is also significant that Recitals R and S state that measures must have restrictions on the part of States so that there is no abuse of the legal regulations.
I believe that all of this is important, given the balance which is provided by priority and efficiency of action and respect for European values.
I must mention my satisfaction with these changes, because they change the resolution, approved by written declaration in September 1999 and in which I expressed my disagreement - even though I signed it - with the removal of the expression 'democratic dialogue' .
Through this report the European Union is fully recovering its values on this issue, because peace, understood as the exclusion of violence, on the one hand, and dialogue, on the other, is an essential pairing for the European Union, inside and outside Europe.
I am very satisfied that this report can be approved and that it will be an effective tool for resolving this serious problem which affects many people.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report about terrorism.
The report then deals with trafficking in human beings, for example.
If the House does not even accept the Greens' amendment that seeks to establish fundamental human rights as a common minimum level of protection for everyone in the EU, the proposed recommendation must be rejected for the sake of those same fundamental rights.
Italy has suffered a terrible period in which we witnessed the murder of activists in their offices, the murder of young people in the squares and children burned alive in their homes, in the name of an ideology which ultimately led to the murder of the government adviser, Mr D' Antona, and which often leads, in practice, as happened in this case, to the death of young people during demonstrations which result in blind violence which has nothing to do with opposition to the globalisation of the markets.
Madam President, the report describes very graphically the dangers of terrorism in both its old and new forms and the threat it poses as well as the powerlessness of Europe' s traditional institutions in the face of the terrorist threat.
The principle enunciated in Article 29 of the Treaty on European Union, which calls terrorism a form of international crime, must be binding on all EU Member States, whose political representatives of particular ideological persuasions defend acts of violence inside or outside the EU as justifiable.
Madam President, if something characterises the production of this report on terrorism, it has not just been the rigour and know-how of the rapporteur, Mr Watson, whom I would expressly like to congratulate, but also the willingness and understanding of almost all the political groups in this House to reflect not only their rejection and condemnation of terrorism, the people involved in it and the methods it uses, but also to reach a consensus on the legal instruments which we must create at European level in order to combat and pursue the crimes involved in terrorist activity and organised crime.
We can state unreservedly, without any doubt - at least on my part - that the approval of this report would represent a European pact against terrorism.
Because, for the people of Europe, violence and terror are absolutely incompatible with democracy, dialogue and the rules of the game which the democratic States have set ourselves in order to live together in peace and, in particular, in order to resolve absolutely every - and I stress, absolutely every - one of our problems and differences of whatever nature.
Nationalist or independence movements that use terrorist organisations such as ETA in Spain as decoys are only really hiding the reality of their trade whose only objective is to spread terror, destabilise democracy and indiscriminately murder children, young people and adults of any trade or profession.
Another argument endorsed by this report is the urgent need to update the legal instruments which a new area without borders, such as the European Union, must have so that it is not easier for the violent people and terrorist groups to carry out their criminal acts than it is for the police and judges to pursue and punish them.
It is true that Spain and its government are particularly interested in what we resolve here today, but so should other countries such as France, Belgium, Italy or the United Kingdom or the other countries of the Union, because the roots of terrorism are in violence, its funding, the technological means it employs and the recruitment of young people who are trained, with money and hatred, to kill.
And this is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, which transcends the borders of the European Union.
Madam President, we are moving in the right direction.
I must insist once again on the urgency of the proposals and the urgent need for us to continue truly creating a new area where there is only room and freedom of movement for those of us who want to live in peace and freedom.
Commissioner Vitorino has the political support of this House.
Madam President, for reasons that are sometimes hard to admit, Europe is helpless in the face of terrorism.
Most Member States have no anti-terrorist legislation, prison sentences vary from State to State and the tracking of criminals outside the territory in which a crime is committed is only possible - when it is at all possible - by means of the extradition mechanism, which is always subject to the limitations of the reciprocity and constitutionality of each Member State.
Fortunately, the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Tampere Council and our own Commissioner António Vitorino have brought about changes in judicial cooperation in Europe.
Madam President, in addition to these penal and legal matters, we must also ensure that intellectual prejudices and outdated historical opinions do not continue to portray terrorism in the heroic and romantic light of a fight for freedom.
It is the opposite of freedom and of life.
It is a party which, while calling for an independent personality, sovereignty and a right to self-determination for the Basque people, nevertheless firmly rejects and condemns the use of violence and terror as instruments to achieve any political objective and, even more, condemns the unacceptable State terrorism, which we Basques have also suffered, perpetrated by the apparatus of the Spanish State.
That would be the best recipe the European Parliament could recommend against terrorism and in order to achieve peace.
I particularly value Recital O of the report, which makes it very clear that democratic dialogue based on mutual respect and non-violence is the best means of resolving conflicts, thereby rectifying previous resolutions by this very European Parliament.
What I regret is that the attempt to reflect this same idea in the final recommendations has failed.
However, despite this insufficiency and having reflected on it, I am going to vote in favour of the Watson report in order to give an opportunity to Recital O, that is to say, to democratic dialogue as a means for resolving our conflict.
The hypocritical position of the Member States on the violation of citizens' rights that has been underlined by various speakers can help us in our analysis of the report on terrorism.
The report, very regrettably, ignores state terrorism.
Despite that, this House will most probably accept this report.
Let me now recall the memory of the journalist, Fernando Pereira.
This terrorism that is threatening to sprout up again here, however, is increasingly international and global in character; its perpetrators are not truly engaged in the globalisation debate that needs to be pursued but are merely using the debate as a vehicle for acts of terror against governments, against state institutions - in short, against our democratic system.
Fighting terrorism also means defending human rights and democracy.
Mr President, terrorism is the destruction of democracy.
The tormented victims of brutal terrorism are largely forgotten.
I welcome this report' s action call on this issue to look after the interests of these tormented victims and its emphasis on the immediate need to ensure that there is no sanctuary for terrorism in this European Union.
Mr President, this report is of the utmost importance to the citizens of Europe.
It is a complex and difficult report that should impact clearly on each and every citizen, so that they can understand precisely what Parliament is trying to accomplish on their behalf.
I congratulate Mr Watson and all concerned in putting together this report.
In Greece, a new anti-terrorism law was passed in May 2001 in a bid to systemise and up the ante in the fight against terrorism without violating fundamental rights and the principles of the rule of law.
However, combating terrorism, be it in Greece or Spain, is a matter for the European Union as a whole.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights should be used as a reference point for any new initiative.
However, in the case of terrorist offences, the Council should immediately abolish formal extradition procedures and adopt the principle of mutual recognition of decisions on criminal matters, including pre-judgment decisions, as proposed in the report.
Terrorism has been a major problem in the Western world and in Europe it has been prevalent certainly since the Second World War.
We in Northern Ireland have experienced that very painfully over the past 30 years.
If we do abolish extradition, whatever replaces it must work and must be seen to work, especially between Member States.
The Member States must be free to protect their citizens.
I believe it is the duty of every Member State government to protect the innocent, not the perpetrators of violence.
The recent arrest of three IRA activists in Columbia brings home very clearly how widespread terrorism is throughout the world and how terrorists cooperate in the development of new and better weapons.
No one has the right to murder in the attempt to achieve a political objective.
But believe you me, it is much more difficult to build peace after the terrorism.
Mr President, terrorist acts are intended to weaken democracy and the fundamental values on which Europe is being built.
It is therefore necessary - and this is what we have understood - the strengthen the fight against terrorism and create mechanisms and initiatives which strengthen cooperation between the Member States, bearing in mind, furthermore, the intensification of terrorist actions within the European Union.
Also, the Member States must promote a commitment to rejecting any form of violence among their young people.
Lastly, I would like to stress that, if we are capable of implementing the recommendations of this report, we will have taken a very significant step in developing the European area of freedom, security and justice.
I would also like to thank the President of Parliament, Nicole Fontaine, for her personal attitude on opening this sitting in greeting the family of a victim of terrorism, the Councillor from the Union of the Navarrese People, José Javier Múgica, whose widow and three children were present in the Chamber and who have asked me to pass on their thanks to the whole House and to its President.
This Parliament has managed to become a torchbearer in the European fight against terrorism.
It was the first Chamber to produce a recommendation in writing that it was necessary to politically isolate political parties which do not condemn terrorism.
And it has been this Parliament which has managed to gather more than 400 signatures of Members of this House in a public commitment to combat the terrorism of ETA.
Because terrorism, and specifically the terrorism of ETA, affects all the citizens of Europe, not only the victims, but even Members of this House.
She could have told us of how ETA deprived her of her husband, Senator Casas.
And other Members could also speak of their suffering.
We are not going to indulge in theorising, because we are aware that, as the Watson report proposes, we have to oblige the Member States to finally reach an agreement, because terrorism represents the greatest violation of human rights suffered by the European people.
Indeed, as well as violent terrorism, it talks about a less explosive, very widespread terrorism operating under cover of political groupings whose objective is clearly to fight against democratic systems.
Recitals E, F and G make this clear, stressing that terrorism is on the increase in almost all the European countries and that the nature of terrorism is changing radically, but that there are also, according to recital G, in particular, international networks enjoying strong - as the recital says - logistical and financial support.
Well then, that is precisely what happened in Genoa during the G8 period.
International terrorist organisations used the Black Blocks to exploit genuinely peaceful organisations, working under cover of groups purporting to be non-violent and their complicitous leaders, who were supported in turn by the parties of the Italian and European left, which even lent them the platform of the European Parliament yesterday to hurl frenzied abuse at the Italian government and against the values of democracy and respect for people' s ideals, values which Parliament supports and develops.
Recital M and recommendation No 3 state this explicitly, and Amendment No 2, tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, is also negative evidence of this for, if it were to be adopted, this amendment would have Parliament believe that where the democratic and Constitutional structure of a country is working properly there is no terrorism.
He is right to emphasise the need for effective, clear and rapid measures to prevent and combat all acts of terrorism whatever form they may take and whatever they may be trying to achieve.
This increase demonstrates that traditional methods of judicial and police cooperation are inadequate, particularly if we take account of the fact that new forms of terrorism are continually arising, such as computer or environmental terrorism.
We also know that these acts increasingly stem from the activity of international organised networks, which manage to exploit the various legal loopholes and the diversity of national legislation.
By adopting the principle of solidarity in the fight against terrorism, the Treaty of Amsterdam has opened up new possibilities for coordinated action by the European Union.
The report we are now debating warrants our support, particularly because it advocates the approximation and harmonisation of the legislation of the fifteen Member States.
And I am going to make my second point, Mr President.
I believe that if we look back to 1992 when this Parliament voted in favour of the Maastricht Treaty, we will see that there were considerable gaps in the issues of justice and internal affairs within the third pillar.
It was a great innovation that the European Union was going to deal with issues which had always been at the heart of the Member States.
Very little time has passed since then, practically seven years, since Maastricht entered into force, and nevertheless, what progress has been made!
Progress has not just been made in terms of European solidarity on a specific problem, the terrorism of ETA, which is extraordinarily important and which is of fundamental importance politically; but progress has also been made in the construction of Europe.
This is the way to move forward together in Europe and to deal with the real concerns of the citizens, as has been said here.
Therefore, as well as expressing gratitude for European solidarity, I would like to say that this Watson report - and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has made great efforts - also represents a very important milestone on this journey which we, including all of us here in this European Parliament, are making together in the construction of Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, underpinning the European Union and its Member States is the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the guarantee of human dignity and the protection of individuals and institutions enshrined in the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In a completely democratic setting, such as we have in the Union and in its Member States, terrorist acts can never be justified, irrespective of where they are carried out or their aim.
Over the last few years, Europe has seen an increase in terrorist activity within its borders, characterised by a profound change in the nature of the acts carried out.
Terrorists are able to exploit differences between the legal systems of various Member States and the difficulties in extraditing such people, especially when such an act is not covered by law in a given State.
This aspect illustrates, as has been said several times during the debate, the inadequacy of traditional forms of judicial and police cooperation in combating terrorism.
The institutions of the European Union, in particular the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council, have continually condemned terrorism at a political level.
Unfortunately, we have been called upon unusually frequently to state this position as a result of the terrorist actions of ETA in Spain.
Our solidarity with the Spanish people and especially with the victims of terrorism in Spain is unequivocal and unceasing.
This is why Article 29 of the Treaty of Amsterdam refers specifically to common action in three areas: closer cooperation between police forces, customs agencies and other competent authorities, including Europol, closer cooperation between Member States' judicial authorities and approximation, where necessary, of criminal law provisions.
Under Article 2 of the Europol Convention, terrorism falls within the competence of Europol.
Similarly, the Commission intends to propose an approximation of criminal legislation on acts of terrorism, pursuant to Article 31(e) of the Treaty establishing European Union, not only covering traditional forms of terrorism, but also its newer incarnations.
Lastly, the act of directing, promoting, supporting or belonging to a terrorist organisation must also be subject to a common standard.
The Commission shares Parliament' s concerns with regard to protecting the victims of terrorism and intends to present, in the course of the current presidency, a Green Paper on compensating victims of crime in general and of terrorist crime in particular within the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr Barón Crespo, given the applause, I think that the House fully agrees with this proposal and, since there are no objections, we shall begin voting with the vote on the Watson report.
I would like to say that we are very pleased to welcome the Transport Committee members, who represent the five political parties of the Swedish Parliament, and who are here to meet their counterparts in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Since the last part session in this Parliament, thirty people from Africa have died on Spanish beaches trying to find work in Europe.
During this same period, another 2 800 have been detained and I believe it is now time, Madam President, for this Parliament to deal with this very fundamental problem which should make us all ashamed and which requires this Parliament' s action.
VOTE Madam President, Recital M evidently refers to the definition which the Council of Europe gives for the term 'terrorist act' .
The Dutch text should read: "...en die leiden tot streven naar..." , and not only: "...die leiden..." , because there is no link between the violence and the pursuit at the moment, and it is clear that the Council of Europe did intend this link in the definition.
This risk is only referred to in the report on Poland.
We all hope that the coalition government in Slovakia will find a solution to the overall package of regional decentralisation.
I hope my group will follow my lead.
I can say categorically that the vast majority of these cases have been processed fully and properly by the Spanish authorities and by the families in question.
Indeed I know that they have resulted in many happy outcomes, some of which are known to my Spanish colleagues here in Parliament.
A minor error has crept into the nominal list, namely Amendment No 16 of the Liberals is identical to Amendment No 9 of the Group of the Greens.
Madam President, I must speak against taking this oral amendment into account.
Everyone knows that Cyprus has a complicated history and that mistakes have been made on both sides.
But it proposes very radical changes which can potentially pose problems for some of the Member States, particularly those in the front line of terrorism.
However, this does not preclude the Member States from identifying those areas where there are difficulties in cooperation between Member States and finding ways to improve such cooperation.
Effective measures need to be introduced to prevent the formation and activities of violent groups in Europe and collaboration between such groups.
Madam President, I voted against this report because it makes no mention of state terrorism.
The Belgian Presidency has already started intensive preparations to take even more violent action against "street terrorists" in the run up to the demonstrations being planned to coincide with the Laeken Summit.
Greece is one of the countries which recently pushed through special legislation supposedly designed to fight terrorism and organised crime.
It is for these reasons that the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
Madam President, I would especially like to thank you for your kindness in inviting the Members present to listen to my 17 - which are actually 16 - explanations of vote, apart from anything else because an anti-Fatuzzo amendment has been tabled in the document amending the Rules of Procedure, which seeks to limit the number of oral explanations of vote delivered during voting time to a maximum of three.
The rejection of the Verts/ALE amendment requiring that Member States reach such an agreement means that the report, which is serious and important, is fundamentally flawed.
This is of such fundamental importance to European citizens that regrettably this has prevented me from voting in favour of this report.
I would like to express my support for this own-initiative report, which urges Member States of the European Union to be better coordinated in the fight against terrorist acts.
Traditional forms of judicial and police cooperation are often found to be inadequate in combating this new form of terrorism, which stems from the activities of networks operating at international level, which are based in several countries and exploit legal loopholes arising from the geographical limits of investigations, sometimes enjoying extensive logistical and financial support.
We must, of course, condemn these acts, which traumatise whole families and create a climate of terror in the areas that are particularly affected.
To achieve this, Member States must continue to conduct education and social policies that aim to combat all forms of social, economic and cultural exclusion.
We will never, under any circumstances, give succour to those who seek to use force to undermine legitimate democratic institutions. , in writing.
We cannot use the fight against terrorism to undermine the legal procedures and democratic safeguards which differ between Member States.
Parliament chose not to adopt Amendment 1 which would have demanded these minimum standards.
I must also admit to an underlying unease about supporting a report which omits certain issues such as state terrorism, the proscription of certain organisations active in non-EU countries and the basis for such decisions and, indeed, the lack of a definition of "environmental terrorism" .
I do so in the hope that we will see meaningful cooperation between Member States in the eradication of violence and terrorism.
Ulster Unionists have stood against violence for decades and will continue to do so in the future.
We see the globalisation of terrorists with the arrest in Columbia of three activists in the IRA.
Ruffolo Report (A5-0281/2001) Madam President, two weeks ago I was in Verona.
Clearly, it is not just Italy which has cultural activities to share but the other 14 States of the European Union and the 12 candidate countries as well.
In its explanatory statement, the report calls on the Commission and Member States to show a greater commitment to culture.
These questions do not interest the European authorities, which are too preoccupied with regulating competition in the cultural business world.
We therefore voted against this report.
I welcome the fact that the European Parliament, the body that represents the aspirations of European citizens, has taken its right of initiative to urge the European Commission to propose firm measures in the area of culture.
Since 1974, the European Parliament has stressed the importance of developing a cultural policy at Community level, and for a good reason.
The Commission is also requested: to present to the Council and European Parliament a draft recommendation, in which the Commission will undertake to submit an annual report on cultural policies of the Union and of the Member States, and in which the Commission will call on the Member States to contribute actively to drawing up and carrying out a three-year cultural cooperation plan; to create a European agency to monitor cultural cooperation; to convene, as part of the review of the Culture 2000 framework programme, a second Cultural Forum which, on the basis of this resolution, will redefine the values, objectives and forms of cultural cooperation in Europe; to carry out a study into the opportunities for bringing principles more closely into line at Community level governing the tax treatment of works of art and artistic work; to restate, in view of the forthcoming WTO summit, the position of the European Union.
I voted for the Ruffolo report because I firmly believe that closer cultural cooperation will be mutually enriching.
Cultural cooperation in Europe is a fundamental aspect of closer European integration.
Schmitt Report (A5-0279/2001) Madam President, as you know, the number of elderly people and pensioners has been increasing constantly for some time now, which makes me very happy as representative of the Pensioners' Party.
However, we are not in favour of creating a European Aviation Safety Agency (AESA) on the basis proposed.
If this proposal comes to fruition, a uniform, high level of safety in civil aviation with common safety requirements will be created.
Although the problem of transalpine traffic to which Mr Swoboda refers in his report primarily affects Austria, it also relates to the entire Brenner corridor.
Italy and France are going to establish such limits - I recall a draft law I submitted to the Chamber of Deputies - together with the local communities, and communicate them to Europe so that Europe can modify the trans-European transport network and specify the changes in the Commission' s White Paper, which will also cover vehicle transit through the Alps.
The EU ceiling of 40 milligrams of nitrogen dioxide per cubic metre is constantly being exceeded by more than the tolerance margin in readings taken at the Vomp measuring station on the A12 autobahn.
He has confirmed what we have said all along, that basically the Nice Treaty is not necessary for enlargement.
Enlargement can go ahead without the Nice Treaty.
It is deplorable that our own government is trying to force people to change their minds.
In relation to the accession reports on the individual states, I have grave concern about the emphasis on the common foreign and security aspect, the fact that countries are being coerced into joining Nato.
The report on Malta, for example, deplores the fact that Malta is divided on the issue of membership.
I believe it is up to the Maltese themselves to decide on whether or not they want to join.
All of this is false.
Ireland' s economic success is not solely down to the EU, as many economic experts will tell you.
Madam President, in terms of the European Union' s enlargement process in general, I have to say that I voted for the motion.
With the accession of the candidate countries they will become even more numerous, and I can only rejoice that there will be lots of pensioners in Europe who might vote for the Pensioners' Party in the future.
There are three reasons why we welcome the debate that has just been held in Parliament on the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union.
The second reason is that we have remarked upon a change in tone when referring to the candidate countries, which are now treated like States that are worthy of respect.
The resolution even stresses that the European Union must ensure that the dignity of the people of the candidate countries is never compromised by making inappropriate demands upon them.
Let us hope that this new development will provide more than just a change in vocabulary.
Lastly, the third reason we welcome the debate is that paragraph 10 of the resolution appears to accept a more flexible Europe that is made up of various circles.
There are nonetheless quite a few aspects of the report and of the enlargement negotiations as a whole that are particularly open to criticism.
The return of these states to brutal capitalism and the increasing stranglehold of powerful investors from the west are already causing a considerable rise in social inequalities.
We do not therefore consider the development of a common defence to be of benefit either to present or future Member States, and we are opposed to involving NATO in a decision concerning enlargement of the EU.
Such arrangements would, for one thing, prolong the problem of illegal labour from candidate countries in current Member States and, for another, give people in the candidate countries the sense of being second-class citizens of the EU.
We welcome the fact that the rapporteur emphasises the necessity of putting both the environment and the social consequences of the arrangements into the equation; but, if enlargement is to be an equitable process, a minor adjustment in these two crucial areas is far from being sufficient.
The European Union' s leaders have given commitments to the candidate countries that they are now not only behind in fulfilling, but are also making unacceptable demands which could clearly threaten objectives that they are trumpeting and which should actually be the broad guidelines for accession negotiations, such as the peace, development and prosperity of all peoples, taking into consideration the principle of economic and social cohesion.
The European Union is therefore asking each candidate country to prove their ability to face up to competition by destroying their environment, their system for social protection and their means for a true policy of modernisation and full employment, thereby encouraging the development of poverty and unemployment.
Instead of this, the EU is preparing to welcome these new countries into the Community as members of a second division, commanded to apply the acquis communautaire and excluded from the effects of the CAP or even the structural funds.
In around thirty chapters, from agriculture to taxation, via the environment, SMEs, education and transport, the laws of the candidate countries, their administrations, their sociologies and even their morals are being closely examined with a police-style scrutiny that must remind these former countries suffused with a proletarian morality of heavy-handed practices that have still not been forgotten.
Many have received lectures on their levels of fraud and corruption, as if European VAT has not been, since 1993, a major factor for serious tax fraud.
An Anschluss, in fact.
This explains why the dossier has been entrusted to a German Commissioner and the European Parliament report to a member who is, as if by chance, also German.
The 1945 brackets are being closed.
It is true that Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary were recently persuaded to join NATO with the prospect of a possible acceleration in the accession process to the EU.
These countries' adoption of the Erika I and Erika II packages and their commitment to get on top of the issue of accepting flags of convenience should be made one of the priorities in accession negotiations.
The safety of our coastal regions depends on it.
Carlsson report (A5-0251/2001) Madam President, a few days ago, during the summer, I went on holiday to Estonia.
A long-term strategy for peace and prosperity would be aimed at opening the EU' s markets instead of making unreasonable demands upon the candidate countries to enact extensive legislation over which they have no influence.
Schroedter report (A5-0252/2001) Madam President, I voted for the accession of Latvia to the European Union.
In the Baltic States, there are many cultural treasures which I am sure many pensioners - and many young people as well - from throughout the European Union would like to visit.
It can only be a good thing to have the possibility of seeing these marvellous works of both nature and man in the European Union, which should therefore be enlarged to include Latvia as well.
Souladakis report (A5-0253/2001) Madam President, Lithuania has a great problem of energy and unemployment.
I voted for the motion but I call upon the European Union to provide more substantial financial and other aid to combat the lack of energy and the shortage of jobs in the State of Lithuania.
Gawronski report (A5-0254/2001) Madam President, Poland must be the first candidate country to enter the European Union.
This is because the peaceful revolution which brought Eastern Europe into the democratic world, the world of democracies, originated precisely in Poland, as we all know, with the work of Solidarnosc and the election of a Polish Pope.
As far as Poland is concerned, the government has shown its willingness to implement the necessary reforms that will allow it to join the European Union as soon as possible.
It is extremely important that a compromise agreement be reached between the Polish authorities and the Commission on Poland' s participation in the common agricultural policy and, on the basis of Commissioner Fischler' s proposals, to implement a phasing in of direct payments, which should gradually integrate the Polish agricultural sector into the Community system.
It also seems necessary to return to a question that has not been mentioned in the report for it raises too many controversial issues.
I am, of course, aware that the Polish authorities are finding it particularly difficult to solve this problem for both financial and emotional reasons.
A policy of information and communication should therefore accompany such measures to convince the Polish people of the advantages of joining the European Union.
Whatever happens, I would insist on the fact that, for citizens of both Member States and candidate countries, the cost of enlargement in every sense of the word is nothing when compared with the cost of non-enlargement.
But what exactly is the content of the acquis communautaire that the Polish people, especially the Polish farmers, can expect?
Yet the CAP reforms and structural funds require much more than strict budgetary calculations.
Candidate countries such as Poland should participate fully in the definition of an entirely new European agricultural policy.
We Members of Parliament are not normally late going to lunch, but I wanted to explain why I voted against Mrs Nicholson of Winterbourne' s and Mr Schröder' s reports.
I too did not support the Jürgen Schröder report, specifically because paragraphs 43 and 44 call into question the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant and, in fact, contradict the earlier paragraph 42 which welcomes the Melk Accord between the Czech Republic, the Austrian government and the European Commission in December 2000.
The content of that accord and, in particular, the investigations into the environmental impact assessment that was agreed, have substantially been carried out.
Madam President, the Czech Republic has asked to accede to the European Union and I have voted for the motion.
Point 7 of the report, on pages 7 and 8, says that, in order to reduce the deficit, the Czech Republic must reform its health and pension systems.
The health and pensions of the citizens must be the last item on a State' s budget to be altered.
It considers that, in this way, the concerns of future Spanish mothers and fathers, who have correctly carried out all the necessary procedures for adoption and have then been extremely alarmed by the revision measures and paralysis of cases adopted recently, may be effectively dealt with.
However, I wish to reiterate our position on paragraphs 42-44 of the report.
The Melk Accord between Austria and the Czech Republic has failed to achieve the desired results so far.
For that reason it was important to adopt paragraphs 43 and 44 of the Temelin report.
Wiersma report (A5-0256/2001) Slovakia has applied to enter the European Union and is making progress in incorporating the Community acquis into its legal system.
Only by sealing their markets off from disrupting and currency-consuming imports did they manage to protect their industry and create a level of security for 40 years.
Certainly in Slovakia, with its weak economy and Roma and Hungarian minorities which are not favoured by a majority of people, poverty not only incites an aversion to the EU, but also creates internal conflict.
Queiró report (A5-0257/2001) I voted for the report on the state of accession negotiations between Europe and Hungary.
Although I fully support this report, I would have preferred it if it had stated that the Hungarian citizens, in company, moreover, with all the other citizens of the States of Europe, should be informed that, in joining the European Union, they will benefit from being able to add the years of work performed in the State in which they live to the years of work they have performed in other States.
The fear that people will associate social regression with structural adjustment criteria imposed by the IMF or by the EU is shifting the debate.
The report 'welcomes (...) the approximately 60% rise in the national minimum wages, and calls on the Hungarian government to encourage the signing of collective bargaining agreements by industrial sectors' yet the substance of the social measures advocated evaporates when the report 'notes the adoption of a new labour code based on the principle of the flexibility and mobility of labour with a view to adapting the rules and organisation of the labour market to the need for economic growth...' This is a liberal formula that we do not accept, either for the new candidate countries or for the European Union as it stands today.
The situation is, however, that following consultation with the Hungarian authorities, I have been informed that the penal provision in question only affects homosexual relations involving partners under 18 years of age.
Consequently, although I requested a split vote on this matter, I have voted against the paragraph in question.
Van Orden report (A5-0258/2001) Bulgaria has also applied to join the European Union.
I am somewhat concerned by the political situation in this State, Madam President.
Nicholson of Winterbourne report (A5-0259/2001) Madam President, on the Nicholson report, I voted against it because paragraph 20 seeks to delay the completion of the second nuclear reactor at Cernavoda.
Paragraph 20 of the report calls for the creation of a sustainable energy strategy.
Well then, these ties have convinced me still further to do all I can and to support the - moreover, extremely positive - report on the state of Romania' s accession negotiations.
These young journalists were totally amazed at the deep concerns many of us have about all aspects of childcare in Romania.
Our concerns about trafficking in children as the world was beating a path to their door in search of children became obscured between the desperation of parents looking for children to adopt and the clear indications that many of those who were facilitating commercial trafficking in children became part of the politics of Romania, and indeed those countries whose nationals were pressurising for open adoption, notably the USA.
Firm political leadership, exceptional economic signals, clear articulation of, and commitment to, the reform process...' Yet its true intentions come to light later on: '...a NATO decision to invite Romania to become a member of the North Atlantic Alliance in 2002 would be an important contribution to regional security; welcomes therefore Romania' s efforts to satisfy the requisite conditions for NATO membership and, in particular, Romania' s efforts to restructure its military sector and to adjust its defence policy' .
There is the strong possibility that Romania will be offered NATO membership as a substitute for accession to the European Union, which is increasingly unimaginable, since the reforms are prohibitive for development due to the huge costs involved in integration.
For these reasons, we were not able to vote for this report.
Volcic report (A5-0260/2001) Madam President, I voted for the report which acknowledges the state of the accession negotiations between Slovenia and the European Union.
However, Alleanza Nazionale cannot vote for Slovenia' s accession today because of the indifference displayed by the Slovenian government towards the legitimate, longstanding claims of the Italian exiles.
The accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the European Union is clearly a very different issue from the accession of the countries of Eastern Europe.
The accession of Cyprus carries far more weight and is far more important because it could be used as a lever for finding a fair solution to the Cyprus question based on UN resolutions and for defusing political tensions in the eastern Mediterranean, especially following the invasion of the northern part of the island by Turkish forces, which have persisted in their barbaric occupation for more than a quarter of a century now.
Accession will not disadvantage any of the communities on the island and it is interesting that, despite opposition from Turkey and the Denktash regime, the majority of Turkish Cypriots, 90% according to a recent article in the Turkish newspaper Radikal, are in favour of the accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the European Union.
If the Council takes its cue from the European Parliament, instead of constantly giving in to pressure from Turkey, we would have positive and quick results both for the Republic of Cyprus and for the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities.
Poos report (A5-0261/2001) . (EL) The only good thing about the report by the Temporary Committee on the Echelon Interception System is that it admits that such a system exists and that similar systems also probably exist.
The report talks of "democratic monitoring and control" and "calls on the monitoring bodies responsible for scrutinising the activities of the secret services, when exercising their monitoring powers, to attach great importance to the protection of privacy, regardless of whether the individuals concerned are their own nationals, other EU nationals or third country nationals" .
It voices a degree of concern about industrial espionage, clearly in order to protect the excessive profits raked in by the monopolies.
In all events, the report proposes encoding messages as the main form of protection.
It is for these reasons that the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
I divided my time equally between the Greek and Turkish parts of Cyprus.
There was no difference between the first and second parts of the holiday: I had a wonderful time in both Northern and Southern Cyprus.
I therefore hope that Cyprus will enter the European Union as soon as possible.
I voted against the motion on Echelon because, in my view: First, it plays down the importance and the role of a global monitoring system which is directed by the USA and to which a Member State belongs (United Kingdom).
Had the amendments tabled by my friend Andrew Duff been passed, I would have been able to support the report.
Europe has, in recent years, seen and accepted the separation of the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the dissolution of the former Soviet Union and the gradual break up of Yugoslavia.
In practice, however, this will pose formidable problems due to the illegal occupation of the northern part of the island, 37% of the total territory, by Turkey since 1974.
The European Union considers that the Cypriot government in the southern part of the island represents the whole island, in accordance with international law, and that it is therefore negotiating for the accession of all the island' s inhabitants.
Poos, on his report.
Measures are required to promote women' s access to training and employment, improve the situation of women in the jobs market and help them to achieve a better balance between life and work.
I therefore think it is regrettable that Cyprus is not taking part in the Community programme on equal opportunities for women and men.
In light of Cyprus' forthcoming accession to the European Union, Cypriot legislation needs to be adapted further to bring it fully into line with the other Member States, and gender issues should be dealt with in the framework of the Karolus programme, which aims to bring about better application of the Community acquis by an exchange of national civil servants.
Unfortunately, this Cypriot state of unity which was established in 1960 did not appear to be viable and fell apart as early as 1964.
Collins report (A5-0249/2001) This last report concerns the communication on the protection of passengers who travel by air.
The Commission' s proposal on which the report is based offers better protection to air transport users, especially as regards access to information about their rights as passengers.
The report also goes so far as to recommend additional measures aimed at protecting the rights of all European citizens, such as those with disabilities.
In their competing efforts to systematically bleed the planet, the big powers use political and military espionage as an instrument of their rivalry.
The industrial and commercial secrecy extolled by all the defenders of the capitalist system in order to conceal from their people the many ways in which they appropriate and waste the riches of society is inevitably accompanied by industrial espionage.
Even the changes introduced by some of the amendments for which we voted do not alter our opposition to the report as a whole or our disagreement with all the minority opinions, the most innocent of which differ from the majority text only in the derisory desire to improve, control or enhance the morality of a system that can neither be controlled nor made more moral.
Now, in early September 2001, everyone (or nearly everyone) recognises that this American illegal espionage network covers much of the world and is 'watching' the commercial markets and the citizens' private lives!
True, this system is 'performing' less well than might have been feared, but it exists and that is intolerable!
I can understand the views of some of them, because they are true democrats.
Nothing will ever really be the same again, whether in regard to the WTO negotiations, the development of new technologies or research (see my amendments to the Sixth Research Framework Programme)!
The report has a positive aspect, but all too many negative ones.
Among the negative aspects, the following three points, in particular, must be emphasised: 1.
The committee has chosen to focus upon the illegal interception of communications from private businesses and completely plays down the serious infringement of the right to privacy as formulated in, for example, the European Convention on Human Rights.
What is more, the Committee draws no political conclusions in this area other than that the obligation under the Human Rights Convention to safeguard citizens' fundamental rights is also of benefit to individual citizens, who are urged to use encryption to protect themselves against the illegal interception of communications. 3.
The Committee observes that one Member State is participating in the ECHELON cooperation on the illegal interception of communications.
The fight for human rights is seemingly strongest when solemn speeches have to be made.
It is unacceptable that a network should be maintained for the gathering and processing, in a secret and completely unmonitored way, of potentially any type of information, specifically political, economic and military, which clearly breaches the fundamental right to respect for privacy, enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, which demonstrates the need to completely dismantle this global telecommunications interception network.
It is incomprehensible that in the report' s conclusions, no request is even made to the United Kingdom to disassociate itself from the Echelon system and to Germany to close the interception base located in its territory.
However, there are 3 main reasons why I voted against the Report.
Firstly, I believe that member states involved in ECHELON must disengage from this murky, undemocratic system - the report does not make this clear.
Secondly, I feel there is a calm acceptance in this Report that the EU must run an intelligence system as part of the CFSP.
The rapporteur answered yes to the first question.
Secondly, since it has become clear during our activities that the European Union cannot embark on any large-scale defence and security operation without technical and logistical support from NATO, is there any point in laying the foundations for a European system equivalent to Echelon without first giving a political clarification of the relations between the European states that are members of Echelon and the Union, and in particular between the Union and NATO?
The plain fact is that the majority of this Parliament - the same Parliament that adopted preventive 'apartheid' measures against the new, democratically elected Austrian government, that seriously considered placing Silvio Berlusconi' s government under surveillance - is refusing to take measures against Member States that have now been proven to be supporting an activity that contravenes the provisions of the Treaty, that does serious damage to European firms and represents a permanent threat to individual freedoms.
The least one could say is that there are indisputably two weights and two measures and that to be fair we can only describe this business as a real scandal.
The conclusion should be that the United Kingdom should choose between membership with the EU and that of ECHELON, that cooperation with this system on the part of citizens of EU Member States will be penalised, that similar espionage systems of other Member States will be abandoned and that telephone traffic will no longer be tapped.
The passive stance of a two-thirds majority of this Parliament is sanctioning a Europe of snoopers.
There needs to be an enquiry into the United Kingdom' s behaviour in order to understand fully not just the government' s responsibilities but also what European sentiments link the United Kingdom to the rest of the European Union and even whether these sentiments and political will actually exist.
These are important questions which require a committee of inquiry to be set up. - (FR) There are two main reasons why I am opposed to the motion for a resolution drawn up on behalf of Parliament' s Temporary Committee on the Echelon interception system.
At the same time, if, as its supporters say, Echelon can act as an effective multilateral instrument in the fight against organised crime, terrorism, drugs and arms trafficking and money laundering, then it is not a covenant of mutual good intentions that we need to sign with the United States.
What we need to negotiate is the means of enabling every state that wishes to be involved in active international cooperation in these essential areas to join the Echelon system, which would thus become an open system.
I find it absolutely incomprehensible, not to say outrageous, that the European Parliament, particularly the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to which I belong, should have rejected certain amendments - the ones I referred to when I spoke during the debate: Nos 16, 17, 18, 19 and 22 - which seek explicitly to emphasise that large-scale, indiscriminate interceptions such as those performed by Echelon are a blatant violation of the human rights recognised by the European Convention on Human Rights and other international conventions.
In rejecting these amendments, with the support of the majority of socialists, Parliament has implicitly made it possible - although it may not be completely aware of this - for the private communications of European citizens henceforth to be listened in to by Echelon and similar systems 24 hours a day, with no respect for the principles of legality and proportionality upheld by the European Convention on Human Rights and our Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Since the end of last year, the summits of the European Council have also become the subject of massive protest campaigns.
Unfortunately, the protests in Nice, Gothenburg and Genoa were attended by a high level of violence despite the fact that the organisers of the protests had dissociated themselves from the violence.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union must respond in two ways to the events I have just described.
Firstly, it must prevent violence, whatever form it takes, in order to safeguard the area of freedom, security and justice that the Union represents, not just in law but also in fact.
As you no doubt are aware, the Justice and Home Affairs Council considered the first aspect at its 13 July meeting, while the General Affairs Council considered the second one on 16 July.
The Council of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers called for close international cooperation based on the existing legal instruments and the use of instruments such as the provisions of the Convention applying the Schengen Agreement and the joint action of 26 May 1997 on cooperation in the field of law and order and security.
Nonetheless, responsibility for the maintenance of law and order on the territory of EU Member States always remains within the sole remit of each state' s national authorities.
The Commission and the Council will publish a detailed rationale of the already very positive role played by the European Union in this regard.
The Council considers that the political debate on globalisation and the dialogue with European civil society is a task which the European Union must carry out in the coming years so that it can influence its repercussions and fully benefit from its advantages.
I will therefore not make the same mistake, but what I would say, on behalf of the presidency and on my own behalf, is that anti-establishment activity in itself is a good thing.
It is therefore paradoxical for the protesters to fight precisely those institutions and organisations.
Over and above laying down the necessary rules to contain globalisation, the members of the international community must pursue a deliberate policy to safeguard international peace, to share the benefits of the growth of world trade more fairly and to ensure greater respect for the principles of justice, democracy and respect for human rights.
In this context, the international organisations, in particular the United Nations, must play the role their founder expected of them.
The European Union is particularly well equipped to cope with globalisation.
The Union has managed to reconcile the establishment of a single market with respect for social justice and environmental standards.
The European Union and its institutions therefore have a great deal to do in the way of clarification.
I told you that we propose to embark on this task, but we can only do so in a peaceful context, free from violence. (Applause) Madam President and honourable Members, I am glad to present on behalf of the President of the Commission a report on the G7/G8 summit in Genoa.
From 20 to 22 July this year, the Commission President took part in the G7/G8 summit, together with the current President of the European Council, Guy Verhofstadt.
These events confirmed that the G8 needs to engage in a genuine dialogue with civil society and with non-member countries.
Demonstrators must have the opportunity to express their opinions.
However, violence disfigures any demonstration, even one held in an honourable cause.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council discussed these issues in late July, and the events at Genoa show how urgent it now is to take action.
But I would like to remind all of you that according to Article 33 of the Treaty the primary responsibility for the maintenance of law and order lies with the Member States.
The decisions of the Justice and Home Affairs Council were built upon the existing structures and existing legal instruments, which means that there will be no specific institutions to deal with these issues.
It goes without saying that the Commission has always stressed the need for all police and judicial actions to respect the civil and human rights of the citizens and the legislation providing for privacy protection and for the respect of civil liberties.
We have to reflect on a political response to the two hundred thousand demonstrators in Genoa.
We believe that the European Parliament should play a major role in promoting this dialogue.
The Union has to support those political leaders, especially in Africa, who are on the side of democracy.
It has to prevent illegal trafficking in arms between the North and the South.
Policies such as the "Everything but Arms" initiative that has opened up our markets to products from the least-developed countries are a good example of this approach.
The Commission is well aware of the growing importance of civil society and is eager to involve citizens' associations and NGOs in shaping and implementing EU policies.
We need to engage in an open and systematic dialogue with civil society and to involve all stakeholders in designing the Union' s policies.
It is also essential to strengthen the Union' s voice and influence in the world so that Europe can make a greater contribution to international prosperity and stability.
This was a very useful meeting, enabling important representatives of southern countries to express their views directly and frankly and to discuss matters openly with the G8 Heads of State and Government.
The Commission for its part can be satisfied with several of the decisions taken at Genoa.
During the discussion on trade, President Putin stated that Russia was ready to follow the example set by the European Union in its "Everything But Arms" initiative.
The purpose of this international fund, which will not be limited to the G8 countries, is to help reduce poverty by dealing with the problem of AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
The Community, for its part, is committed to providing EUR 120 million.
We are sensitive to the fact that several aspects of the G8 will have to be changed in the future and not just cosmetically.
The Commission, for its part, will encourage a return to the original spirit of the G8 summits.
Indeed a joint decision was taken in Genoa to reduce the size of delegations and the summit to be held in Canada next year will be much simpler and - we hope - more effective.
Indeed, in recent weeks, we have endeavoured to discuss issues of law and order, and we will have the opportunity to deal with this subject as well.
We would have liked to launch this debate in Parliament on the contents of the summit before the summit actually took place, but were prevented from doing so by the rejection of our proposal by many left-wing Parliamentary groups.
We are convinced that, for the first time, as Commissioner Vitorino pointed out, the G8 witnessed a focused debate on practical issues between the leaders of the world' s most industrialised countries and the leaders of the African countries, in which they discussed practical issues and also launched a project for cooperation on the proposal for African union, presented by the industrialised countries with the aim of setting up a partnership with these countries.
An operation to reduce the debt of 23 countries by USD 50 billion, which is 70% of the total debt, was launched.
Positive, tangible results were achieved, but then it was attempted to turn the G8 summit into a mere question of law and order.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Socialist Group has requested this debate for two reasons.
The first is because the conclusions and work of the G8 summit were obscured because the debate concentrated on public order.
However, in any event, ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to point out is that we clearly said that the President of the Commission and the President of the Council were in the Genoa photo and we regret that they have not had time to come to this debate if they considered it so important.
In addition to this there is our firm position on Kyoto which, despite United States resistance, has allowed us to reach a solution in Bonn.
I believe that as a Parliament we must bring this to account and hold a debate because, furthermore, my political family, the Party of European Socialists, which is a member of the Socialist International - we are internationalists and we have been globalised since the Nineteenth Century - is an organisation which is present in 160 countries in the world, and is not just an organisation of white men, that is to say, it is an organisation of all continents.
Therefore, the issue of globalisation which, at our last congress of the International in Paris, two years ago, led to a resolution on the challenges of globalisation, must be, as far as we are concerned, a permanent element of European policy.
Lastly, a comment on issues of public order.
My group has said, from the outset, that it is awaiting the conclusion of the investigation which is being carried out in the Italian Parliament on these issues, because we respect the Parliament of an important democracy which is a member of the European Union.
This does not prevent us from demonstrating a very critical position in relation to the rights of European citizens contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
There are no public order policies which restrict citizens - and I say this to the Belgian Presidency - in their right to demonstrate and give vent to their feelings.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the events of the last G8 summit in Genoa could prevent us from focusing on the genuine major issues at hand.
In this sense, far from being an inevitable source of suffering, globalisation is proving to be a great opportunity to genuinely change the balance of play in the world and confront the dreadful scourges afflicting much of humanity which, in these times in which we live, mean that none of us can be sure of our moral innocence.
The basic need is therefore to identify a political and institutional position which is acceptable to everybody and which can be used as a guideline for the globalisation processes.
There is no current "off-the-shelf" recipe, but I feel that we could start from proposal of the 1996 Nobel Peace Prizewinner who envisages a permanent summit made up of the European Union, the G8, the World Bank, the group of 77 developing countries, Onlus and undertakings to launch and manage a great, worldwide Marshall Plan based on a common universal strategy.
It is true that we heard a rather timid acknowledgement of the importance of relieving the debt burden on the poorest countries, but no more than that.
The WTO' s decision-making rules are indeed unfair in that they penalise the poorest countries compared with the rich ones, if only by giving the poor countries limited access to the information that would enable them to play a proper part in this decision making.
So, no response at all, no real response to the demands and protests of tens of thousands of demonstrators - and, more generally, of a very broad sector of European public opinion - who reject or challenge a globalisation that is essentially financial and commercial.
In this context I welcome the Belgian government' s proposal to debate the Tobin tax at the next Ecofin summit.
The European Parliament and the national parliaments must be the forum where the governments explain their initiatives.
Like everyone here, I deplore and condemn the violence of the Black Blockers demonstrators but, at the same time, I can only condemn the unacceptable behaviour of the Italian police who trampled on human rights in Genoa.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the morning after the G8 meeting my group, which was very much present in Genoa, immediately called for this debate to be entered on the agenda of this new session of Parliament.
The conservative majority in this Parliament, which is feeling very defensive, prevented this debate from concluding with a resolution in which Parliament expressed its opinion.
For the rest, I proposed that we set up a monitoring committee right here to work in liaison with Italian members of parliament, the Social Forum in Genoa and other partners who wish to help discover the whole truth of the matter.
In the same spirit, we have reiterated our support for players in the social movement who do not want to see their message be perverted by acts of violence of the Black Block type, which our enemies find easy to manipulate.
That brings me to the third, and perhaps in our view the principal issue of the aftermath of Genoa, namely the political responses we will or will not be able to make to the questions asked by these men, these women, these innumerable young people who are quite wrongly labelled anti-globalist, whereas most of the time what they seek is a democratic globalisation based on solidarity.
At a time when the European Union is debating its future, its ambitions on the world stage and its relations with civil society, we for our part do not see these questions as a threat to be averted, but far more as a chance we must seize if we want Europe to move forward.
Our aid must be targeted at genuinely benefiting communities rather than adding to the economic and political wealth of governments who have contributed to exacerbating the wretched conditions in which their peoples live and continue to prevent respect for human rights.
Unfortunately, even the legitimate opinions of the peaceful demonstrators were obscured by the globalised violence of those who have become professional rioters.
Moreover, in the face of Commissioner Vitorino' s call for greater cooperation to prevent violence, we wonder why Echelon which, with the help of Great Britain, listens in on everything that happens in Europe, did not warn us before Gothenburg and Genoa and help to prevent the violence which took place there.
It is not Italy which needs to be placed under observation but that part of Europe which speaks of human rights in this Chamber and then allows those same rights to be violated, and the self-interested generosity of certain left-wing voices which condemn violence as a means of persuasion.
Europe must regain a sense of European Union rather than national self-interest!
Madam President, when it comes to political responses to globalisation, we ask you not to force us to choose between Genoa and Durban, between the G8 summit of the major democracies of the western world, the Genoa Summit, and the UN meeting in Durban.
Otherwise, we would be saying we are dissatisfied with both the G8 method and the method of this European Union.
It should not be possible for the universal moratorium on the death penalty not to have been approved by the UN.
It is a question of involving the parliaments and all the citizens, broadcasting the debates on these issues to them live via audiovisual communications and the Internet, opening the doors of these international summits to all citizens and revitalising the democratic model and the rule of law.
This, I believe, is the way to improve the G8 summits and this European Union, and it is the alternative to satisfying those who call for institutions in which the worst dictatorships in the world have the right of veto to be at the central controls of globalisation.
Madam President, I would like to thank the Belgian Presidency and Commissioner Vitorino for their introduction and to make two points of a political nature.
Secondly, I am sure that the goal of all the Members of this House is to achieve increasingly closer Union between the peoples of Europe, and that we base our future work and our political activity on consensus, democracy and the law.
Well then, with regard to the Genoa Summit and the messages which subsequently emerged through the media, what concerns me is an attempt to deny representative democracy.
However, we cannot fail to express here our deep pain at the loss of a young human life, that of Carlo Giuliani, and our unequivocal condemnation of the violence perpetrated by minority groups in Genoa and elsewhere, and our concern at excessive crowd control measures employed to protect the citizens by sections of the police force who had assumed responsibility for the citizens' safety.
However, partly due to the attention that the movement has succeeded in drawing to these summits, it would be almost impossible to avoid addressing the role of the poorest countries and undertaking more convincing action with regard to the issues of debt, poverty, trade, the fight against disease and the environment.
The European Commission' s "Everything but Arms" initiative was consolidated by the final statement from Genoa.
Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of Italia dei Valori, an Italian political movement belonging to the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party which was present at Genoa and witnessed the events which took place there.
It is necessary - and this is the third point - for Parliament too to issue, first and foremost, a clear, unambiguous statement condemning and reproaching these people for their actions: they are the criminals who sparked off the violence.
The divide that, from Nice to Gothenburg to Genoa and, perhaps tomorrow to Laeken - even if the Minister' s fine words perhaps give us grounds for optimism - is being erected, for right or for wrong, whether we like it or not, between people who, in good faith, want to take action for a better world and the institutions - the police, Parliament, government - is something that should concern us all, on both left and right.
Here, we must make a precise assessment of the lines along which the cooperation between European police forces was conducted and ascertain whether or not the Charter of Fundamental Rights was violated in the treatment of prisoners.
A few hundred hooligans, then, between 600 and 800 according to the Italian police themselves, were left to run riot in Genoa, even though it was known where they were staying, to destroy businesses, banks and public property, while the full strength of the police was most brutally unleashed against the peaceful demonstrators.
I was in Genoa over those days and I was a direct witness of the police jeeps driven at full speed and the police charges against peaceful marches, as well as the hundreds of tear-gas grenades thrown at thousands of defenceless people, amongst whom were children and disabled persons.
I then went to the prisons where hundreds of young people had been transferred - Italians, Spanish, Germans, Austrians, Swedes, Swiss, aged between 18 and 20, and I collected their statements: all of them, I repeat all of them, had been beaten, insulted or tortured, many had stitches in their heads, and all that had happened in the barracks after their arrest.
The attitude emerging here of underestimation by the Council, and also by part of the political groupings represented here in Parliament, of the general trend dramatically revealed in Genoa which is taking hold of Italy, is therefore - if I may say so - irresponsible, not only towards democracy but also towards these groupings themselves.
For much less, for Haider' s idle talk, Austria was subjected to surveillance and sanctions by the other 14 Member States of the Union.
There is one point, however, which unites us all, which is: what can Europe do?
Minister, you have said that Europe can be a model in facing the problems of tomorrow' s globalisation.
But it would really respond to their concerns if Europe had a voice and an instrument to express this idea forcefully in the world.
If we want Europe to respond to the concerns of globalisation, let us move ahead on the road towards building a political Union and giving Europe a single voice.
If, at a G8 summit, there were not four European states speaking but just one speaking on behalf of the whole of Europe, there would no longer be a great America and a number of little States; there would be two voices with the same weight.
Minister, your government could make a great contribution in this direction at Laeken by presenting and taking forward a draft Constitution that is not divorced from the reality of the problems, as the debate still is today, but which, in a few years' time, when the euro has become the common currency and globalisation is no longer a contentious issue, can be an instrument for Europe to speak in the world with a single voice and as a single political unit.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the events of Genoa show us several things.
Lucas Casarini, leader of the White Overalls movement, said as much in an interview with La Repubblica.
These people are no longer socialist internationalists, proletarian internationalists, but they are still internationalists.
Madam President, after the spirit of Rambouillet at the first G5 summit, we have reached the sad events in Genoa and many of us are beginning to think that these summits have become too large, unwieldy and bureaucratic and have lost the old, productive atmosphere of confidential meetings.
To achieve this outcome, they use the European Parliament, organising in Parliament, as they did yesterday, for example, meetings with exponents of antiglobalisation movements that spread ridiculous, false accusations and offend a European Union Member State by calling it an incomplete democracy that should be placed under supervision.
My question is quite obvious and simple: if a left-wing government had been in power in Italy, would there have been the same mobilisation of forces in this Parliament, with pilgrimages by our fellow Members who had never dreamt of going to previous summits but who - as if by coincidence - were present in Genoa?
I hope that the protests in Genoa and elsewhere never succeed in preventing world leaders from continuing to talk to each other, as could well happen.
Madam President, the Socialists are opposed to globalisation if it stands for survival of the fittest, but welcomes globalisation with a human dimension.
World trade is flourishing, but the richest countries earn 37 times more than the poorest countries, and despite the enormous increase in world trade over the past few years, the chasm between rich and poor has only widened.
One in five people who live in this global village still have no access to education or health care.
We must defend our social model within and outside our borders, and, therefore, assume our responsibility, as well as support new social and innovative solutions.
I also have in mind the fact that, while the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, has earmarked EUR 120 million for our Global Health Fund, this is money taken from our own pocket.
If Europe wants to be a friend to those who wish globalisation to have a human dimension, if it wants to listen seriously and be an example to all those who take to the streets out of concern, it will have to make it happen by taking action of its own and adopting appropriate policy.
The Christian Democrats and right-wingers in this House have rejected the resolution and made it clear that they will also reject a committee of enquiry.
This is not merely a matter for the Italian police, for these young people all over Europe have waited for this first session, hopeful that the guardians of fundamental rights sit here in this House and that this House will not remain silent or make common cause with Italy' s rightist government.
We register here the strongest possible protest against the Italian government and police forces, who were tolerant and permissive with the violent, but savage against the innocent.
We also here express our utter condemnation of the mindless violence by some groups of demonstrators and our severe criticism of those organisers who reject violence in words but who were unable or unwilling, in fact, to break off all relations with those in the movement who preached or advocated violence.
Madam President, the European Parliament should take a very balanced view when its debate covers the responsibilities of national parliaments, so as not to give the impression of interfering in the various countries' affairs in one way or another.
We should reflect on this paradox and initiate a dialogue with the young people, giving politics back its role.
We should not confuse the Black Block that was looking for violence with those who were exercising their right to demonstrate in the streets.
Madam President, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs is going to make a recommendation on the proposal presented to us by the Justice and Home Affairs Council with a view to ensuring public order during meetings.
We are going to place value on the need to defend the freedom and fundamental rights of citizens.
Since the Treaty of Nice, the European Parliament has had the duty to exercise the right to monitor respect for these rights and that is conferred on us by the Treaty.
We must also exercise democratic control of the security measures proposed by the Council, of their proportionality and effectiveness.
But I believe that today, Madam President, what we must demand of the European institutions above all is a political reaction to a situation which is not a natural catastrophe, for which a civil protection plan can be presented, as Minister Duquesne appeared to do a few days ago in our committee, but a political phenomenon which we must react to.
And that reaction must also, and above all, come from this European Parliament.
We in this Parliament have the obligation to create fora for political mediation given a demand which is becoming stronger and stronger, and we must do so above all because the European Union has this democratically elected institution.
It is the only international organisation which has one and, given the widespread feeling that there is a lack of opportunity to exercise political demand in an international forum, we must be able to take a step forward and to offer this forum as soon as possible, in the hope that the other institutions will do the same.
Like others, I regret that we do not have a resolution in front of us in which we could have expressed our complete condemnation of police brutality and of the violence of the Black Block at Genoa, our conviction that those responsible must be brought to justice, our commitment to uphold the right to protest peacefully, and our determination to clarify the growing evidence that much of the violence and damage to property which occurred in Genoa was the work of agents provocateurs.
But we have another task before us and that is to address the reasons fully why 300 000 people chose - in their own time, and at their own expense - to go to Genoa, just as hundreds of thousands have gone to Seattle, to Gothenburg and elsewhere to demonstrate about the continuing debt burden of the poor, about the increasing and grotesque inequalities between rich and poor and about the growing corporate control of many aspects of our lives.
For example, it is the EU which is ruthlessly driving forward the agenda for a new, ambitious, comprehensive round of trade talks at Doha in November in the face of opposition from the majority of developing countries and of social movements around the world.
Commissioner Vitorino said that there was agreement in Mexico last weekend.
Well, there might have been agreement between the Quad countries, but it certainly was not endorsed by the African countries, the LDCs, India, Malaysia, Indonesia, the list goes on.
Moreover, in most EU Member States, the level of official development assistance remains far below the UN target and, contrary to the Gothenburg declaration, the Council is proposing for its 2002 budget a further 3.2% cut in commitments on foreign aid compared to last year' s budget.
As Members of the European Parliament, we have a responsibility to ensure that the citizens of the European Union continue to enjoy the right to protest peacefully.
Madam President, I went to Genoa at the invitation of the Genoa Social Forum and I was surprised because I had never seen such police conduct, and I say that having fought for democracy and freedom in Spain since 1966.
Not even under the Franco dictatorship did the police behave as I witnessed in Genoa.
It was more similar to the situation which I experienced on 11 September 1973 in Santiago, Chile, when Pinochet' s coup d' état took place.
Mr President, although we do not yet know the full story of the police violence inflicted on the anti-globalisation protestors at the recent G8 summit in Genoa, there is enough evidence to suggest that the death of the young protestor Carlo Giuliani was not just caused by a police blunder.
Even if it does not suit those who have a narrow conception of the sovereignty of states, we must make it clear that the events of Genoa do not come only under the heading of Italy' s domestic affairs but directly concern the European institutions, and chiefly among them the European Parliament because it is directly elected.
First of all, Europe is concerned because the Union must not simply be a stepping stone of liberal globalisation, but also an area of freedom in which the citizens have the rights guaranteed under the European Convention on Human Rights and, more recently, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Furthermore, when citizens of all nationalities come together to exercise their collective freedom, their freedom of opinion and their right to demonstrate, it is the duty of the European Community to guarantee that they can effectively exercise these rights.
Secondly, Europe must not remain inert in face of such disturbing manipulative operations.
Europe cannot allow a government in its midst to use methods that are so incompatible with the values of democracy and freedom in which it believes.
I deplore the rejection of the proposal to table a European Parliament resolution on the subject.
Like some of my socialist comrades and other colleagues, I will play an active part in the monitoring group referred to by Francis Wurtz and we will carefully examine the conclusions of the Italian committee of inquiry.
Without wishing to play down the responsibility of the Italian government, we would point out that the suppressive measures taken in Genoa originate in the European Union with the Schengen Agreement, police collaboration, the decisions taken by the Council on 13 July and the preparations to crush demonstrations in Belgium.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several among you have called for a dialogue with civil society in general and for a dialogue with this Parliament and the national parliaments, in particular.
One should obviously have the right to demonstrate, protest and say whatever it may be in whatever way, but it is not acceptable that some are killed in the process, or are physically or mentally injured.
My baptism - and I hope it will not be a baptism of fire - will take place tomorrow evening.
That is correct, but I also said at the beginning of my speech that in the Justice and Home Affairs Council, within the remit of the Union and by means of existing instruments, we will do whatever is necessary to prevent as much as possible the escalation of violence.
Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I believe that this debate is leaning towards recognition of the need to structure the political debate on how to regulate globalisation.
That is why I want to point out, in reply to Mr Barón Crespo, that President Prodi genuinely wanted to attend this debate today.
My second point relates to the issue in question.
We work together very closely with Parliament and what we are trying to do is to establish areas of negotiation that also take direct account of issues such as the environmental balance, the social agenda and the interests of the less-developed countries.
What I said, and in fact that is what Article 33 of the Treaty also provides for, is that the maintenance of law and order is primarily the responsibility of the Member States.
In 1997, the Council approved a joint action on the maintenance of law and order.
It may be that few people paid attention to the contents of that decision at the time, but it exists and the conclusions of the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 13 July are based on this joint action dating from 1997.
The joint action provides for cooperation between law enforcement and judicial authorities in order to safeguard public order at European-level meetings and places it within the framework of the Europol Convention.
That means we have a legislative text that regulates European cooperation on the maintenance of law and order.
The truth is that the Italian government respected its obligations under the Schengen Agreements by reintroducing border checks at the time of the G8 summit in Genoa.
They are limited responsibilities but that, Mrs Frassoni, is another matter entirely.
The debate is closed.
I must start, however, by saying that the Commission itself should, I believe, take greater account of the fact that the difficulties and delays in implementing directives in the Member States mean that we are in danger of having European laws that are increasingly specific and detailed, which attempt to keep up with technological progress, but then we find ourselves updating a 1997 directive, now four years old, when this directive has still not been implemented by all the Member States: it is a specific directive relating to a general directive from 1995 which itself has not yet been adopted by the Member States.
It is therefore this legislative method that should probably be debated!
The Commission is right to insist on and uphold this point.
On the other point - unsolicited commercial e-mails - I have preferred, and the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights has followed me, not to accept the Commission proposal of imposing a harmonised Europe-wide opt-in system, but to leave each Member State the choice of opting in or opting out.
I also believe that today there are instruments for self-regulation, filters and technologies that can solve the problem much more flexibly and effectively than the courts can.
We want to make Europol and Eurojust more effective but, at the same time, set clear limits.
Coordination within the EU is also required so that our measures are not rendered ineffective at a global level.
We also want to change the term 'labelling' .
It is too early at this stage to abolish subsidiarity and force everyone to give up the status quo with its freedom of choice and instead to introduce an opt-in clause.
This is not to say that this is a bad intervention, but I would vote for an opt-in system for e-mails.
In the UK, members of the so-called "Wonderland Club" , an Internet paedophilia ring, were arrested and found to have sites in 12 different European countries.
Obviously we need coordination at international level and obviously the role of the Member States and of the European Union is to operate in international organisations with an appropriate strategy because we cannot resolve the problem alone.
Presentation by the Council of the draft general budget for 2002 The next item is the presentation by the Council of the draft general budget for 2002.
Mr President, with this speech, I should like to resume the dialogue between the two arms of the budgetary authority, namely the European Parliament and the Council.
This dialogue was started in the framework of the Interinstitutional Agreement by means of various trilogues and a consultation meeting in July, on the very day that the Council adopted the draft budget for 2002.
Even if this consultation does not reap any immediate benefits, the discussions at the Council will still be affected by this during the coming months until the end of the budgetary procedure in December.
In addition, it is true that, at the time of the consultation, the Council' s preparatory activities for July' s sitting had already reached an advanced stage, and that compromise solutions had already been found in order to remove various obstacles which had emerged between the Member States themselves.
Those contacts, which start out in February and March, coincide with the informal trilogue in the capital of the presidency, and will be developed at different levels until the Council in July.
To start with, the draft budget is completely consistent with the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and the improvement guidelines for the budgetary procedure.
The Council deems it of particular importance to keep to each of the annual maximum amounts for expenditure, as laid down in the financial perspectives and based on the recent EP and Council decision to adjust the financial perspectives with regard to budget implementation, and on the technical adjustment to GNP and price development, implemented by the Commission.
The Council has ensured, insofar as is possible, that sufficiently wide margins will be maintained in respect of the maximum amounts for the different categories, with the exception of categories 2 and 7.
Secondly, the Council has taken into consideration the budgetary guidelines for 2002 which it adopted in March of this year.
You have undoubtedly noticed that the Council has adopted decisions of this kind for the first time.
Finally, the Council has devoted special attention to the development of appropriations for payments by curbing their growth compared to 2001, taking particular account of the implementation options and the expected rate of payments in connection with outstanding amounts and national budgetary requirements.
I should also like to take the opportunity to remind you that the Council deems it desirable that the Commission once again, as it did last year, submit a letter of amendments with the proposal to include in the final budget for 2002 an estimate of the surplus available from 2001.
The draft budget submitted to you is a compromise by means of which all policy areas and priorities of the European Union can be financed without placing too heavy a burden on the Member States who try to keep their public finances under control, and where room is given, especially under the maximum amount of category 3 of the financial perspectives and category 4, for fresh priorities.
With regard to structural campaigns, the Council has allocated a high level of commitment appropriations, taking into consideration the pledges made in the framework of the conclusions of the European Council of Berlin of March 1999 and the Interinstitutional Agreement of May 1999.
The pledges in this draft budget and the programmes which have been adopted within the framework of codecision between the European Parliament and the Council are in line with the jointly agreed scheduling.
An attempt has been made, where possible, to meet the needs of the different institutions and to take account of the specific characteristics and the general objective of a moderate increase in administrative expenditure.
I will not close off this general presentation of the draft budget for 2002 without mentioning two major issues in respect of which the Council has adopted a wait-and-see approach, because a number of elements, which were not to become apparent until later on in the budgetary procedure, have been missing.
With regard to the financial implications of the absence of a fisheries agreement with Morocco, and the funding requirements to restructure the fishing fleet in question, the Council has stated that it would reconsider the situation in the framework of this year' s letter of amendments, which is required under the Interinstitutional Agreement.
I would take this opportunity to remind you of the fact that the appropriations for the international fisheries agreements, in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement, come under compulsory expenditure, irrespective of where that is: on the budget heading, in reserve or on a BA budget heading.
What I would like to do is to go into more detail, that is to say per category of expenditure, of what the Council has laid down in its draft budget for 2002.
Concerning category 1 of the financial perspectives for agricultural expenditure, the draft budget has taken into consideration the implications of the decisions taken by the European Council of Berlin in March 1999 concerning the reorganisation of the common agricultural policy.
Despite this, with regard to sub-category 1A of the financial perspectives, which covers the common agricultural policy, the Council has specified amounts which are generally EUR 200 million lower than the amounts which the Commission had proposed in its preliminary draft budget.
The Council prefers to wait for the letter of amendments which is due this autumn.
At first reading by the Council, this leads to an increase in expenditure of the common agricultural policy by 2.3% compared to 2001.
With regard to expenditure for agricultural development, the Council has adopted the proposed appropriations of the preliminary draft budget and has, consequently, incorporated the entire sub-category 1B of the financial perspectives.
The Council has included in the budget the whole of category 2 of the financial perspectives, which is dedicated to structural measures, as commitment appropriations, in line with the conclusions reached by the European Council of Berlin in March 1999.
In addition, the Council has accepted nearly all payment appropriations from the preliminary draft budget and only reduced the Community initiative programmes by EUR 375 million, in view of the expected delay in the implementation thereof.
In respect of category 3 of the financial perspectives, which is dedicated to the financing of internal policy, the Council is committed to funding the multi-annual programmes in an appropriate manner.
In the context of this category, I should like to point out that at first reading, the Council increased appropriations in its draft budget, namely on the budget headings which were intended for this purpose in the Commission' s preliminary draft budget, in order to launch Eurojust and the SIS2 system for Schengen.
As you can see, the Council has ensured that its draft budget adequately covers the priorities within the internal policy of category 3 of the financial perspectives.
Consequently, the Council has created a precautionary margin of EUR 110 million, which is more generous than the margin provided for in the Commission' s preliminary draft budget.
I should now like to turn to the financing of the EU' s external action, included in category 4 of the financial perspectives.
The Council has, to a very large extent, followed the Commission' s preliminary draft budget.
In addition, as already mentioned, the Council has maintained the appropriations for international fisheries agreements in their entirety.
Finally, I regret that during the consultation meeting of 20 July, no agreement was reached concerning the amount of appropriations that need to be earmarked for the common foreign and security policy.
Nevertheless, the Council has added a margin of EUR 100 million under the maximum of category 4 of the financial perspectives, which will enable you to confirm your priorities in this sector.
When the Council compiled its draft budget for administrative expenditure which falls within the scope of category 5 of the financial perspectives, as already stated, it followed an approach which aims to meet the needs of the institution as far as possible, taking into account their specific features.
The draft budget provides for a margin of EUR 53 million under the maximum of category 5 of the financial perspectives.
As for payment appropriations, a sharp increase by 20.9% compared to last year is provided for, following an adjustment in the form of a reduction by EUR 380 million of the amount which the Commission had included in the preliminary draft.
This increase reflects the priority which the Council, backed by the European Parliament and the Commission, affords this expenditure.
For 12 years I have made the same speech - I did not do it last year - saying that this is a budget for the Council' s first reading made by Coreper and the politicians have no input into it.
The difference between our two institutions is that we act as a Parliament should act.
When we talk about trying to take Cyprus and Malta out of category 4 and put them where they should belong, you are not interested.
And then when we talk about the compensation for not having a Morocco fisheries agreement, here is where we get into really serious discussion, because again nothing happened.
I am going to remind you about one part, because when you spoke about looking at the letter of amendment and deciding what to do, in accordance with Annex IV of the IIA only the amounts entered in the budget for agreements, which have already been concluded by the Community, can be considered compulsory expenditure.
Consequently, amounts entered in reserve - and that whacking big sum of EUR 125 million is in reserve - for agreements which have not been concluded, are considered to be non-compulsory.
We will have the final say on what happens and rest assured it will not be a trade-off as to whether we keep that in or take it out to create the same amount of money in category 2.
The statement about getting the secretaries-general to look at how the institutions can work together is all very well but there is a much greater issue.
The one thing we will not stand accused of - I am not saying that you said this but many of your colleagues in the Council seem to think this - is that we just want to increase expenditure to the maximum so that we can finance the projects that we see as our favourites, while you want to be extremely prudent.
We are sensible in the way we handle things, but we want to do it as a team.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, in the months between now and December, we have a great deal of work to do in order to reach the necessary agreement on the next budget.
As far as the European Parliament is concerned, there are prior conditions that must be met: the first is to ensure rigour and transparency in the budget and in its implementation; secondly, to only adopt a position if and provided that the necessary information is available to us.
Where agriculture is concerned, we need information on the results that have already been achieved by the last reform of the common agricultural policy; with regard to the medium-term budgetary impact of the BSE and foot-and-mouth crises and also with regard to the obstacles holding up the rapid establishment of the new food safety authority and even with regard to the prospects for the short and medium-term development of these issues.
Nevertheless, appropriations have been earmarked for the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which we all know will not be concluded, in an attempt to thereby freeze EUR 125 million in a category that is clearly experiencing difficulties.
Since this is non-mandatory expenditure, I feel sure that Parliament will also shoulder its responsibilities in this area.
In category 5, administrative expenditure, on the one hand the content and pace of the Commission reform is limited and on the other, expenditure is duplicated in the field of security and defence and there is an attempt to confront enlargement without spending additional appropriations, the opposite of what the interinstitutional agreement lays down.
Given the well-documented difficulties in meeting certain longstanding and more recent commitments, how can we accept the fact that in 2001, Member States have been given back almost EUR 10 billion, which remain unused?
We cannot accept the level of payments that has been proposed, all the more so because we want to make good past delays without undermining the current situation.
The Dutch Finance Minister, your colleague, recently claimed in public that the European Parliament is the big spender of the two arms of the budgetary authority.
That limits the scope of the European Parliament to determine its own priorities in this category.
I hope that we can at least agree on the principle, namely that operational expenditure belongs in category 3 and administrative expenditure in category 5.
Despite this, the Council only approved 89 of the 317 requested posts.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Questions to the Council (B5-0332/2001).
The execution of contracts, however, is a matter which, in the first instance, falls under the competent services of Europol.
The inquiry into the supposed theft of software and its possible use has been forwarded for further investigation to the public prosecutor in The Hague.
Among other things under consideration are a modification of the OLAF Regulation and in the Belgian parliament the idea is circulating of setting up a Committee P and a Committee I on the Belgian model for the supervision of police forces and intelligence services for Europol too.
However, on the basis of the critical state of the cod and hake stocks outlined in the Commission' s communication of 12 June and on the rebuilding of cod and hake stocks which was presented to the Council, and I quote: "The Commission adopted an emergency regulation on 14 June establishing measures for the recovery of the northern hake stock.
On 20 July the Council noted that there was no majority for amending it in the way proposed by Spain.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, only the discrimination suffered by the fleets of southern Europe, from Portugal and Spain - particularly Galicia - can explain the tangible discrimination we are now discussing.
Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity, in the presence of the Presidency-in-Office, which says it is going to study this issue again, to say that the excuse of conserving a resource such as hake, without sufficient or confirmed scientific reports, is at the origin of the discrimination against the Spanish fleet, which we are discussing here.
The Commission has told us in the Committee on Fisheries that this discrimination is for social reasons in favour of Great Britain and France, and that that is the reason for the exception.
Madam President, my question is why does the Commission, and in this case the Council, by a majority and for social reasons, not defend Spain, and specifically a region such as Galicia, which is an Objective One region and is therefore more needy, and whose fishermen traditionally fished in those waters which are now common.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 3, 4, 5 and 6 will be taken together.
Question No 5 by (H-0678/01): Subject: Violation of basic democratic freedoms and human rights in Genoa The unanimous Council decisions on taking repressive measures ahead of the Genoa Summit provided the political backing the Italian government needed for the events that took place there.
Since this summit was attended by the leaders of the four largest and dominant States in the EU and since the statements both by the Belgian Presidency and the other governments of the EU on the events at Genoa suggest that there will be a more violent and bloody response to demonstrations at future summit meetings, starting with Laeken, will the Council say whether it is aware of the very onerous political responsibility it bears for its decisions of 13 and 16 July to take repressive measures and whether it intends to revoke them, given that they are in flagrant breach of democratic freedoms and human rights, such as freedom of movement, of assembly and of expression, which were brutally violated in Genoa?
For the purpose of ensuring that these principles can also be applied in the context of important meetings, the Council and the representatives emphasised the need to establish a dialogue with non-governmental organisations, social partners and civil society, and also that we must build on and we shall build on the possibilities offered by existing legal instruments and bodies set up within the European Union.
Like Mr Vitorino before me, let me lay particular emphasis on the provisions of the Convention applying the Schengen Agreement and the joint action of 26 May 1997 on cooperation on law and order and security.
The idea is that the task force of European Union chiefs of police should make a significant contribution to the practical implementation of cooperation between the law enforcement authorities of the Member States.
Incidentally, this task force has absolutely nothing to do with what the author of one question described as a joint police unit in the context of an EU-led crisis-management action.
In the same way, by letter of 11 July 2001, the Italian government informed us, under the procedures in force, of the measures it had taken under the second sentence of Article 2(2) of the Convention applying the Schengen Agreement.
At the Council meeting of 16 July 2001, the ministers declared themselves in favour of closer international cooperation to safeguard the exercise of freedom of expression on the one hand and, on the other, to ensure that public demonstrations of this kind can and do take place in a peaceful manner.
Obviously that does not mean that a Member State cannot make known its position in regard to another Member State, which is, in effect, what has happened.
But that does not fall within the Council' s remit.
In regard to your second question, I will have to check this and obtain information before I can reply.
Secondly, when I described the presidency' s position on the G8 meeting this afternoon and discussed means of ensuring that both these meetings and the demonstrations outside proceeded peacefully, I stated and reiterated the Belgian government' s concern and firm resolve to reconcile the right to demonstrate with the maintenance of public order, as also to prevent the kind of violence we saw both in Gothenburg and in Italy.
Mr President, I have listened to your comments with interest, but I would like to refer back to my question, Question No 6: What conclusions should now be drawn for European Council meetings in future, not only as regards policing but also in organisational and policy terms?
Secondly, Prime Minister Verhofstadt has sent a letter to his colleagues in the 14 other governments asking them to reduce the size of the delegations that would be sent to or would participate in the Laeken Council.
We have a degree of understanding for the panic which has gripped the representatives, for want of a better expression, of big business, including the current presidency, in the face of increasing reaction on the part of the workers in our countries to anti-grass roots policies and the new imperialist order.
The statement made by the Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the European Parliament Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs gives us cause for concern, Madam President-in-Office.
Let me also tell you that during the championship held last summer - Euro 2000 - we proved that we had learned the lessons of the tragedy to which I have just referred and we showed that we were certainly fully capable of organising events of the kind, which involve huge crowd movements.
There is no question of panic; it is a question of very careful preparation.
On 29 May 2001, the Council decided upon a common approach with regard to the draft decision to establish a Community mechanism to facilitate increased cooperation in aid intervention in the context of civil defence, subject to the treatment of the recommendation of the European Parliament of 14 June 2001 and provided that the Parliament withdraws a number of its reservations.
Since then the Council agencies have reached complete agreement on the draft, subject to the legal and linguistic amendment of the text and, as I have already said, the withdrawal of parliamentary reservations.
The implementation of this mechanism will be entrusted to the Commission, supported by a committee.
As the author is not present, Question No 8 lapses.
Question No 9 by (H-0605/01): Subject: Handling business failure As part of the Commission' s programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship a seminar was organised by the Commission on 'Daring to risk going bust' and handling business failure.
In general the Council has taken a positive position with regard to the simplification of the regulatory framework for industry.
The seminar to which the honourable Member refers was organised jointly by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the European Commission on 10 and 11 May 2001.
The specific point that I raised in my question, which I thought would be self-evident, was that because of sudden downturns in the economy in America and other parts of the world, there is increasing pressure being put on small and medium-sized enterprises in a very strict and rigorously competitive market.
Therefore, I was somewhat heartened by the daring-to-risk-going-bust attitude of the conference because that would give us experience to know the main reasons why small and medium-size enterprises fail, whilst at the same time recognising that they are the biggest engine of growth within the overall European Union economy, creating something like 82% of employment and representing 74% of all manufacturing.
I expect that eventually you or some of your colleagues might invite the Commission to take a number of measures.
I know that the Council attaches great importance to small and medium-sized enterprises and recognises that these constitute the backbone of our individual economies and of our European economy in general.
However, Ireland does receive preferential treatment as regards financial support from the Community for carrying out control, inspection and monitoring measures.
In addition, I am pleased that she has referred to discards.
I would ask the President-in-Office whether she would take into consideration the initiative taken by both Ireland and the UK in relation to technical conservation measures and see that some effort is made by all countries to try to ensure that the smaller fish are not taken on board.
We are now 20 years on and if we continue with the same principle as we had in 1983 then small countries like Ireland will be worse off.
The Council, the Council of Ministers, the presidency have to take into consideration that in Ireland the coastal regions have no alternative source of employment.
As the author is not present, Question No 11 lapses.
Question No 12 by (H-0611/01) Subject: Using hydrogen energy in urban/rural transport Earlier this year the Commission announced its support for the launching of a demonstration project involving the use of hydrogen energy in buses in Iceland, a non EU Member State but a country which is paving the way for sustainable urban transport.
I thank the President-in-Office for her positive response and for outlining the present position with regard to my question.
Alternative fuels have been a live agenda item in this Parliament for a number of years but we do not seem to be any closer to a practical outcome.
The financing of the Union, both the indirect financing system we all know, and the possibility of direct financing, is one of the options we are examining with regard to the future of the Union.
But I would remind you what this Question Time is for.
But does the Council realise that it has been the rashness and incompetence of the Minister that has led to the loss of more than ESP 14 000 million, with disastrous economic consequences?
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo is well aware that the presidency of the Council has to remain above the Member States and also above any political or ideological disputes.
As you rightly said, Madam President, the problem has arisen as a result of the method of extracting olive residue oil, and therefore traces of benzopyrene were found in the olive residue oil and, given the lack, as you also said, of a European regulation setting the limits, the Spanish Ministry of Health proceeded, applying the precautionary principle, to withdraw this oil from circulation.
To avoid any misunderstanding, let me begin by pointing out that the spokesman for Mr Byrne, the Commissioner responsible for health, stated that there was no question of Member States taking measures against virgin olive oil from Spain, because the problem does not even arise there; that oil is not contaminated by benzopyrene because it is manufactured by an entirely different process.
Question No 15 by (H-0623/01): Subject: Information of Greek citizens about the euro A mere few months before the official introduction of the euro, a survey carried out by Eurobarometer in Greece in late March and early April 2001 revealed that 47.8% of Greeks felt that they knew 'very little or little' about the euro, while 25.5% said that they knew nothing about the subject.
The lowest figures were among people aged over 55, 36% of whom know nothing about the new currency, and only 16% saying they were adequately informed.
At the meeting held on 4 June, the ministers, the Presidents of the European Central Bank and the Commissioner responsible considered the preparations being made for the introduction of euro notes and coins on 1 January 2002.
Against this background, the ministers reiterated their desire to ensure that the conversion of all prices, tariffs and charges coming under their governments' authority would not have any effect on prices or would have only a minimum impact on consumers.
The ministers called on retailers to implement their commitment to respect the good practice that they had included in the joint declaration of European consumer and business associations adopted on 2 April 2001, and to do everything in their power to guarantee the overall stability of their prices when converting to the euro and to give a clear signal of this commitment to their customers.
The ministers also noted that several Member States had stepped up their price monitoring and that the relevant agencies had been vigilant about price conversion issues.
Mr President, I asked if the Council intended to introduce this ready reckoner system.
All that I know is that those ministers that are members of Ecofin, and especially those that belong to the euro group, decided to launch a very intensive campaign which is to be stepped up with effect from now, because they decided that if they had started during the summer there was a risk of the impact being lost during that period so that it would have been necessary to start all over again.
I also believe that it will be a two-level campaign, that is an EU-level campaign that will be backed up by campaigns run by the Member States and the various national governments.
The decisions have been taken, confirmed and confirmed again, and they will be implemented as agreed and in the form which this House has had an opportunity to consider and to give its opinion on.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, usually, when I get back to Bergamo from Brussels, I arrive late in the evening and I go and have a pizza.
I presume that is the case, and it should be the case, in all the countries changing over to the euro on 1 January 2001.
Question No 16 by (H-0624/01): Subject: Legislation on 'sects' and its impact on respect for religious freedom in Europe One of the Member States, France, has a much criticised law on religion in which the term 'sect' , as applied to smaller churches and religious groups, plays a key role.
Question No 17 by (H-0626/01): Subject: Torture of people on grounds of sexual orientation Instances of torture and abusive treatment of people who develop relations with those of the same sex have increased sharply and matters are made worse by the widespread tolerance of such violations and the reluctance of the victims to have their identities revealed.
Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Union says that within the limits of the powers conferred by it upon the Community, the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament, may take appropriate action to combat any discrimination, particularly discrimination based on sex or sexual orientation.
With a view to ensuring more vigorous and concerted action at national, regional and international level, in April of this year the European Union adopted guidelines for its policy towards third countries on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading punishments or treatment, thus confirming the central role of this issue in its human rights policy.
We all know that the European Union is very sensitive about respect for human rights and that this sensitivity is expressed in the Treaties and in the European Convention on Human Rights.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 18 and 19 will be taken together.
Question No 18 by (H-0628/01): Subject: Access by the public to Council documents On 30 May this year the Council, having enacted the legislation to open its documents to the public, set itself a deadline of six months, until 3 December 2001, to complete its preparatory measures.
If not, would it like any help from the Parliament, which has been open to the public for so many years already?
Question No 19 by (H-0630/01): Subject: Increased openness The legislative act governing public access to EU documents was adopted in May 2001.
Until that date, requests from citizens for Council documents will be dealt with as previously on the basis of Decision 93/731/EC regarding public access to Council documents.
Each of the three institutions involved is at present taking measures to ensure that the new Regulation is actually applied from 3 December next.
According to Article 15 of the Regulation, they are required to set up an interinstitutional committee, which will investigate the best practice, deal with any disputes and discuss future developments relating to public access to documents.
The necessary measures will be taken to be able to meet the deadline of 3 December.
As regards the various types of documents that may be consulted by the public, I can inform the honourable Member that at present, on the basis of Decision 93/731/EC of 20 December 1993 relating to public access to Council documents, all Council documents can be requested by the public.
However, Article 1, paragraph 1 of Decision 93/731/EC, amended by Council Decision 2000/527/EC of 14 August last year, stipulated that if a request for access relates to a document marked highly secret, secret or confidential in the sense of the decision of the Secretary-General of the Council of 27 July 2000, that in addition refers to the security and defence affairs of the Union or of one or more of its Member States or to military or non-military crisis management, the applicant shall be informed that the document concerned does not fall within the scope of Decision 93/731/EC.
I would draw your attention to the fact that this provision was not included in the previously mentioned Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 that comes into effect on 3 December next.
However, Article 9 of the Regulation stipulates that requests for access to the sensitive documents described in it will be dealt with separately.
Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 is based on the same general principle as the Decision of 1993, namely that every document request is definitely looked at separately.
Access can only be possibly denied in the light of the exceptional regulation provided for in Article 4.
In addition, the Council decided in its Decision of 9 April this year on the classification of certain categories of Council documents, to place a whole series of documents, especially documents that fall under legislative activities, directly in the public domain via the Internet.
In this, the Council anticipated the coming into force of the Regulation as regards Article 12, paragraph 3.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office on getting through so many answers in this Question Time.
Secondly, I note your statement that this procedure will start on time on 3 December.
Everyone in Parliament and the public is delighted to hear that and thank you for your very full reply.
Mr President, I really must protest at the way in which you are directing this debate.
This presidency has violated neither the letter nor the spirit of Question Time, the aim of which is to ask specific questions and receive the most specific possible replies.
Against this background, the Council considers it vital that these elections should take place in a proper manner in accordance with European norms and with the participation of the entire population, in particular the Serbian minority in Kosovo.
Nevertheless, the Council of the European Union is not playing any part in the direct preparations for these elections.
This organisational task has in fact been given to the OSCE, to the Council of Europe and to the third pillar of the United Nations Mission in Kosovo, better known by the abbreviation UNMIK.
However, all the Member States are making an important contribution to the budget established for this purpose via the OSCE and the Council of Europe and they are also involved in preparing for observers to be sent, once again under the aegis of the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
So I should like, first, to say that I clearly asked a question and, secondly, to ask you, as President, if supplementary questions should be repeated by the person who asked the initial question or if they should supplement the first question in different words but - naturally - on the same subject?
What has happened is that we did not realise it was a question from the interpretation, but you have asked it, we have all understood very well and we thank you for your cooperation and assessment.
Question No 21 by (H-0637/01): Subject: Adoption of the regulation on designs and models When is the regulation on designs and models scheduled to be adopted?
There is unanimous agreement in the Council on virtually all aspects of the draft Regulation.
And now, as regards this proposed regulation on design, the procedure rules, the procedure languages and the competence of the office for harmonisation of the internal markets are issues which have already been resolved.
It is not always necessary to understand or share the argument underpinning the reservations that a Member State may have on a particular point to realise that these reservations have nevertheless been expressed, that they have been maintained and that it is difficult to withdraw them.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 22 to 36 will be replied to in writing.
The period of three months available to Parliament to give its opinion will begin from tomorrow 6 September 2001.
Amendments Nos 53, 60 and 62 call for an immediate introduction of the opt-in system which would then be compulsory for all Member States.
It is quite impossible to predict how the commercial sector will respond to the new opportunities afforded by direct advertising by e-mail.
Let us remain faithful to our original approach, without drawing any hasty conclusions, and wait for the outcomes of this House' s wise decision - which was adopted with an overwhelming majority - on the e-Commerce Directive: opt-out as a minimum standard, and the option of opt-in for Member States, with monitoring of the two approaches.
This balance, which is guaranteed in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, must always guide the actions of the European Union, and for this reason, too, the broad and accurate Cederschiöld report deserves our full agreement.
The Commission' s draft directive also deserves great appreciation; it aims to update personal data protection in the electronic communications sector and not to leave things as they are, since harmonisation is necessary.
On the one hand, the Cappato report proposes useful additions to the directive which reinforce the limits placed on the invasion of privacy by public authorities, especially as regards forms of generalised electronic surveillance, which was discussed this morning.
The Commission proposes that European citizens' e-mail addresses and mobile telephone data could be included in public lists and given out on-line only if the interested parties had given their prior consent.
The Cappato report proposes that the opt-out system could also be adopted.
If you consider the speed at which a list of e-mail addresses could be circulated on-line and come to the attention of an unlimited number of people interested in sending unsolicited messages, and if you consider the cost in time and money of eliminating these unwelcome messages and sending requests to the various senders to stop forwarding them, you will have an idea of the burden on citizens of adopting the opt-out system.
The costs may total EUR 10 billion annually for receivers, not to mention the cost in time.
As a result consumers will never gain the necessary trust in e-commerce.
After all, our telecom companies work in a pan-European way and therefore need uniform rules so that legal uncertainty is ruled out.
Mr President, the right of freedom of expression entitles companies to display their wares on the Internet.
Therefore the onus is on us to ensure that we can put in place proper controls and measures, not with regard to access, but ensuring that parents can make certain their children will not be endangered by these new technologies and also that there is cooperation amongst the law enforcement agencies across the Member States.
I welcome the fact that in the reports there is a role for Europol and Eurojust as well as between the Member States.
Finally, it is a forward looking plan when we look at cooperation with the United States of America and other countries throughout the world, to ensure that this new technology can be used for the benefit of all of mankind and not for those who want to avoid our legal structures.
It had been agreed that use would be made of a strengthened Hughes procedure, but little has come of that.
The second question concerns the nature and storage of traffic data.
The fourth, reason, Mr President, why I am in favour is that the majority of states - they no longer number four but actually seven - have chosen the "opt-in" system.
I ask the presidency to clarify this point for tomorrow' s debate, because I do not want there to be this ambiguity.
Mr Cappato, the presidency takes note of what you have just said.
A minority of the ELDR Group believes that we should wait and see how these systems work and that we should apply the principle of subsidiarity.
We support Amendment No 61 concerning the supervision clause.
I believe that responsible and aware behaviour on the part of consumers is the most important thing of all.
Mr President, I would like to focus my remarks this evening on Mrs Cederschiöld' s report.
One of the problems with the report is that it contains a huge amount of material and potential actions and priorities will therefore have to be set.
So this evening I should just like to address what I believe is a crucial problem that needs to be looked at in the short term: the whole question of how we encourage the development of electronic commerce to use these tools, to address the sort of business issues that some colleagues are already trying to frustrate, in my view, by moving prematurely to the sort of rigid opt-in arrangement that they are talking about.
The e-commerce market is at a very early stage and is still underdeveloped.
A very important report produced by the British business association, the CBI, last week clearly showed that both businesses and consumers are discouraged from moving into the electronic commerce market place because of concerns about security.
It is, therefore, becoming crucial to ensure that there is rigorous protection against potential abuses or even criminal acts.
We are also discussing the report by Mr Cappato, whom I should like to congratulate on his work on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sector.
This is a report that warranted a lengthy debate and which seeks to find a balance between the protection of private life, the legal aspects and the interests of industry.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about e-mails, spamming and a wide range of other subjects.
I know people who say: I want to receive as much information as possible in a wide range of areas.
There are others who say: I only want to receive the information which I have requested myself.
I am pleased that Parliament is now debating this important directive which forms an essential element of the electronic communications regulatory reform package.
This will enable us to try and minimise the procedural delay which the data protection directive has incurred, as compared with the rest of the package.
However, I am convinced that the Commission proposal for opt-in is best, for essentially two reasons.
It is particularly important in an economic sector which is so profoundly without frontiers as electronic commerce over the Internet is.
These two systems cannot exist because the opt-out regime will override any opt-in systems.
The opt-out system, especially, will override the opt-in system.
Mrs Thors raised two questions.
Firstly the situation in the United States.
I had the privilege to participate in many discussions with the Members of the Senate and the US Congress in this field.
Today, there are about 60 proposals in Congress on that issue.
In general, it is agreed that the present opt-out system has a lot of problems, but the solutions vary.
As far as the applicability of an opt-in regime outside Europe is concerned, the GATT agreement allows its members to take measures to enforce their data protection legislation within their territory.
Mr Coelho asked whether it is difficult to control.
The opt-in regime is one uniform legal solution.
For these reasons the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 19, 41 and 42.
However, knowing how difficult this issue is, and how divided opinions have been in this House, we should also look for compromise solutions and I want to be open and constructive on this issue.
We therefore welcome the constructive compromise amendments 53 and 62 which have been presented.
The Commission is willing to look for solutions along the lines of these amendments, but subject to some redrafting and streamlining within the existing legal framework.
On this one, I have the impression that the Commission and the European Parliament are on the same line.
In addition, there is a clause referring to the reasons for which Member States may adopt specific legal measures in derogation of this principle in exceptional cases.
These reasons include, inter alia, national security, defence, and the investigation and prosecution of crimes.
Since the rights protected in this existing and proposed directive are based on Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights - under the protection of privacy of home, family life and correspondence - any exception must remain within the rules established by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
As we discussed this morning during the Echelon debate, it is important that the rules for both citizens and for the State are very clear and precise regarding the rights and obligations in this sensitive area.
Therefore, the Commission can support Amendment No 4 which strengthens the recital text on this point.
However, the Commission is not in favour of copying the same text into Article 15, as proposed by Amendment 50, as it may overstep the legal basis of the directive.
In summary, out of the 62 amendments submitted to plenary, 35 can be fully supported by the Commission.
These are Amendments Nos 1 to 4, 7 to 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 21 to 29, 31 to 35, 37, 39, 45, 49, 51, 52, 56 and 57.
Another seven amendments which can be supported in part or in principle subject to certain drafting changes are 5, 46 to 48, 53, 60 and 62.
The report identifies key issues for further consideration.
Many of the recommendations in the report are in line with the current view of the Commission on policy development to combat cybercrime and improve security.
There is one recommendation, however, of which I have to say that it is not acceptable to the Commission, that is Recommendation No 5 concerning the transfer of responsibilities for data protection within the Commission and to concentrating responsibility for certain other tasks in single units.
Over 400 people came to Brussels to attend this event, which shows the strong interest of the public in participating in this discussion.
Next the Commission will shortly issue a proposal for a framework decision on combating serious attacks against information systems.
In June, the Commission issued a communication on network and information security, which I presented this morning in this House in detail.
The first legislative initiative announced in the communication has already been issued: a proposal for a framework decision that includes measures to combat child pornography.
I fully share the strong opinions expressed on this issue in this House tonight.
The communication has announced a forum in which the relevant parties will have the opportunity to discuss various issues to find an appropriate balance between network security, law enforcement powers, privacy protection and economic priority.
The report of the European Parliament is an important milestone in this policy debate.
It is of vital importance for my group to know why it is possible in the electronic commerce directive.
That was the reason they were dealt with in a different context in the data protection directive and in this directive.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Fair and open competition is the bedrock on which the single European market is built and on which the growth of European economies depends.
These actions not only undermine the interests of commercial competitors, they rip off consumers and undermine the dynamic competitive economy on which our future economic interests rely.
The Commission' s White Paper on competition policy reform highlighted the difficulties.
The Commission wants radical change, devolving the application of EU competition law to national authorities in order to refocus its efforts in rooting out cartels and the abuse of market power.
But we strongly spelt out our concern on important issues like the need for legal certainty.
Nevertheless I believe that Commissioner Monti has genuinely taken account of our concerns and the Commission' s proposal reflects this.
Above all I want to draw attention to Article 3 of the regulation, which unambiguously states that in cases affecting trade between Member States it is European competition law that takes precedence.
For us, the preservation of Article 3 is an essential part of this reform.
We consider that Article 3 is such a central element of the reform that we will wish to be consulted again if the Council obliges the Commission to make any significant change to this article.
We have proposed a range of amendments to improve legal certainty for business, including the widening of Article 10 - changes which have received widespread business support.
We are sure that in an increasingly global economy such radical reform will be necessary.
But we reiterate our objective of Parliament moving towards full codecision in respect of these matters.
In an increasingly global world we recognise that effective competition is the essential motor for the growth of European economies and the welfare of the people we have been sent here to represent depends on fair and open competition in order to drive that growth forward.
Amendment No 10 safeguards this traditional relationship between legal counsel and client and extends it to in-house lawyers as well.
We all know that the competition rules go back to 1957, that Regulation 17 dates back to 1962, and that virtually all the framework conditions have changed since then.
Because to participate, although in a very modest way, in the process of repealing Regulation 17 of 1962, against which I have fought a long-standing battle and on which I have written repeatedly in a very critical manner, is, I must confess, hugely gratifying.
But the problem with Regulation 17 was not its creation or the rules it established at the time of its creation.
The problem has been its maintenance for almost forty years, during which conditions had changed radically.
In the report produced on the White Paper, this Parliament had the opportunity to express its favourable opinion, although with some fine-tuning in certain cases.
I believe that the new approaches in the field of Community competition law not only constitute an enormous effort to modernise that Community law but also an effort in the right direction.
I am referring specifically to the provision of Article 7 on the possibility of adopting structural measures as a result of a decision on a case of prohibited conduct.
This consists, no more and no less, of adopting measures such as the splitting up of companies, particularly of those which have abused their dominant position.
Perhaps it is the case that in other respects the Commission' s proposal is not fully in line with what was approved at the time by the European Parliament.
In this regard, the Commission' s proposal has been more timid than in other respects, but, in any event, if the amendments contained in the Evans report are adopted, or those still maintained by this parliamentary Group, this shortcoming may be corrected.
There are other points on which perhaps our satisfaction is not complete.
It is true that there is no single standard in the field of the guarantees of process or rights to defence.
But those of us who come from a country where the same principles are applied to administrative penalty procedures, with a constitutional guarantee, as to the criminal procedure, and the same rights are granted to physical persons as to legal persons, would have liked this standard, this level of guarantees, to have been raised in accordance with the amendments approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which have not been incorporated into the text.
The continuation of sound competition policy is the main aim of the review being undertaken by legislation in the area of competition.
I am therefore satisfied with Article 3 of the Commission' s proposal, which clearly states that it is the Community' s and not the Member States' competition law that is applied when it comes to transnational issues of competition.
I should therefore also like to strike a blow for the Commission' s competition authority being given more resources so that we do not run the risk of competition policy being watered down and taken over by the Member States.
The Council' s hesitation concerning Article 3 makes it abundantly clear how crucial it is for Parliament to be given the right of codecision making on competition policy.
Mr President, like those fellow Members who have spoken before me, I approve the principle of competition policy reform proposed by the Commission.
Article 3 is clearly vital.
It establishes the principle that Community law overrides national law in cases where practices are likely to affect trade between Member States.
For example, in the case of services of general interest or other services that are essential for the Member States and the regions, I am convinced that there is a need for derogating provisions.
At the very least, the Commission should, as proposed by the Economic and Social Committee, present an interpretative communication on this subject.
Article 10 is another important article.
It rightly provides that the Commission can make observations to the Member States for reasons of Community public interest.
Jonathan Evans highlights the example of major investments.
The rapporteur is right to stress that it is contradictory to replace prior notification by a register.
He is right to call for convergence in national law.
So take a look at the Langen report and other reports.
Of course, only experience will tell us if we are heading into an incomprehensible mosaic or a situation that guarantees legal certainty and, I might say, unity of law within the single European market.
I believe, however, that the attempt should be sustained, just as I believe there will be a very warm welcome for the abolition of mandatory notification and authorisation and the introduction of the exception rule, which seems to me a rather more liberal principle, especially in a sector - that of regulating authorities and competition - which is always running the risk of being a different, new instrument for state interference in market dynamics.
This is certainly not the case of the Commission, but a number of authorities - I am thinking of certain central banks, for instance, which in fact preserve anti-trust powers over the credit market - run this risk in my opinion, and sometimes go even further.
Mr President, yesterday I was in this House addressing the issue of the European Aviation Safety Agency when I noted that the means by which it was being achieved was through the gradual integration of the national systems.
The Commission wants the competition authorities to form a network at the centre of which is the Commission.
It is the opposite, absorbing the civil servants of many countries into one vast centralised nexus.
Although they may nominally be the courts of the Member States and their running costs are paid for by the Member States, they are - as the draftsman so clearly reminded us - courts of Community law underlying the whole Community judicial system.
All this is being done in the name of efficiency.
Mr President, there is a general agreement that we clearly need some reform in some competition rules, and especially in their practical implementation.
Regulation 1017 has been applied with only little modification since the 1960s.
It is therefore understandable that the continued application of this regulation in its current form is no longer consistent with effective supervision of competition.
In my view, in a period of 30 years of implementation, EC competition law has reached a level where decentralising is not only possible, but almost necessary.
Ending the current system of prior notification should benefit business and make more resources available to the Commission to concentrate on more serious infringements.
However, the shift to the new regime will not be an easy task.
It is of the utmost importance to ensure that competition issues within the EU are treated similarly in all Member States.
Personally I, and many of my colleagues from smaller Member States, are worried about the definitions of dominant position in the market.
Companies from Member States - especially from the smaller Member States - should have equal possibilities to grow in the single market and to achieve a strategic position to compete with the global rivals.
The Commission decision to say no to the Volvo/Scania merger was an example of the situation where the relevant market definition was maybe too narrow.
The Commission should not declare that the market is national or regional if there is clear evidence that is not the case.
I agree that that is necessary, but company managements and boards need their experts to be able to give them proper, independent advice without those experts having to fear that, if something subsequently goes wrong because either board or management acts against their advice, this will entail an increased penalty.
Next I would like to thank the European Parliament as a whole and all those who have spoken this evening for the support and encouragement Parliament has given the Commission during the debates on the White Paper and ever since.
I must say our proposal for a regulation has greatly benefited from the comments, criticism and encouragement emanating from the committees and from this House.
The central purpose of the reform is to create a more effective system of implementation, to the benefit of consumers, businesses and the European economy in general.
Abolishing the current system of notification and authorisation and the exclusive power of the Commission under Article 81(3) means the Commission and the national competition authorities will be able to concentrate their efforts on combating the worst infringements.
The establishment of a network of authorities for the protection of competition will allow us to coordinate our efforts and use our respective resources to best effect.
The essential premise for the success of such cooperation is for all the competition authorities to apply the Community rules more widely, otherwise the planned network would just be an empty framework.
This is essential if we want to create uniform competitive conditions for common market businesses and prevent renationalisation of Community competition policy.
I keenly appreciate, therefore, the fact that Mr Evans fully and firmly supports the Commission' s proposal contained in Article 3, aimed at making Community competition law the only set of rules to be applied in cases where trade between Member States might be prejudiced.
This proposal has very wide implications and is meeting with resistance on the part of various Member States within the Council' s working group.
However, I remain convinced of the solid logical foundation of the proposal and I can assure you that the Commission is determined to establish uniform conditions for agreements that might prejudice trade between Member States.
Mr President, I would now like to touch on some of the specific issues that have emerged, starting with professional secrecy.
Effective implementation of the rules on competition is closely linked to the capacity of the Commission to obtain evidence on infringements.
Any change likely to reduce the effectiveness of our inspections would therefore have grave consequences on the possibility of implementing the rules on competition and on their effectiveness.
I want to avoid any misunderstanding on one point, however: the Commission is perfectly aware of the positive role that in-house lawyers can play by counselling companies about observing the rules on competition.
That role will assume greater importance under the new system, where companies will have to carry out more systematic self-assessment of their agreements in particular to establish compliance with the exemption conditions laid down by Article 81(3).
However, the question of duty of secrecy for in-house lawyers essentially arises in the context of inspections attempting to establish the existence of serious restrictions which fail to comply with the provisions of Article 81(3).
In this context, the reform proposed by the Commission does not change the current situation at all.
Furthermore, internal communications between a company lawyer and his employer are so numerous and indistinguishable from purely company advice - which differs from legal advice - that duty of secrecy for in-house lawyers could create conditions ripe for concealing documentary evidence.
The Evans report rightly stresses the importance of legal certainty for companies.
The rules and their scope must be sufficiently predictable.
A wider application of Community competition rules by the relevant authorities in the context of a network of close cooperation will, in itself, represent a great step forward in ensuring predictability as compared with the present situation, in which sixteen competition authorities apply different rules.
The amendment proposed to Article 10 raises concerns in this respect.
By way of supplement and clarification, it states that the Commission can decide that there is no violation of Articles 81 and 82, in particular whenever the agreements involve financial risk or considerable investment of capital.
The Commission has already undertaken to introduce such a system, whereby it can issue reasoned written opinions in cases where there are gaps in the existing rules and decision-making procedures.
The level of investment will also be one of the relevant criteria in deciding whether to issue an opinion or not.
My impression is that the proposed system for formulating opinions would be favourably received by the business world.
On harmonisation of the procedures and sanctions, the Commission' s proposal is based on the traditional approach, which leaves the Member States able to determine the procedures and sanctions for implementing Community law.
Our approach is to introduce a substantial framework first, leaving the possible introduction of common procedures and sanctions to a later stage.
The last point I want to mention, Mr President, relates to the national courts.
I am persuaded that they will be fully capable of applying Community competition rules in their entirety, because they already play a fundamental role in implementing Community law.
Nor should we forget that, to guarantee consistent implementation of the rules, the proposal provides, in particular, for the Commission, together with the national competition authorities, to be entitled to comment as amicus curiae on proceedings pending before the courts.
The proposed powers will allow the Commission to protect the public interest in the effective and consistent implementation of the rules, by drawing the attention of the courts to important points relating to their interpretation and implementation.
The implementation of the competition rules can indeed be a complex matter.
We are also looking at the possibility of cooperating with the national authorities in this matter and providing finance from existing training programmes.
I conclude, Mr President, by expressing sincere and heartfelt thanks to the European Parliament for travelling a common road with us through this very complicated terrain, which is, however, as various speakers this evening have sought to highlight, of such vital interest to the economy and indeed to our individual citizens whom you represent.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Article 119 of the Treaty provides that where a Member State is in difficulties or is seriously threatened with difficulties as regards its balance of payments, the Council shall grant 'mutual assistance' so that the functioning of the common market is not jeopardised.
That mechanism can be activated by the Council following an initiative from the Member State which is in difficulty or following an initiative from the Commission.
To be on the safe side, it was decided to reduce the ceiling from EUR 16 billion to EUR 12 billion - Amendment No 2, Recital 8; the Council shall adopt the decisions after consulting the European Parliament - Amendment No 3, Article 9; and shall examine whether the facility is adequate every two years, not three - Amendment No 4, Article 11.
The Community budget is protected as regards loans granted to third countries by the Guarantee Fund Mechanism.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Party of European Socialists supports the current Commission proposal because it seeks to simplify and modernise the sole mechanism of financial support for the balances of payments of the European Union' s Member States which are not part of the eurozone.
The fact that only three countries, Great Britain, Sweden and Denmark, should benefit from this mechanism, in addition to the fact that this instrument has only been used twice since its entry into force in June 1988, justify a reduction in the overall sums earmarked for loans from EUR 16 to 12 billion.
Other proposals also warrant our support, such as the possibility of the Commission undertaking swap operations, the recognition of the role of the Economic and Financial Committee and the need to make the support mechanism compatible with the possible opening, in the very short term, of a line of credit by the European Central Bank.
Firstly, with the proposal to apply this mechanism to the countries included in enlargement, will it really not be possible to have imbalances appearing in the balances of payments of future Member States, given the substantial structural reforms that must be implemented in order to make accession possible?
Mr President, many thanks to Mr Andria for his report on the amendment of the Regulation on the facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments.
The first fundamental doubt is: can this facility be extended to the candidate countries?
This system applies to Member States.
We are still applying the macrofinancial aid system which can be applied to the candidate countries, just as it is applied to any third country.
The second point that you have raised is the problem of the degree to which the new model implemented may negatively affect the Community budget.
You well know that we have a different model of guarantees, whether we refer to macrofinancial aid to third countries, or whether we do so in relation to long-term aid within the Community framework.
It is true that we grant macrofinancial aid to certain third countries with difficulties.
It is also true that we do so in cooperation with other international financial institutions and by applying programmes that have been agreed by them.
That is why the guarantee fund was implemented, allowing us to confront these difficulties in the event of non-payments.
An equivalent guarantee fund must be implemented for long-term aid to Member States of the Union.
In our opinion, that situation is not reasonable either now or in the future.
In my opinion, no.
Compliance with the obligations resulting from enlargement is going to mean, amongst other things, cooperation in the monitoring systems which allow us not only to help them to modify and improve their financial systems, but also to have all the necessary guarantees so that their situation may be similar to that of the current Member States.
We therefore do not believe that it is necessary to modify the system in this regard.
We believe that when the system is applied to them, the candidate countries will already be members of the European Union and therefore no special guarantee system will be necessary.
The third problem you have raised is: who should grant this type of aid, the Bank or the Commission?
The mechanism which has currently been implemented is based on a fundamental idea: urgency.
Of course, the possibility of reviewing the regulation in the future, in two or three years, is not a great problem for us and clearly, in the event of a review of the Regulation, the European Parliament must continue to play the role it has played until now.
I would like to thank all of you for your participation on this issue, which is sometimes rather dry, but which I believe is also fundamental to everyone.
We must study the mechanisms which, as you have said, will provide us with a safety valve in the event that difficulties may arise in any Member State in the future, as a result of enlargement, difficulties which will have to be resolved efficiently, making full use of the procedures laid down in our Treaty.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Starting with pentaBDE and its harmful effect on our environment and on our health, the picture is very clear indeed.
A preliminary study carried out in 1998 by the Swedish authorities indicates a high concentration of this substance in breast milk.
There is therefore a risk to the environment and to human health.
It was therefore totally logical for the Commission to propose in January of this year a total ban on the marketing and use of pentaBDE.
A second substance, octabromodiphenyl ether, is also directly affected by the directive in view of the percentage of pentaBDE residues that it contains when it is sold.
In this case, the Commission preferred to accept the final conclusions of the risk assessment study still being carried out for this substance.
Yet I regard it as being difficult, nay, impossible, and I will come back to this point in a few moments, to exclude decaBDE, which is why in Amendment No 4 in my report I call for a method for the evaluation of risks by family of chemical products, and no longer on an individual substance by substance basis.
While waiting for precise information to emerge from the risk assessment in relation to decaBDE which is also currently in progress, Amendment No 16, which I have tabled in conjunction with the PPE Group and the Socialist Group, essentially proposes a ban on decaBDE with effect from 1 January 2006, unless the risk assessment in some way exonerates this substance and concludes that decaBDE does not pose any problems.
While I am on the subject of amendments, I would like to mention that I oppose Amendment No 9, which aims to change the title of the proposal so as to extend the immediate ban to the marketing of decaBDE.
I do not really have any fundamental philosophical objection to Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 14, but I prefer the Commission' s original text.
With regard to the other amendment tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I believe that my report already takes account of the criticisms contained in Amendment No 11 regarding the extremely cumbersome nature of the risk assessment and control procedures for existing substances.
To conclude, the Council Working Party on Dangerous Substances, which will be meeting in a week' s time, will determine the broad guidelines to be adopted by the Internal Market Council on 27 September.
So for this reason, in the interests of public health and the environment, the marketing and use of pentaBDE and all articles containing pentaBDE must be prohibited.
Besides penta, two other bromide-based flame retardants are available on the market, namely decaBDE and octaBDE.
In dealing with the directive on the limitation of the use of certain hazardous substances in electric and electronic equipment, this House has already come out in favour of a gradual ban on all PDBEs in specific uses by January 2006.
The first known results of the risk assessments for octaBDE, which are at present being carried out in the United Kingdom as regards the impact of the environment and in France as regards the consequences for public health, show that with this substance there are clear risks for human health and the environment.
Mr President, in the interests of health, the protection of European citizens, the protection of the environment and the maintenance of the internal market, on the basis of results so far known of the risk assessments of bromide-based flame retardants and on the basis of the principle of prevention, there should be a ban on penta- and octaBDE and also on decaBDE if the risk assessment expected before the end of the year shows that decaBDE gives cause for concern.
Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the report which has been a difficult one in terms of reaching a balance between the interests of what is clearly the very important - and very immediate - issue of fire safety and the more difficult, but more long-term problem of future harm to public health and the environment.
The substances which are the subject of this report have clear and demonstrated beneficial properties as flame retardants in materials and products such as foam-filled furniture.
Action on these substances in the opinion of many Members of this Parliament has been long delayed due to the slow progress of the risk assessments undertaken under the existing substance regulations of 1993.
The final results and publications of the risk assessments of certain of these substances are still awaited.
I hope the Commission notes that.
One cannot ignore however their very real and positive benefits in terms of reducing substantially the annual human death toll due to accidental fires.
I give my support to the amendments to that report which enable the continued use of the most stable isomer, that is decaBDE, until such time as this substance has a complete risk assessment and its real uses and risks are assessed and we have some conclusions on it.
Everyone has already said that this is a very difficult matter since various interests backed by large lobbies are involved, but also fire safety and the long-term protection and future of the environment.
This concerns bromide-based flame retardants, but also a socially very relevant theme.
The previous speakers have clearly shown the problems this creates for the environment and public health.
OctaBDE and decaBDE are, as a result of a Regulation on risk analysis, which is now seven years old, the first to have been placed on the first list of priority substances for risk analysis.
Although I should have preferred to see an immediate ban on bromide-based flame retardants - as my fellow MEPs are aware - I completely support the compromise, since it is also acceptable.
It poses a risk to the environment, is bioaccumulating and has been found in human breast milk.
In response to the findings of a risk assessment under the regulation on the evaluation and control of existing substances, the Commission proposed, in January of this year, a directive banning the marketing and use of pentaBDE.
The Commission' s proposed directive covers all uses of pentaBDE, and articles containing pentaBDE.
Suitable alternatives, both in technical and economic terms, are available.
The proposed directive provides not only for the protection of the environment, of consumers' and workers' health but would also preserve the Internal Market.
The Commission is also unable to accept the amendments that would introduce bans on octaBDE and decaBDE taking effect from 1 January 2006 if the risk assessments do not conclude that the substances cause no reasons for concern (Amendments Nos 8 and 16).
Accordingly, these substances would be totally banned from 2006 if the assessments show concern or they would be left totally unregulated if the assessments show no concern.
The Commission favours a more nuanced approach which would mean that measures could take effect much earlier than 2006.
As the assessments are expected to be completed in the autumn of 2001, the chosen measures could be effective well before 2006.
Nor is the Commission able to accept the amendment on procedures for risk assessment under Regulation 793/93 (Amendment No 4).
To summarise our position, the Commission can accept Amendment No 5.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1 to 4 and 6 to 16.
However, the Commission can, in principle, support the first part of Amendment No 2.
We wish to carry on the dialogue with Parliament and I am convinced we can reach a constructive solution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Quality and safety standards for human blood and blood components The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0272/2001) by Mr Nisticò, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the quality and safety standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components.
The directive fills a void which has existed in Europe up to now around standards of blood quality and safety.
The objective of this directive is primarily the protection of donors and patients, finally making it possible for all the Member States to have the same standards which ensure the maximum possible level of quality and safety of blood and blood components, not only for blood available in the countries of the European Union but also for blood imported from third countries.
There are also recommendations to the Member States to strengthen scientific research in the sector.
The existence of a new European directive which provides for the same standards of quality in the individual Member States will facilitate the free movement of blood from one European Union country to another and remove uncalled-for restrictions on donors moving between countries.
The European Parliament provides for the person responsible to have a qualification in medicine, preferably with a specialisation in haematology or transfusion medicine or related medical specialisation.
In order to gain a better understanding of the importance of monitoring each stage in the process, it is worth considering the unfortunate, terrible, adverse reactions which have occurred and which we hope will never occur again, for example AIDS, hepatitis B and C and other, sometimes fatal infections, like anaphylactic shock or endotoxic shock.
Finally, the principle by which all donations should take place on a voluntary non-remunerated basis has been strengthened by numerous amendments from Parliament.
The shortage of blood and plasma is a well-known problem in Europe.
As regards imported blood - Amendment No 43 - it should be specified that the criteria this amendment refers to relate to the quality and safety of the blood.
In conclusion, Mr President, the guarantee of high standards of quality, effectiveness and safety of blood provided for in the directive will mean greater peace of mind for European Union citizens about any treatment with blood, as well as greater confidence in the European institutions and the national authorities.
Mr President, a well-regulated and hence safe supply of blood is of great importance for the health of the European citizen.
If we start meddling with this principle, that will have a disruptive effect on the public bloodbanks which we are familiar with in a number of Member States.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the Commission for now having led the way by implementing the new provisions in the Treaty of Amsterdam establishing quality and safety standards for, among other things, human blood and blood components.
Blood donated from a country' s own population is clearly the best solution, and I would therefore urge all countries to establish large pools of donors who see it as their task, both personally and as members of society, to give blood and plasma to help other people in their own societies.
Many countries have already established pools of donors.
It can be done in actual fact, and there is therefore no excuse for those countries which have still not established such pools.
There are sectors of industry which have lobbied powerfully against non-remunerated blood donation and, as usual, patients have been elbowed out of the way in the process.
I think it provides food for thought that those countries in which there is non-remunerated donation by a large and stable body of donors are also, in actual fact, self-sufficient in blood and plasma.
Naturally, all patients must be able to obtain these, but I believe that we serve patients best by having non-remunerated blood donation and thus securing blood of the highest quality.
This directive is essential.
I should also say that it also provides for the free movement of donors and blood products within the Union.
Having said that, patients now face another threat: the shortage of plasma and plasma derivates in the Union.
That is why the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is opposed to the absolute and immediate obligation to make donation non-remunerated, that is to Amendments Nos 55 and 56, which, I would like to say in passing, also seem to run totally counter to the whole principle of subsidiarity.
So it is not the principle of non-remunerated donation that is being questioned, but compulsory non-remuneration.
I am also and above all opposed to these amendments because they totally disregard the concerns of patients.
This is repeated in several places, in several recitals, in the compromise amendment which we have tabled together with the PPE Group.
This is an objective imposed on the Member States in accordance with the conditions and timing laid down in Amendment No 75, but making non-remuneration an absolute condition for donating blood would be a disaster for patients, and I mean patients and not industrialists, Mr Lund, because we have had in-depth discussions with haemophiliacs in particular.
Let me remind you that Europe has 7 million blood donors out of a population of 360 million.
Mr President, we have been waiting for a long time for a directive on blood quality, which is vital to ensure safety for donors and recipients at European level.
As we have seen, there remains an important question on which there is no consensus between us: whether donation should be remunerated or not.
We believe that the principle of non-remunerated blood donation is very important, a principle applied in many European countries without leading to shortages, and we cannot accept that this principle should be undermined, for two essential reasons.
The human body is not a commodity.
Recent information on the hundreds of thousands of Chinese now affected by AIDS because they have sold their plasma is a tragic illustration of this and we do not want the same situation to occur in Europe tomorrow.
It is essential that this directive creates uniform standards for the safety and quality of blood and plasma in the Member States.
This also helps to minimise the risk of infection.
Plasma is required to produce vital medicines such as coagulation factor 8 and coagulation factor 7 for haemophiliacs, and immunoglobulins to prevent infection in patients with congenital immune deficiency.
Mr President, the safety and quality of blood products have never been so important.
I believe that every Member of the House wants to be reassured with the knowledge that there is a level of safety and quality of blood and blood products throughout the transfusion process in Member States.
As we all know, the main area of difference between Members has been on the issue of remunerated and non-remunerated blood products.
As the European Blood Alliance outline, voluntary and non-remunerated donations of blood and blood components are considered to be a gift from healthy citizens to those in need.
That is Amendment No 43.
Many haemophiliacs and those with immune disorders depend on blood products from the US, the reason being that in Scotland and the UK we no longer use plasma from UK donors to make blood products because of CJD and rely instead on imports of plasma from the US.
I hope Members will support it tomorrow.
It would be a tragedy in a very real sense because the WHO points out that there are 80 primary immune deficiency conditions in our world and it is estimated that some 50 000 to 90 000 people in our Europe suffer from those conditions.
Europe uses 7 million litres per annum, and 4 million litres come from compensated donors.
In the United Kingdom they are all voluntary but in the United Kingdom, as we have heard, there is no plasma coming from UK donors for blood products because of the theoretical risk of variant CJD being transmitted by blood.
Nor can we take any from other countries in Europe.
It does not matter about blood banks or plasma banks in Europe - we cannot take them from countries in the EU where there has been BSE or new variant CJD so we have to look elsewhere, and we and others rely largely on the United States' supplies.
Amendment No 43 would ban the import of such literally life-saving plasma and I urge the support of this House for the rapporteur' s compromise amendment.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive setting standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components has come at exactly the right time, given recent developments in the medical and public health sectors.
I should like to highlight two points where I have tried to improve the Commission text - and hence safety - for both the donors and the recipients of blood or blood components.
In Greece, the demand has increased to the point at which about three in ten patients require blood and, despite the increase in the supply of blood from volunteers, more and more blood has to be imported.
The fact that we want blood donors to be volunteers should not be expressed in absolute terms.
But with HIV tests, for example, there is a certain window period, as it is known, when the virus still does not show up.
In Austria 200 schillings is a nominal amount for the donor, but in Eastern Europe it is a considerable income.
It is nevertheless intellectually dishonest to open up this whole area to market forces just because there is a shortage of plasma.
At the same time I would like to ask my colleagues to support the oral amendment I intend to propose for Amendment No 43.
It would allow exceptions to be made in cases where the plasma shortage really is an insurmountable problem.
While I agree - and no one disagrees in this House - that we must foster a culture of voluntary donations as the norm, as the ethos, in all our Member States, I plead with this House not to specifically exclude paid donations.
Today 40-50% of plasma products used each year by European patients come from plasma donors who are compensated for their time and inconvenience for this lengthy process.
Commissioner Byrne, I would like to put a question specifically to you and maybe you could answer it in your reply: do the amendments which were passed in the Environment Committee violate EU law, particularly various sections of Article 152?
The doctors' organisations, the patients' organisations throughout Europe are pleading with us not to specifically exclude paid donations.
Mr President, let me first say that I am very grateful for all the work on this important and ambitious directive.
Important, as it constitutes our first directive based on the new and strengthened provisions in Article 152 of the Treaty, and ambitious, as a crucial element in our overall health strategy.
Our proposal for a directive builds on these achievements.
This new directive will cover blood and blood components not considered medicinal products in so far as it will ensure a comparable level of quality and safety throughout the blood transfusion chain in all Member States.
In addition, the directive lays down provisions at Community level for a quality system for blood establishments and for the training of blood establishment staff.
I am pleased to note that the amendments debated today in general are very supportive of the basic approach of the Commission to issues related to blood safety and the way these should be addressed at Community level.
I appreciate the very valuable contribution of the European Parliament.
There are in addition a further 23 amendments which include valuable ideas that we can endorse, but which, as drafted, are not fully acceptable.
I will therefore concentrate on four key areas, where there are several amendments which we cannot accept, and where I believe that some clarification of the Commission' s position will be helpful.
We all agree that the principle of voluntary, non-remunerated blood donation is of a very high ethical value.
Therefore I welcome, and will actively support, any contribution the Community can make to achieve comprehensive application of this principle.
But we have to carefully analyse all aspects of the issue.
Much of the plasma used for these drugs in Europe does not come from donations which can be considered 'voluntary, non-remunerated' in the strict sense of the words, and it is difficult to see how these donations could be replaced in the short term.
I endorse their views and I accept what they said in relation to this issue.
Article 152 of the Treaty does not allow the Community to adopt measures which 'affect national provisions on donation' .
Such a provision might therefore be challenged before the Court of Justice due to lack of an appropriate legal basis or on the grounds of subsidiarity.
For these reasons, I can only partly accept Amendments Nos 55 and 56.
As already indicated, I am prepared to discuss any solution that would make it clear that a comprehensive application of the principle of voluntary, non-remunerated donation is a central long-term aim of the Community.
Amendments Nos 1, 3, 7, 8, 12, 60 and 61 aim to introduce declarations or requirements of enhanced ethical standards in one way or another.
All of them are certainly worthwhile discussing and studying in detail, but from our point of view they are not really suitable for this directive, because they are either not directly linked with its objectives or do not have a legal basis in the Treaty.
Some of you said that remunerated donations have a greater risk from a safety point of view.
In view of the fact of what I said earlier in relation to other safety measures like screening tests and inactivation steps, these provide the degree of security that is necessary having regard to this particular debate.
I would urge Parliament to take this very much to heart when considering voting on this issue tomorrow and to follow the views that I am expressing on this.
I fully endorse and fully agree with the views of many of you who have already spoken on this issue.
The Commission can accept this in principle, but legal clarity has to be maintained as to the respective fields of application of this directive and Directive 89/381/EEC on blood and plasma derived products.
Let me be clear: Everything made from blood and used in human therapy should fall under either this directive or the existing Directive 89/381/EEC.
The third point relates to the technical standards.
I appreciate this approach and I am very grateful for the trust in the work of the Commission shown by this move.
If the Council can accept this solution, my services will immediately start to draw up proposals for technical standards in order to ensure that they are adopted before the directive comes into force.
We will fully use the pioneering work of the Council of Europe.
Amendments Nos 39 and 41, which refer to another directive or ISO standards as reference for standards introduced under this directive, cannot be accepted.
We are also unable to accept Amendment No 22 introducing a definition of traceability, which in my view is not only too general but also not covered by the Treaty.
In summary, for the reasons I have set out, 19 amendments are not acceptable.
These are Amendments Nos 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 12, 19, 20, 22, 30, 33, 39, 41, 44, 47, 60, 61, 69 and 73. 52 amendments are acceptable in full or in part.
The following 23 amendments are acceptable in part: Amendment Nos 2, 5, 10, 13, 14, 15, 17, 21, 27, 28, 32, 35, 43, 46, 55, 56, 62, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71 and 72.
The remaining 28 amendments can be accepted in full, including Amendment No 75, the so-called 'compromise amendment' .
Indeed, the fact that the Commission can accept in whole or in part 52 of the 71 amendments shows our willingness to take on board Parliament' s substantial policy contributions and our confidence that together we will be able to bring forward this important objective and have it adopted as quickly as possible.
It is absolutely certain that blood from a voluntary and stable body of donors who readily make their blood available to their fellow members of society is of a better quality than blood obtained from people wishing to supplement their income in this way.
The debate is closed.
