Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first and foremost, I wish to express my gratitude to the European Parliament, and particularly to the rapporteur, Mr Gierek, for the interest and support shown regarding the Research Fund for Coal and Steel.
On 10 July 2007, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council decision on the revision of these technical guidelines.
The interest from this Fund amounts to around EUR 60 million a year, which makes it possible to provide top-up subsidies for research that does not come under the 7th Framework Programme.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (CS) After a period of five years, in accordance with the Council guidelines, the European Commission reviewed the operation of the Research Fund for Coal and Steel.
I welcome the fact that the Commission's proposal consistently reflects the changes that have taken place over the last five years, takes account of the provisions laid down in the Accession Treaties at the time of 2004 enlargement of the EU (one specific example already mentioned is Estonia's Treaty of Accession), incorporates the fact that the definition of the term 'coal' is now broader, and focuses in particular on job protection and on effective use of materials and energy resources in production and manufacturing industries.
The report should thus take into account, for example, the geographical location of reserves: this will contribute towards more effective energy use and better energy security in the European Union as a whole.
on behalf of the PSE group. - (RO) The Research Fund for Coal and Steel was established after the expiration of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, the first treaty upon the foundation of the European Union.
Steel is a product still used by many industrial sectors, but research is necessary in this sector as well in order to identify cleaner and more efficient solutions from the energy point of view.
In Romania, approximately 34 million tons of coal are extracted every year and approximately 8 million tons of steel are produced.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those people who championed the irrelevant amendments in committee.
On 5 and 6 March we spoke in Brdo, Slovenia, about more focus and bundling of European projects.
The problem is the extremely low budget allocated to this fund: 57 million euros every year.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I appreciate the comments which support the proposal as much as I appreciate also the comments which called for a view of how we will approach energy and climate change solutions in the future.
Do not forget that the financing of energy in 1980 was approximately four times higher in Europe than it is today.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) In Poland, 95% of electricity comes from coal-fired power stations.
in writing. - (ET) Under the Protocol to the Nice Treaty on the expiry of the European Coal and Steel Community Treaty and on the Research Fund for Coal and Steel all assets of the ECSC were placed at the disposal of the European Commission in 2002.
The Polish rapporteur, Adam Gierek, has proposed replacing 'oil shales' in the definition with 'bitumen shales', on the ground that the term 'bitumen shales' also covers 'oil shales'.
in writing. - I was Parliamentary rapporteur when discharge was being granted for the last time in respect of the European Coal and Steel Community's activities.
