Mr President, may I, on behalf of the Presidency, state very clearly that the latest reports on migrants who have lost their lives when their boats have foundered in the Mediterranean, the reports of tragedies that have occurred there, remind us of the responsibility that we as Member States have in this domain.
This is why the Presidency, by agreement with the Commission, has decided that the Council of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers should debate this issue at their next meeting on 12 June.
That is the solidarity to which I am referring, and those are the guiding principles to ensure that the tragedy that occurred a few days ago - it is not a question of accusing or blaming anyone for it, but of learning a tragic lesson - can never happen again.
However, the burden Malta has to carry is already disproportionate.
Commissioner, this Parliament is so eager to get Frontex's operations started that it has doubled the Frontex budget.
Seeing as this is not the problem of solely one country, the burden constituted by the immigrants rescued from Maltese waters ought to be distributed between everyone: - yes, between the 27 Member States of the European Union.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, it is absolutely intolerable that, every summer, we witness human tragedies on the borders of Europe.
The Commission must ask for commitments from Member States at the next Justice and Home Affairs (JAI) Council: we must ensure that no events of this kind can ever happen again.
I believe, however, that we are all responsible for this tragedy.
I received messages from many Maltese who are people who care and who are distressed at seeing immigrants treated in this fashion and their country in this situation.
Europe must show its solidarity and take action so that costs and responsibilities are shared by all Member States.
The Dublin II regulation is obviously not appropriate, especially for a small country like Malta.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, illegal immigration should be addressed as a matter of urgency, because that is what it has been for a while.
Commissioner Frattini will need to join forces with Commissioner Barrot in this.
It would have been avoidable, as Commissioner Frattini said, if Member States had prepared a plan B for when Libya fails to carry out its obligations.
That covers many of the transit and origin countries too.
This, sadly, was by no means the first tragedy; over the last ten years more than 9 000 human beings have drowned while trying to reach Europe, but this was the worst tragedy in the last ten years.
As the great tragic playwrights of ancient Greece taught us, we ought to start afresh from that point, not least so that we can develop a new idea of reception and hospitality for Europe. (DE) Mr President, Mr Gloser, Commissioner, it is important to recall today the pictures we have all seen in the newspapers and on television.
A boat would be spotted from the air, and by the time the local rescue operation was launched, the boat was no longer there, and 53 to 57 people had drowned.
That is why I am calling quite specifically for this humanitarian disaster to be one of the main items on the agenda at next week's meeting of the Council. (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have once again had pictures shown in our homes of desperate situations and deaths of emigrants.
These pictures once again show the most dramatic and visible face of illegal immigration.
More than 9 000 people have already died trying to cross the Mediterranean and, with the arrival of the good weather, this figure will continue to grow.
Frontex now has a budget of 35 million euros.
The assistance to Member States and the coordination that Frontex is supposed to provide are not working.
In a press release on 24 May, the Commission reported that the number of aircraft, ships and other items of equipment made available to date had been satisfactory.
If the Frontex agency has been set up by us and is so well funded, it must perform.
Somebody needs to remind the Maltese Foreign Minister that a fishing boat flying the Maltese flag decided to leave 27 people clinging to a tuna fishing line because they thought it was more important to save the tuna they had caught than human lives.
Until now, it seems that Frontex has simply been an agency that has been too stunned to take action, due to the enormity of the crisis facing it.
Yet, no country can go on trying to cope with this tragedy alone, especially one as small as Malta and one that is already carrying a far greater load than it can bear.
Thank you, Mr President.
The Council ensured that the centralised record of available technical equipment, the Frontex toolbox, was stocked up and that Frontex, at least in principle, has more than 100 ships, aircraft and helicopters at its disposal.
I must say, however, that it would have been better if we had been able to launch these operations a few weeks earlier.
It is nevertheless true that many of these measures have come too late and that it would have been better for the people concerned if more rapid and efficient action had been taken. (NL) Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, I think this is also attributable to the lack of efficiency in the Council's decision-making procedure.
For this reason Malta is entitled to the solidarity of the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I endorse what Mr Altmaier has said.
As somebody mentioned, we have had a major increase in funding for Frontex: EUR 35 million for 2007.
However, EUR 13 million of that has been withheld and therefore cannot be used, and the corresponding spending cannot be undertaken.
I said the same thing a few weeks ago, after reading the commitment statements by the Ministers for Internal Affairs of at least 19 European countries.
What I said then, at the end of May, was that for this summer we have over 100 boats, over 100 patrol vessels, 25 helicopters and 20 aeroplanes.
Had we had not five but 50 patrol vessels, perhaps a vessel might have arrived sooner to save those people from drowning.
That is also the subject of a proposal adopted today by the Commission, a Green Paper on asylum policy from now to 2010, as this Parliament requested.
In September 2006, Parliament launched an appeal to Member States and to the Commission in a resolution adopted by all the political groups.
