The Commission proposal is a response to a request made by the European Council last December to present a proposal on voluntary modulation.
Moreover, the text reflects the non-cofinancing requirement for an amount of EUR 320 million as part of the Rural Development Fund allocation to Portugal, which was also agreed at last December's Council meeting.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, let me take this opportunity to once more express warm thanks to all my fellow Members from all the groups who have supported me in creating a framework worthy of this debate, which is of such great importance to this House and to Europe's farmers.
Following a decision by the Council - which, as is so often the case with agriculture debates, is notably absent today - the Commission submitted a proposal according to which 20% of agricultural direct payments would be shifted from the first pillar of CAP to the second, from which they could be spent without mandatory co-funding.
That is a concession by the majority on the Council and, whether it wishes to or not, on the part of the Commission, as part of the budget compromise reached in December 2005.
Taken together with the cuts resulting from mandatory modulation and those generally expected after the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, what this means, for those Member States that want to apply this voluntary modulation, is a reduction in payments of something like one-third over against what they were in 2003.
In the absence of any impact assessment on the part of either the Council or the Commission, we caused evaluations to be carried out, and these confirm, not only that there will be massive distortion of competition and illegal discrimination against the farmers concerned, but also that modulation does nothing to serve the objects of the Community in rural areas, but rather jeopardises them to a considerable degree.
Since, moreover, the transferred Community funds are not to be spent in accordance with a strategy laid down at Community level, we find ourselves in the paradoxical situation in which the renationalisation of agriculture policy is being paid for entirely from Community funds, particularly when one considers the way the Council is thinking ahead; I would ask you to take a look and see what happens at the next meeting on 14 November, this very week.
My colleagues in the committee, and I myself, are willing to join them in this, but the Council must make a move.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, my report has received unanimous approval in this House's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
What matters most of all to the European farmer is the common market of soon to be 500 million consumers who we must try to retain as much as possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have not been in this House long, but I have been here long enough to realise that solid agreement between the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budgets, such as we have here with the rejection of this draft, is not that frequent an occurrence.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, according to Government figures, the average earnings of farmers in my constituency in Scotland in 2005 were GBP 10 000, or EUR 14 000.
But worse, this naked discrimination against UK farmers will place them at a huge competitive disadvantage to all other farmers in every other Member State in Europe.
The conclusion adopted by the European Council that a Member State may cut a farmer's direct aid and marketing payments by a maximum of 20% was both unexpected and very badly formulated.
The European Council decided that even export aid could be cut.
Voluntary modulation would entail moving funds from the EU budget's compulsory expenditure to non-compulsory expenditure.
It is not easy to justify this rejection on the basis of the money involved, but the offer being made to us is an improper one.
Keeping them stable until 2013 is the minimum of certainty we owe to our farmers.
Re-nationalisation of the common agricultural policy was introduced in the new Member States, which in 2004 paid as much as 75% to the first pillar, while the old fifteen members benefit from 100% EU support.
The Council's decision last December to allow voluntary modulation may lead to distortion of competition between the farmers of different Member States, depending on the percentages of modulation that they choose to adopt.
The new Member States are characterised by significant under-investment in the farming sector and their farmers' incomes are vastly disproportionate to those in the other Member States.
The important aim of developing rural areas, to which the money thus saved would be directed, should be pursued on the basis of other funds.
We could restrict regional payments to recipients with a maximum not of 50, but of 100, 200 or 500 and more hectares.
Financially, they will be in a totally invidious position compared to other farmers in all parts of the other 24 EU Member States.
I must say to the Commission, the Council and the UK Government that they should not blame us if now they do not have sufficient funds to support some of their proposals for the rural and environmental development of the countryside.
That is why I am calling on the Commission to propose, instead of voluntary modulation, an identical increase in the rate of compulsory modulation in all of the Member States.
I should also like to stress that compulsory modulation currently applies as soon as a farm receives more than EUR 5 000 in agricultural support per year.
The European Agricultural Fund for Rural Regional Development should also serve this purpose.
Any other course of action may end up by destroying European solidarity in this area. (PL) Mr President, in order to keep European agriculture competitive, we must maintain the current level of direct farm payments in the old Member States, and not introduce the additional modulation of 20%.
The decision to exempt Portugal from cofinancing for the amount of EUR 320 million is a fair one and comes on the back of a number of Council decisions aimed at offsetting the recognised difficulties faced by Portuguese farmers in relation to the CAP as it stands, whereby farmers have been manifestly penalised.
In fact, the Council has managed to unite the whole Parliament against this proposal.
Please think again and come back with a new proposal. (HU) Mr President, the use of the current Community payments, when placed alongside the decision of the European Council taken in December 2005, according to which Portugal receives special treatment through an exemption from the cofinancing requirement, raises serious questions about the budgetary decision-making process.
Tomorrow, if - or I should say when - the European Parliament rejects the Commission's proposal, I intend to raise the issue with my fellow Commissioners in order to consider our position carefully.
