On behalf of the European Parliament and in my own name, I express my most profound sympathy and solidarity with the families of the victims of this terrible and tragic accident.
We also commend the swift and vigorous action of the Turkish Government in seeking to apprehend those behind an indiscriminate, senseless and criminal anti-Semitic attack, one that struck at the place of traditional peaceful coexistence between different religions.
Intolerance and anti-Semitism in all their manifestations are abhorrent to the values that we represent.
The following changes have been proposed: I have received a request from the PPE-DE Group for a separate debate on its Oral Question on Eurostat to be taken immediately after the Commission statement on the legislative and work programme for 2004. &#160;&#160; Mr President, both my Group and I appreciate that when we are seeking parliamentary time it is advisable to be brief.
We would therefore like to propose that this oral question be attached to the overall debate on the legislative and work programme for 2004, because over the weekend we heard that President Prodi will be raising the question of OLAF during that debate and we have a number of questions we would like to ask in that context, which are included in the substance of this oral question.
I want to say to the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that it is puzzling, their having become interested in this proposal.
The members of the PPE-DE Group are deeply untrustworthy in this matter. (1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, we members of the Communist Party of Greece also observed a minute's silence for the Italian soldiers and policemen killed in Iraq recently and for the victims of the bombings in Istanbul.
This situation is one which has been repeated many times over in relation to other human rights activists.
The only European Union embassies to have taken a stand on this issue are those of the Netherlands and Finland.
Mr Prodi has issued a political manifesto, in which he has outlined the strategy and necessities that the Left needs to embrace in order to secure an election victory in Italy.
It is important that the President of Parliament expresses our sympathy for the victims and our condolences to their families tomorrow, but I feel that it is also appropriate to thank all the armed forces of all the European countries who are currently on peace missions throughout the world.
Lastly, I hope that Parliament will make a firm commitment to implementing increasingly effective measures to combat terrorism, for the message which must be sent out by the European Parliament is that none of the European peoples are going to let themselves be intimidated by these cowardly attacks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Secretary of State Colin Powell and President George Bush are both in Europe this week: Colin Powell to meet with EU Foreign Ministers and President Bush on a state visit to Britain.
These are some of the reasons for the demonstrations against President Bush.
However, as well as us understanding their position, the Americans need to understand our objections, and our Foreign Ministers and Prime Minister must convey these objections this week. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you have already quite properly expressed the sympathy of this House to the Turkish Government and to the families of those killed and injured in the callous and indiscriminate terrorist attacks that took place in Istanbul on Saturday.
I regret to say that this is what is being done now in Scotland by Diageo, the multinational spirit drinks producer, which produces Cardhu whisky.
However, now Diageo is producing something called Cardhu pure malt whisky.
Mr President, please write to the chief executive and get Diageo to stop this! &#160;&#160; Mr President, since the Thessaloniki Summit, five months ago, several young Europeans have been detained in Greek jails.
I would ask the Presidency to call on both the Greek Government and the other institutions to adopt measures in relation to this problem. &#160;&#160; I should like to point out that I shall not reply to each contribution individually.
They will all be passed on to the President of Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 8&#160;November 2003 I was in The Hague participating in a demonstration in favour of the release of Slobodan Milosevic.
Speaking to the police I found out that there is a general rule against slogans written in languages that the police do not understand.
Moreover, if a Member of the European Parliament can be subjected to such embarrassing and humiliating treatment, I wonder what would happen to others, in particular those whose complexion is a bit darker than average.
Mr President, would you please ensure that a letter is written to the Ethiopian Government to urge it to respect that decision, in order to restore peace between the two countries after what has been a bloody and terrible war. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to bring to the House's attention the situation concerning a local councillor in Lancaster in the UK, who made public a decision made in secret by the cabinet of the City Council to suspend the local taxation owed to it by the local nuclear power station owned by British Energy.
On 17&#160;October 2003, Mr&#160;Alvaro Gil-Robles, the Council of Europe’s Commissioner for Human Rights, published a recommendation on ‘Certain aspects of law and practice relating to sterilisation of women in the Slovak Republic’.
In March 2002, I put a question about this to the Commission, which promised to follow up the matter and enquire of Slovakia whether proof had been found of such compulsory sterilisation really having taken place.
Mr&#160;Alvaro Gil-Robles, the Council of Europe’s Commissioner for Human Rights, has now published this evidence, and I would ask the Commissioner to fulfil its promise.
I hope that everyone else who, later in the debate, discusses issues of life and death will also consider this aspect.
The purpose of this proposal was to send a suitable message to the Albanian authorities and prevent any further attempt to undermine the democratic morale of the citizens and candidates of this country.
Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected by all the political groups and, again unfortunately, it was borne out by the sad events during yesterday's repeat elections in Albania, which saw very serious cases of intimidation, bombing attempts and so on, against citizens and candidates.
I trust that the European Union will draw the necessary conclusions from this unacceptable situation, which reveals attitudes and conducts which are absolutely foreign to the European perception of democratic values and process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to join with you in condemning these atrocious attacks on the Jewish synagogues in Istanbul.
As we all know, Turkey is a country that is proud of the fact that, when the Jews were being persecuted by the terrible pogroms in Europe in the Middle Ages, it gave them refuge.
The accident happened in July 2003, 4-5 months ago, while the was being piloted by a Pakistani pilot in the port of Karachi.
On 17 August, once the shipwreck had already been cut in two, a team from Greece headed by the shipbuilder, Mr Pappas, went to Pakistan in order to clean up the area.
I therefore call on Parliament to do what it can to help free these hostages. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I represent the south-east region of England and am the only Member to live in the county of Hampshire, very close to the port of Southampton, the home port of the new , which will be the greatest liner in the world.
I know that the people of Southampton, and the port workers of that city, would wish to associate themselves with the condolences expressed to the families of the people killed and to those injured in the awful accident at Saint-Nazaire. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the speech by the Greek Communist Member who condemned the USA as an imperialist occupier of Iraq is a little rich from a party which in its day supported the USSR's invasion and crushing of the Hungarian uprising in 1956, the Czechoslovak 'Prague Spring' in 1968 and the Afghan invasion in 1979.
Unlike Baroness Ludford, I welcome tomorrow's state visit by President Bush to the United Kingdom, and his commitment to hand over power to a democratically elected Iraqi Government by the end of next year.
I salute the courage of all the brave coalition forces in Iraq who are fighting for law and order and freedom and justice in that country, and against international Islamic terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I shall not comment on what the previous speaker said; I shall merely say that it is inconceivable to me that such reasoning should be heard in this House.
In all three Baltic States, the communist parties are banned and their cadres persecuted.
In Lithuania, the leaders of the Communist Party of Lithuania, Mikolas Burakevicius and Koulalis, have been in prison for ten years on prefabricated charges under a law passed long after they were arrested.
I should like to draw your attention to a letter containing specific facts … &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was extremely shocked at the fact that the behaviour of the police in The Hague was likened to that in a police state, only because they insisted on the placards that were being carried during a demonstration being intelligible to the public for whom the demonstration was intended.
This in turn will send out a positive message from the European Union that it is actually supporting measures which promote air travel at a competitive price and help the consumers of Europe.
The European Parliament supported the Year without reservation right from the start.
On 30 October, the Commission issued a communication about the follow-up needed to this Year.
The second is the successful incorporation of issues relating to people with disabilities in all policies.
This relates to our agreement on mainstreaming, so that this policy is not just a matter for the ministries of social affairs or the ministries of health or the ministries of employment, but is a horizontal policy which concerns all the ministries in each country and all portfolios at the Commission.
Today, a large number of countries have still not adopted the draft directive on equal treatment for people subject to discrimination.
The deadline expires at the end of December and, basically, only two countries have adopted the directive.
In other words, the workplace will have to be adapted to the needs of people with disabilities.
The Commission will perform its duty in full as guardian of the Treaty, as regards the adoption of the directive at the correct moment in time, its proper transposition – not in the wrong way and not without there being specific references to the European text – and of course its implementation.
The communication, as I said earlier, also focussed on the issue of horizontal policies relating to people with disabilities, in other words incorporation into all individual policies.
We already have examples at European level, with an important step in the field of transport and in the field of electronic communications, for which Commissioners de Palacio and Liikanen are responsible.
The incorporation of these issues into all the relevant policies must focus mainly on access issues, access to goods, services and buildings, and must be linked to the principle of 'design for all' expressed in the Commission communication which immediately preceded this communication.
The communication introduces a multiannual, rolling action plan.
The first priority is employment, which is also the most important factor for the social integration of people with disabilities.
Consequently, the first stage in the application of the action plan, which is to be developed between 2004 and 2005, will concentrate on putting the necessary conditions in place for promoting the employment of people with disabilities.
Our policy for the workplace will focus on four priorities: access to and staying in employment, lifelong learning, new technologies – which we consider to be one of the most crucial elements – because, with innovation and research, a series of new tools really can give people with all sorts of disabilities the power to deal with their disabilities.
At the same time, however, these tools must be cheap and accessible to everyone.
As one way of supporting the successful incorporation of these issues in policies, the Commission is proposing the publication of a biennial report on developments in each Member State, focussing each time on planning and new choices of priorities.
Finally, the Commission is proposing to further strengthen the contribution of all the interested parties and of the basic protagonists in the policy-making dialogue, so that we have major and permanent changes in the economy and society as a whole.
I should like to express my satisfaction about the facility being given to carry out a study, as called for by Parliament, on the situation of people with disabilities living in institutions, who make up another large category of our fellow citizens, with special problems of another sort.
I believe, however, that with all this activation during the Year in 2003, the issue of people with disabilities became a top priority on the political agenda both of the Member States and of the European Union itself.
He explicitly stated that the Union Presidency would take steps to lay the foundations for legislative measures to combat discrimination, producing, in practice, a directive protecting the independence and equal rights of millions of people with disabilities in all aspects of daily life in the new Europe, giving them genuine hope for the future.
However, to date, the Commission has neither provided a timetable for a future horizontal directive on the rights of people with disabilities, covering not just work but all aspects of life too, nor even given specific undertakings to integrate the rights of people with disabilities into policy, as confirmed in the recent communication, which would seem, rather, to be no more than the announcement of good intentions.
Here are some examples: with the directive on employment, the Commission’s aim is to achieve full employment of people with disabilities, which would be a step towards eliminating discrimination.
The coordination method could come to our aid here too, but there is too little mention of it in the communication.
It is the perfect time to take stock of the situation, but also to reflect on the future of Community policy in this field.
The lack of enthusiasm shown by Member States to transpose the directive on equal treatment in employment, for example, should be widely denounced, and compels us to do even more.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists has a clear position in this regard, and my colleagues and I are convinced that difficulties related to disability should be addressed across the board in an integrated way, taking as our model existing legislation on equal opportunities between men and women.
At the same time, the European Parliament of Disabled People, which met last week, regretted the fact that a specific European directive on disability would not be concluded during this important year.
Admittedly, the gamble taken on the employment issue is absolutely fundamental – no one can dispute that – but we want to believe, Commissioner, that this is just one step towards implementing Community legislation that needs to be even more ambitious.
These Community legislative measures are essential, and we recognise this, given the impetus that they should unleash, but we also know that it is at national, regional and local level that a whole series of coordinated policies need to be brought on stream, policies that must be accommodated within civil society by industry, the social partners and – let us not forget, where school-related issues are concerned – teachers.
We are counting on your multiannual report, Commissioner, precisely to exert pressure on those Member States that are not moving in quite the direction that we are recommending. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased that the Commission has produced the action plan on lifelong learning, new technologies, access to the built environment and so on, but we need to go much further.
We wanted to see positive outcomes and indeed that is what I wrote in my report.
Some of those things have been done, but I did not want this just to be a pat on the back for the Member States for having held conferences in major cities, or for them to say simply 'how wonderful we are to have had a European Year of People with Disabilities'.
If we do not get that specific directive, I, along with a lot of disabled peoples' organisations, feel that the European Year of People with Disabilities will have been a failure.
I am sorry to have to say that because we have made some progress, but without the commitment to a disability directive we have not gone far enough. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is true that some important initiatives for debate have been launched during the European Year of People with Disabilities, such as the Congress on Autism, held this weekend in Lisbon, and the European Parliament of Disabled People, which took place in Brussels last week.
Everyone had hoped for much more, however, at both Community and national level, particularly in my country – Portugal – which suffers from serious social problems, the highest rate of poverty in the European Union, many forms of discrimination and has seen cuts in fundamental public investment in areas such as education and health.
Regrettably, we are reaching the end of this European Year without having made any progress on a disability policy and without issues relating to discrimination and the human rights of these individuals being made the top priority of the various Community policies.
I must point out that the report I drafted on the scoreboard on implementing the Social Policy Agenda, which Parliament adopted in September, focused on the need to present a proposal during this Year of People with Disabilities for a directive based on Article&#160;13 of the Treaty to combat discrimination on grounds of disability.
The directive on equal treatment in the field of employment and occupation should also be transposed, establishing a broad definition of disability and laying down strict and effective penalties to be applied if the law is broken.
I would hope after this year some permanent changes will remain in the way at least some disabled people cope in their everyday life.
Furthermore, there is an implied danger under the new draft constitution that healthcare and other social services would be opened up to competition.
I therefore hope that the Commission will give this due consideration.
I believe that we should really go ahead and adopt it.
Finally, as you indeed already indicated, we will need to give a great deal of attention to the new Member States.
I am myself always sceptical when ‘European Years’ devoted to social policy objectives are declared, and, at the end of them one cannot actually point to anything having been achieved.
In my own country, too, a debate has got under way, which has as its objective, not only legislative measures but also, of course, the raising of public awareness.
For that, of course, we need legislative measures.
I am also glad that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has managed to get a line inserted into the Budget, not merely for a survey, but for following up all the things that have gone well in this European Year.
I would like to end with a slogan for the future, when disabled people will not just be ‘Getting on Board’ but also ‘Staying on Board’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Union's permanent preoccupation, at the level of communications alone of course, with people with disabilities, forms part of the effort to conceal the tragic reality, which is that there is 90% unemployment in the European Union – and not 70% as the leaders assert, with a dramatic increase in unemployed people with disabilities, in conjunction with a dramatic reduction in disabled children attending special schools or parallel departments in recent years.
In Greece, only 7% of disabled children attend special schools, which are financed by the insured, not the state.
They have, in fact, got the directive all ready on paper, and we would ask for progress to be made in that area in the meantime. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should not wish the European Year of People with Disabilities and the parliament we had last week to be seen as the end, but rather the beginning, of something.
Transport is also one of the EU’s areas of competence, and transport for all, including people with disabilities, also falls therefore within the EU’s competence.
It is regrettable that the Member States have not implemented the directive concerning the equal treatment of people with disabilities in the workplace.
The first is the new Member States.
Even though we face challenges in the present Member States, the challenges are still greater in the new Member States.
We must push our demand for majority decision-making when it comes to anti-discrimination.
The country that is least ambitious where discrimination is concerned must not be allowed to determine the agenda.
If we want to be efficient, we need to focus our policy on three objectives.
Secondly, we need to persuade finance ministers to recognise that expenditure on people with disabilities should be seen not as consumer spending, but as an investment in human potential and, consequently, as productive expenditure.
This will pave the way for taking the measures needed to stop the exclusion of these people.
In other words, the indifference or even, on numerous occasions, the negative attitude of our fellow citizens towards the special characteristics of these people needs to be overcome.
They deserve from us the opportunity and the dignity.
Anyone who has consulted and spoken with NGOs, activists and community groups on the ground, as I have in my constituency, will know that the people who represent our 37 million fellow Europeans are very clear in what they demand from us.
The European Year of People with Disabilities is coming to an end.
I would like, however, to say that this European Year has already been an enormous success, because never has there been so much discussion about this issue in so many different places and never have we been so aware of everything that we need to do, at all levels of responsibility, wherever we happen to be in the European Union.
I have been in contact for the last two years with all the ministers in all the Member States.
These difficulties are not simply a question of political will.
There are constitutional problems, there are political problems, there are legal and economic problems, because this is the first time we have had this sort of directive at European level and the majority of Member States did not have the basic experience needed to apply or, more to the point, adopt it within their legislative framework.
I would ask the honourable Members, as I have repeatedly asked the Disabled People's Movement, to make this their top priority in their countries.
A number of Members said that the European Union is all about grand speeches, nice resolutions, communications and conferences.
I really cannot accept that statement. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Diamantopoulou.
I should like first of all to thank the rapporteur and all of the members of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy for the high standard of their work.
My thanks also go to the rapporteur and members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
In the economy of the knowledge-based society that the Union has set itself the objective of developing in Europe, scientific research and technological development by definition play a key role.
The proposal tabled by the Commission on 9&#160;July was a follow-up to the Council of 30&#160;September 2002, during which the specific programmes were adopted for the implementation of the sixth framework programme of research.
The Commission is therefore proposing a set of principles, a framework which lays down very strict, clear and transparent conditions, both scientific and ethical, which are intended to govern the funding of research projects using human supernumerary embryos to develop new stem cell lines.
Imposing even stricter conditions than those proposed by the Commission would in practice amount to banning this research, when in fact it is permitted in accordance with the decisions already made by Parliament and the Council regarding the framework programme and its specific programmes.
I should like to underline that it is not our business here to lay down ethical rules for stem cell research in Europe.
The purpose of this time limit is to prevent Community financing providing any kind of an incentive to create additional supernumerary embryos for research purposes during in vitro fertilisation procedures.
I should also like to stress that funding for research using embryonic stem cells is in addition to funding for research on adult stem cells.
Research on both types of cells is necessary, in particular because their properties are different, as moreover are the medical applications envisaged.
Emotions have run high in recent weeks.
Many members of the European public have fundamental ethical convictions that lead them to reject research using the stem cells of human embryos.
Others advocate such research, and do so with great vehemence.
Commissioner Busquin was right to say that we are not here to decide on how reliable this sort of research is, or, therefore, to affect national laws, something that is also made clear in the Committee’s Amendment 1.
According to the Council decision on 30 September 2002, the end of this year marks the deadline for a decision to be taken on the use of human embryos and embryonic stem cells under the Sixth Research Programme.
This is where I have my first point of criticism to make, one also made in the amendments adopted by the committee, for the Commission proposal deals only with the procurement of human embryonic stem cells from human embryos.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has adopted a whole series of amendments that very definitely do take up a position on research using embryos and embryonic stem cells.
One very important amendment by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is Amendment 6, which the committee adopted by a large majority, and which states that: ‘according to an overwhelming majority of scientists, a transplantation of human embryonic stem cells to patients during the time frame of the Sixth Research Framework Programme (until the end of 2006) is not possible for purely scientific reasons, because this approach is mainly in the stage of basic research and a transplantation at the current moment would lead to non-calculable risks for the recipients.’ As this amendment makes clear, we cannot make exaggerated claims to the effect that we can cure everything.
Research into embryonic stem cells is at a very early stage, and the risk of cancer associated with transplantation into patients obliges us to be very, very cautious in our approach.
In these, we make it clear that the real object of our efforts is the use of adult stem cells in research and in the treatment of patients, but, from a purely scientific point of view it appears that we need embryo stem cell research simply to further develop research with adult stem cells.
This has already yielded real successes with real patients – real successes that have already been achieved, at least on an experimental basis, when treating patients with bone and cartilage damage, leukaemia, heart attacks, incontinence and even Parkinson’s disease.
So far in this debate, as you will be aware, I have always been among those who have expressed fundamental misgivings about research with human embryonic stem cells generally.
I nevertheless believe that, on most points, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has achieved a good compromise, and so I will defend to this House the committee’s position on most points.
I cannot, however, say that of Amendment 10, on which the committee outvoted me and adopted a form of words that supports the production of new embryonic stem cell lines and research on embryos themselves.
I do not therefore believe that it can be said that this approach is restrictive or inimical to research, and so I ask you to support Mr Nisticò’s amendments, 24 and 25. &#160;&#160; .
The Nice Charter of Fundamental Rights recognises the dignity of these rights&#160;–&#160;physical and psychological integrity&#160;–&#160;and there is therefore a moral obligation to protect embryos as human beings, irrespective of how they have been created.
It therefore follows that experimentation is only justified when carried out in the interests of the individual or embryos in question, and there are no justifications or extenuating circumstances, which could serve to balance out the interests of the individual, the fundamental rights of the individual, and the interests of society.
The issue goes beyond this kind of balancing out process because the protection of inalienable and fundamental rights certainly takes precedence.
The Union respects national identity, and so I am pleased to hear the rapporteur say that we are not going to diminish Member States’ legislation or cultural diversity.
Community law takes precedence over internal law and, therefore, over the basic law of the Member States.
Community law, despite the fact that it takes precedence in other sectors, cannot exist in all areas of general law because there is a limit, as the Constitutional Courts – of Italy, Germany and many other countries – have said repeatedly, for fundamental rights must be respected and take precedence.
As a research scientist, of course, I can only support the progress of science, in the primary interest of patients who have, for years, been placing their hope in new technologies, as has been said, which may provide a cure for or control debilitating, sometimes irreversible diseases such as Parkinson’s disease, spinal lesions which can cause paraplegia, tetraplegia, Alzheimer’s’ disease and so on.
That is why I want to thank Commissioner Busquin for his prolific efforts to achieve what is, without a doubt, a difficult compromise.
The decision that we will be called upon to take in this Chamber only concerns the funding of the Sixth Framework Programme and, therefore, relates to a fairly short period of time.
This is why I drew up a new compromise proposal, in order to find some common ground between scientific demands and ethical principles: indeed, my proposal&#160;–&#160;put forward by the PPE-DE Group, moreover&#160;–&#160;on the one hand, bans the funding of research projects which provide for the use of human supernumerary embryos, and, on the other, allows research scientists to use in experiments stem cells and stem cell lines from human embryos which are already available in laboratories and which were taken from supernumerary embryos before 27 June 2002.
I therefore hope that reason will prevail over emotion and prejudice in tomorrow’s vote in this Chamber, in the higher interest ofpatients’ health. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with a lot of what has been said so far.
The vote in the Industry Committee was a reasonable and proper one.
A number of colleagues have sought to reintroduce a very restrictive deadline on the use of supernumerary embryos, which is a very serious problem.
Personally, I would prefer that there should be no deadline, but I think that what the Commission proposes is the maximum practicable limit.
I appeal to this Parliament to support the compromise proposed by the Industry Committee and not to support restrictive deadlines.
Our position is therefore unambiguous.
Thanks to the compromise, it is possible to finance stem cell research with Community funds in those Member States where such research is permitted.
A moratorium has subsequently been imposed at the request of a few Member States; with effect from September 2003, European funding of stem cell research is frozen until the Commission tables a new proposal.
This Commission proposal is now before us and I urge my fellow MEPs to give it their backing.
After all, it is in line with our position of September 2002 and therefore provides consistency.
Indeed, not only has he introduced an end date, after which stem cell lines created before that date cannot be used, he has also limited the proposal's scope by permitting research only on existing stem cell lines.
When we debated the sixth framework programme, he fought against all research on embryonic stem cells.
Faced with his efforts, there is only one reasonable and balanced way forward and that is to support the Commission’s compromise text, a text that is fairly close to the compromise that was agreed by our Parliament when it adopted the sixth framework programme.
My position, summed up in three points, is as follows: firstly, to respect those who do not want this kind of research to be undertaken in their country; secondly, to refuse a European right to veto those who wish to, and indeed do, undertake this kind of research; thirdly, to restate our firm objective of funding research that seeks to save those suffering from incurable diseases and bring relief to those enduring intolerable pain.
In my own group, too, there are different opinions on that, but we can quite clearly agree on one thing, namely that it is not acceptable that research involving the destruction of human embryos, which is illegal and punishable in many Member States, should be funded out of the EU’s tax revenue.
It is utterly unacceptable, Commissioner, and something that the German public cannot be expect to tolerate – particularly since we are net contributors – that German taxpayers should be coerced into co-financing one out of every five projects in the field of research using supernumerary human embryos, that is, research in the course of which embryos are destroyed, even though this is a criminal offence under German law.
I think this is a problem for other countries in a similar way.
There is something on which I ask you to elaborate, Commissioner, something that I find utterly inexplicable, and that is that I have heard that what we are talking about here is nine research projects out of 15&#160;000.
It is my hope that we can avoid acrimonious debate and respect the right of Members to express freely their views on a subject that is complex, sensitive and, for many, a matter of conscience.
Whether we like it or not, the Commission proposal, if carried, will allow experimentation with the very origin of human life and the destruction of human embryos.
We have also seen in other areas what can happen through the abuse and misuse of science.
I do not want to see European Union funds being spent on a practice that is illegal in some countries, including my own country, Ireland, and also in Germany, Austria, Italy and Portugal.
It is unfair, disingenuous and indeed misleading to say that those who oppose funding for stem cell research are preventing the discovery of cures for serious illnesses.
That time is now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, is the European Union going to finance research involving human embryos, yes or no?
When we debate the funding of stem cell research, why can we not simply state the fact that in many Member States, this research is not permitted, and that, consequently, we should not use Community funding in those countries?
A principle could, for example, be: no European funds for research that leads to the destruction of human life.
Another example of a principle is: in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, no funds for research that is prohibited in certain Member States.
Another example from my Amendment 55: no funds for ethically objectionable research if less objectionable alternatives are available.
There are therefore alternatives to destroying human embryos.
What is happening in Europe, with the national laws of some Member States, is exactly the opposite, namely that ethical prejudices are blocking research for all citizens, not just for those who wish to stand aloof from such research and its results on ethical grounds.
The reason which you give, namely that new embryos must not be produced, is, quite simply, ridiculous, for any research scientist will tell you that this problem does not exist.
If scientific research were to be allowed, there would be no difficulty in obtaining embryos, nor would there be any need to produce them specifically for the purpose.
There are tens of thousands of embryos in Italy and, I imagine, hundreds of thousands in Europe, which have been frozen and for which there is only one alternative to scientific research: the dustbin.
An attempt is being made to impose an ethical and a moral principle, and this is being done&#160;–&#160;I am referring to those who are trying to table amendments which are even more limiting than the Commission’s proposal&#160;–&#160;by means of a device which we will not allow: setting up research on adult cells as an alternative to research on stem cells.
We do not know and we do not claim to know, nor do we presume to tell Parliament that one kind of research is better than another: they are both valuable.
We hope that the Italian Presidency of the European Union, which has been so respectful of the Union’s positions in failing to muster the courage to propose a moratorium on executions, will, at this juncture, seeing as this is the approach it has chosen to adopt, do the same where scientific research is concerned and not boycott the Busquin proposal.
Let us open the door to funding for therapeutic cloning! &#160;&#160; Mr President, research using supernumerary embryonic stem cells is necessary to bring closer the day when adult stem cells can be used therapeutically to cure 'dread diseases'.
This restricts funding of research by the European Union only to embryos which are surplus to IVF requirements and are destined for destruction only at the undifferentiated stage of development up to 14 days and only in those jurisdictions where there is effective and strict regulation and it is permitted by law.
I regret that our rapporteur has represented his own position, rather than that of the committee.
If it is valid to use embryos produced before a date, can it be invalid to use embryos produced after that date?
Yes, we must respect human dignity and I completely respect my colleagues' strongly held views as to what human dignity is.
We must persuade the Council of Ministers to do likewise. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this Parliament gave its views clearly during the reading on the Sixth Framework Programmes.
I regret that the Commission chose to introduce a date, because it has encouraged some Members of this Parliament to put forward even more absurd dates.
This has been done in a rather sly, hypocritical and misleading way in that not simply different dates, but also different procedures – with stem cell lines and not with embryos – have been proposed.
I remember the temporary committee on human genetics; yes to research and yes to the compromises reached in the sixth framework programme.
Moreover, I would draw your attention to the fact that, even though embryonic stem cells do after all affect first and foremost women, and what women carry within them, there is no question of their becoming research instruments, economically speaking.
I have to ask you again, Commissioner, whether it is true, as we have been informed, that this has to do with only nine of the 15&#160;000 projects forming part of the Biomed programme?
All the Member States that want to engage in this sort of research, and which has passed legislation permitting it, can do so, but without funding from the European Union.
If this is just about these few projects, then I ask myself why you are doing this and thereby needlessly bringing discredit on the Research Programme as a whole?
What matters to us – if this fallback position … &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate can clearly not avoid the basic issue and fail to deal with the fundamental ethical problems, even though they are not what we are here to discuss and decide on now.
As various speakers have stated, we are only looking at the issue of European funding for this type of research.
If there are Member States that wish to undertake this type of research, then let them.
Using Community funds, particularly funds contributed by citizens in countries where such procedures are illegal and are even prohibited by law, would constitute a breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
Stem cell research is only a question of life, as research can help save countless lives each year.
For this reason EU funding must in future be targeted at stem cell research.
As the Commission proposal also states, stem cell research is expected to play an essential role in promoting the development of forms of treatment in many areas of medicine.
This applies in particular to the treatment of various degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease but also to more common diseases such as diabetes, the number of cases of which has rocketed.
For Europe to be able to exploit stem cells successfully in the future the most important thing now is to set aside adequate resources for basic research into stem cells and furthermore permit the funding of embryonic stem cell research under the Sixth Framework Programme.
This will ensure that research in the field can make progress within a regulated framework and that European researchers and ultimately patient groups can benefit immediately from new knowledge and skills in the field.
If the use of stem cells is not permitted under the constitutions of some EU Member States, that must not be a barrier to research, and the benefits obtained from it as a result, in other EU countries.
In any case, we have to use our common sense in this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the revolutionary technique of therapeutic cloning echoes to a large extent man’s ancient dreams and myths.
It should be emphasised that, even today, it is impossible to tell which stem cells, those derived from embryos, from foetuses or adults, best meet the needs of fundamental research and clinical applications.
The answers clearly lie in undertaking scientific research and in the freedom given to scientists and researchers. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, given the way that society is currently organised, where economic decisions are determined by profit, I do not trust the way in which industrial groups use scientific discoveries.
If there is not enough money for research, we should take some from the defence budget, which, conversely, is steadily rising. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as has already been said here, a couple of years ago, when we held the debate on the Sixth Framework Programme, a compromise solution was reached on the conditions under which research on stem cells could be funded.
Consequently, now that we are debating the issue once again, it does not appear logical that that compromise solution should be considered an extremist position and that other parties, opposed to research on stem cells, should tell us: let us now seek a compromise between that solution and our position, which, at the end of the day, means rejecting any possibility of funding research with stem cells.
It is a form of subterfuge aimed at hindering the European funding of research with stem cells, when there are many countries which allow it, because there are significant sectors of the scientific community and of the social community in general which believe that researching with stem cells can lead to great progress in the fight against the extremely serious diseases which devastate us today.
Mr Ribeiro mentioned the principle of subsidiarity, well, let us accept it.
Let us not now aim, as a result of intolerance, not just to destroy the European Area of Research, but also to prevent and hinder successful research in this area in the countries where it is allowed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had the privilege of serving on the human genetics temporary committee in 2001.
The rapporteur produced a compromise that neither side, in the end, was prepared to vote for.
Most of us in this House would condemn that practice and yet some of us are seeking to do it here.
Never before had you had the chance to come into the world, and never again will there be another Marco Cappato.
Even as an embryo, you were already a personality.
I do not believe that anyone would say they were prepared to sacrifice their own child, even only as an embryo, for the sake of saving someone else. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was against the compromise reached by Parliament on this issue at the time, and I am against the Commission's proposal today as well and, consequently, the Liese report.
And there are procedural reasons for this, because I believe, in agreement with the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, that within the framework of the internal market and since there is freedom of establishment, Community funds cannot be used to finance research which is not permitted in some Member States.
Above all, however, I am against this for reasons of principle, because I am against any research which involves destroying a life, however incipient it may be and however noble the intended aims of this research are.
The possibilities opened up by research with adult stem cells are very hopeful and much closer.
Because, however many time limits we set, however many ethical principles we establish to justify this research, the destruction of an embryonic life represents a clear violation of the most fundamental of these principles, these principles which we say we defend and which we do defend: respect for human life and the dignity it deserves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as parliamentarians we have a duty to uphold the democratic will of the citizens we represent in keeping with the laws and the constitutions of our sovereign Member States.
It is unacceptable for human life, whatever its age, to be treated as a commercial product, without regard to that life or the price paid by women in supplying the embryos.
It is deeply disturbing that the European Commission, supported by Members of this Parliament and certain Member State governments, is seeking to impose public funding of controversial and unethical research without proper public debate and without the opportunity for national parliaments to respond.
This proposal is against not only laws and constitutions, but also the conscience of millions of citizens.
This controversial research has no scientifically positive results and, as our rapporteur has pointed out, is high-risk.
Let us use public funding for adult stem cell research, which has positive scientific results and may be as effective as research using embryonic stem cells.
Many Members have already raised the basic question: can the European Union, with great difficulty, adopt an initiative, which does not have backing in all the Member States of the Union?
On this matter, there is a basic problem, which politics cannot resolve: politics is the art of the possible and, without a doubt, the art of compromise, but compromise on fundamental values is impossible.
Therefore, on this matter, with due regard for the positions of all the Members and with due regard for the positions expressed by the Commission, all the attempts that have been made thus far seek to open the door to a new process, and that process involves tampering with the principle of life.
For some, this path is completely acceptable, and for others it is a path which is not acceptable because it runs counter to certain fundamental values.
As regards the process in question, I would draw your attention not so much to the initial phase, the phase we are experiencing now, which is extremely important because the treatment of a number of degenerative diseases is at stake, but to what will happen when we have decided to meddle with life: not in the short term, that is, but in the medium and long terms, and these are all questions of eugenics.
Let me quote from Professor Lars Hamberger, whose unequivocal response, in an e-mail, to the question as to whether these stem cell lines were available to European researchers was as follows: ‘At present, we have 24 stem cell lines, out of which 20 are relatively well characterised.
Mr Nisticò has again drawn my attention to the fact that his proposal actually goes further than the Americans’.
For that reason, I believe that Mr Nisticò’s proposal really is a good compromise. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order, I want to correct a misconception about the Irish Constitution which, it has been alleged, bans embryo research in Ireland.
The Irish Constitution does indeed ban abortion, but it provides for exceptions.
The issue is not as black and white as it is being presented. &#160;&#160; That was a point of clarification rather than a point of order. &#160;&#160; Mr President, regarding the order in which amendments would be voted, I would suggest that when we look at those amendments referring to the date we take first those furthest away from the Commission's proposal, which includes a date.
It was pleased to see that, at the vote in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, a clear majority emerged in favour of providing Community funding for research projects involving the procurement of human embryonic stem cells from supernumerary embryos and therefore the creation of new lines.
This is an important point in support of research which will in all likelihood have beneficial effects on the treatment of major health problems.
The Commission does, however, have some difficulties with those amendments that seek to remove the 27&#160;June 2002 cut-off date for the creation of supernumerary embryos, as proposed by the Commission on 9&#160;July.
In effect, the Commission, like Parliament for that matter, had gone along with the majority at the vote on the framework programme and that is why this date has been taken as a reference date.
On this basis, the Commission is able to accept a majority of the amendments, which are I might add excellent, thanks to the work done by the rapporteur and the whole of the committee.
The amendments concerned are Amendments 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18, either in full or in part, subject in some cases to their being redrafted.
The Commission cannot however accept Amendments&#160;2, 3, 5, 10, 11, 16 and 19, in particular because they seek to remove the date fixed for the reasons that I have just explained.
We wanted to produce a compromise and we wish to keep this date.
This applies, amongst others, to Amendments 5 and 10, which delete the reference to this date.
Amendment 11 removes a condition from the Commission proposal.
This is also a signal to those who are not in favour of these research developments.
In other words, many scientists, including those who are not, from an ethical point of view, in favour of research on supernumerary embryonic stem cells – like some of the professors who took part in our meetings – have to recognise that this method is worth exploring, that it complements research on adult stem cells and that it should not be ruled out.
I might add that he made a similar effort at the parliamentary vote in June 2002, because it was his amendment around which the consensus was built that formed the basis for the Commission proposal.
If you incorporate this amendment, you will therefore create the following problem: the only stem cell lines that were in existence before 27&#160;June 2002 are in American, Israeli and Asian hands.
You would not give Europe the slightest possibility of developing this type of research, which is worthwhile; you would not allow Europe to move from embryo lines to existing stem cell lines.
There are two in the United Kingdom and seven in Sweden (three in Karolinska and four in Gothenburg), but they appeared after 27&#160;June 2002.
I have every respect for differences in ethical views, but your line of argument does not hang together.
I would like to thank Parliament for its work on this difficult and sensitive dossier, which affects each one of us and indeed life itself.
But there is also a value: research.
The purpose of the Commission’s proposal was to try to respond, as has been said, to a concern expressed both by Parliament and the Council of Ministers at its meeting of 20&#160;September 2002.
Nevertheless, alternative methods, such as adult stem cells, offer very promising results.
Two comments must be made on the argument, which enables this fundamental research on embryonic cells to include adult stem cells.
The Commission proposal is ambiguous and inappropriate since scientists do not promise any results for 10 to 15 years and this research does not match the urgency of the needs of patients who are suffering while they wait for a treatment to be found.
We need to prioritise funding for research into adult stem cells, the only alternative method which does not raise ethical issues and which is a technique that has been approved by all Members.
I will not support the Commission proposal amended by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and I will vote in favour of the Gargani amendment, to which I also added my name. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A5-0389/2003) by Mr&#160;Linkohr, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on Investing in research: an action plan for Europe [COM(2003) 226 – C5-0381/2003 – 2003/2148(INI)]. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my report is less controversial, but, I believe, no less significant.
It makes the simple claim that Europe must invest more in research.
Only in this way can the European Union become the most competitive region in the world, which is what Europe’s Heads of State or Government called for in Lisbon as many as three years ago.
In 1997, all parties in the Japanese parliament joined in taking the initiative in adopting a ten-year plan, with substantial rates of increase to encourage young scientists.
In the past year alone, the sum of CAD 800 million was made available for the purpose of attracting foreign professors to the country.
UNICE is already talking in terms of the threat of de-industrialisation.
Firstly, there must be an increase in private-sector expenditure on research; a rate of increase of 9% per annum would be feasible if we were to do as the Commission communication on research policy recommends.
What this means for the EU’s research budget is that the Seventh Research Framework Programme must run to at least EUR&#160;30 billion.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and its members.
Once again this report shows, and I am delighted about this, the importance that Parliament attaches to research and innovation.
The Council of Ministers now regularly discusses research and innovation.
The Growth Initiative introduced research and innovation as a key element of European growth.
Mr&#160;Linkohr did, however, quite rightly mention that, in order to implement the 3% objective, an average increase of at least 8% is necessary, 9% for the private sector and 6% for the public sector.
The actions proposed in the action plan are aimed at many aspects, in particular creating a more favourable environment for private investment as well as in research and that regards, in particular, the areas of competition, intellectual property, the regulatory environment, financial markets and taxation.
Nor must we forget however, as you stressed, the issue of public support for research and innovation, which remains essential, as does, of course, the whole issue of fundamental research, and I will return to this after the speeches&#160;–&#160;which will no doubt provide some responses&#160;–&#160;on this European Research Council which is being discussed and formed.
I think that this is the key element in the approach and I feel that, with the joint action by Parliament, the scientific community, and industry, there is greater and greater awareness that this is a question of life and death for Europe, in economic and social terms.
I would like to thank you Mr&#160;Linkohr, and all of the Members too, for having given your backing to these issues and I hope that the next time I speak, I will of course be replying to more specific aspects of what has just been presented to you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would sincerely like to thank my colleague, Rolf Linkohr, for his commendable work in this important matter.
Member States should in future be free to devise their own policies so as to ensure that the competition rules which are within the Community’s competence are neutral in relation to the choice of instruments.
Indeed, some Member States have done precisely the opposite of what is needed.
The rapporteur, like many of us, endorses the Commission's recommendations and the action plan it has put forward.
We need the Finance Ministers of the European Union to look towards the seventh framework programme and the necessary funding.
I entirely support the creation of a European Research Council to give some coordination and coherence to our work, particularly in basic research.
A recent meeting with astronauts made me more aware of the potential for science in Europe if we take the messages of the Lisbon declaration seriously.
Moreover, the mobility of researchers in Europe is still a major problem, because researchers are being hindered by different working conditions in the different Member States.
They include the reference to competition-orientated research in paragraph 5, the approach to intellectual property rights from the point of view of the commercial interests of private undertakings in paragraph 26 and public intervention for market-orientated research and financing which abides by the rules of competition of the European Union in paragraph 32.
The above proposals and everyday political practice in research and higher education make the positive points in the report sound like a simple wish list.
That debate will allow a Financial Perspective to be drawn up, which increases the relative share of research and innovation in EU budgets, and will do so in order to respond to various needs that have been expressed and to sustain the 3% objective.
You are from a country that sets an example for us since, in Finland, 55% of small and medium-sized enterprises maintain regular contact with universities and centres of research.
You have spoken about this European Research Council, which seeks to place the best scientific teams in the area of fundamental research in competition with one another at European level and consequently to support these areas which, as has been said, are comparable with what is being done in the National Science Foundationwhere the best teams have programmes at US level.
We are, of course, thinking about all general network issues, all issues of space policy, regarding in particular the GMES and interactive telecommunications satellites; we are, of course, thinking about tri-electron lasers, which are crucial to the emergence of a new generation of research in molecular biology, in materials and in nanotechnologies because nanotechnologies will be essential, bearing in mind the shift from microelectronics to nanoelectronics.
We have made provision for a technological platform and, in this area; the Finnish centre is involved in implementing the shift from micro to nanoelectronics because it is there that the greatest challenge lies.
Here is our programme for us to reach the objective by 2010’.
The Commission’s role will therefore be to encourage, because even if we cannot decide for the Member States, we can still motivate them, show the best practices and support the process to this 3% in 2010.
The debate is closed.
I endorse his call for a significant increase in the amount of money spent on research in Europe with the aim of achieving the Lisbon targets, even though prompt transposition will be made difficult by the present tightness of many Member States’ budgets.
If research in the EU is to be built up on a long-term basis, any increase in expenditure must therefore go hand in hand with greater efficiency in the application and management of the resources and with a more pronounced bias towards basic research.
I am glad that the lead committee has agreed to my amendments in this regard.
The Commission would strongly support a vote in favour of these reports.
This programme will play a key role in achieving the objectives of the eEurope 2005 Action Plan.
However, the current 10% limit of Community financial support has proved insufficient to overcome the barriers to deployment at a trans-European level.
The Commission has proposed raising the maximum level to 30%, since both research and experience in other programmes show that this is the level needed to encourage deployment successfully.
However, as a former budget Commissioner, I should like to reiterate that the budget for the programme will nevertheless remain unchanged.
The scope of the new IDABC Programme will be broader than that of the present programmes.
The benefits resulting from the cooperation between public administrations across Europe extend to citizens and businesses.
IDABC supports, initiates and manages the delivery of pan-European eGovernment services with a view to giving business and citizens easy access to cross-border information and transactions.
I particularly welcome your involvement in the ongoing issues of the transposition and implementation of the new regulatory framework in the Member States.
The Commission has opened infringement proceedings against those Member States that have failed to notify measures.
In addition, in a few days the Commission will adopt the Ninth Implementation Report, addressed to Parliament and Council, which sets out in more detail the state of play of transposition as at 1 November.
Even if competition in the broadband market is still weak, the number of fixed broadband lines increased by nearly 80% in the year to October 2003.
Some of the key issues we are examining in our assessment of transposition measures include the role of national regulatory authorities, and the putting in place of measures to avoid over-regulation.
Accession countries will need to adapt their laws to comply with the new framework by May 2004.
The situation regarding transposition and implementation there will be fully covered in the 2004 report.
I want to recommend to Parliament that it accept the Commission proposal.
The Commissioner again is quite right that when the potential for deployment of a product is recognised, the main barriers it faces are financial ones.
To raise the ceiling in this way is a proper use of funds in the eTEN budget programme.
The IDA programme is more complicated.
This will build on that and also extend this cooperation to citizens and to businesses.
The Commissioner knows that I was the rapporteur on two or three separate IDA proposals and I note with some wry humour that this was long before the phrase 'eGovernment' was widely used or even invented.
The new programme will be called IDABC.
I pulled out here, and in my explanatory statement, five or six specific projects: the Solvit network, which provides a mechanism for people who come up against barriers to the internal market to raise the issue with the Member State concerned; the Euphin programme, which enables authorities to exchange data on public health issues, including communicable diseases in a fast and secure way; Ploteus, a portal that supplies information on learning opportunities around Europe; TourNet, a system for linking tourism administrations so that they can share information about their own particular areas; and finally Transcards, a more local and focused programme, which allows citizens living on the French-Belgian border to use the health facilities of either Member State, regardless of which country they live in.
This new proposal will bring not only tangible benefits in the IDA way, it will also bring benefits to European citizens and businesses.
It will facilitate the free movement of people, goods and services by making eGovernment applications more accessible across national boundaries.
I am confident that Parliament will also support him in this.
Mr President, I am reminded on occasions like this how very specialised these debates must appear to the rest of Parliament given that we are so small in number.
I know that all parliamentary reports are collective efforts, but this one very much represented a collective effort by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy as a whole, including the shadow spokespeople.
This is a model example of not only cooperation across parties, but also cooperation between institutions in ensuring implementation is properly and fully pursued.
The Commission can produce these in order to urge the laggards to take a good example from those Member States who are perhaps more advanced.
Second, our comments in this report on the regulatory structure and the European Regulatory Group are important.
Whilst many of us here understand that the Commission cannot take a formal position on this, it is worth stressing this evening that we feel there is absolutely no logical reason why these two bodies should coexist as is currently the case.
Finally, I would like to draw special attention to the importance of paragraph 9 in our report, which stresses once again that notwithstanding the emphasis in all the regulatory activity in recent years on increasing access-based competition, our long-term goal has to remain facilities-based competition.
It is to that end that I hope this implementation report has made some contribution. &#160;&#160; .
Many of us worked as rapporteurs or shadow rapporteurs on the electronic communications package of legislation over two years ago and it is important that we continue to show our political support and sustained engagement.
We know it is in the implementation phase now, but it sends a clear signal that this Parliament is extremely interested in what we regard as one of the most important pieces of internal market legislation and one that enhances competitiveness.
I would like to highlight one or two points that the Committee on Legal Affairs considered in relation to our work on the universal services and users' rights directive.
The second point is a practical one: we have put a lot of work into our directive on tariff transparency and publication, to encourage Member States particularly to address the issues of tariff transparency and comparison for private consumers and for small businesses.
Unfortunately I have not seen a great deal of evidence that Member States have really taken that on board and I hope that will be picked up in the Commission.
We would encourage you, Commissioner, and your team to pay close attention to this whole transposition, to make sure that we get the maximum benefit from this very important piece of legislation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, my task is a relatively simple one.
This means, Mrs&#160;Read, that I can keep my comments relatively brief.
In it, you express your desire to do away with the Commission’s distinction between ‘projects of common interest’and ‘horizontal measures’, thus allocating resources, totalling EUR&#160;59.1 million for 2005 and 2006, and EUR&#160;89.6 million for the period from 2007 to 2009, in a more flexible way.
The Commission’s new initiative for growth, the sixty-two projects in which are expected to be signed off by the Summit, deals precisely with this area.
I am delighted that the Commissioner and his staff have been adaptable enough to recognise that if the proposals put forward are not working as originally designed, the best thing to do is to, for example, concentrate on fewer projects in a more focused way and to increase the Commission contribution, since the 10% clearly was not stimulating the sort of initiatives we wanted.
We are a continent comprising many small countries with different traditions.
Commissioner, I am glad that in your eighth report you bring out some of your tough instruments and make it clear that you will instigate infringement proceedings against those Member States which fail to transpose.
The main aspects of the Commission’s proposals and of the reports have been highlighted, but I would like to insist on the aspects which appear to me to be fundamental.
Overcoming these two obstacles will clearly be the competence and responsibility of the Commission, but in this task it has the support of this Parliament and the Liberal Group which I represent. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I will focus on just one point: is a European regulation for telecommunications needed?
I would have liked Nick&#160;Clegg to give greater consideration to the analyses of distinguished economists from Oxford and Cambridge, who stress that if competition policy is then the regulation has to be to meet the economic, social and environmental aims.
The European telecoms sector has just come through a disastrous period in terms of investment and employment and has frittered away its lead with the GSM provision.
I will, therefore, endeavour to be positive by saying that the three reports, despite everything, form part of a policy intended to prevent the digital divide and, from this point of view, I will not just thank the two rapporteurs for their work, but the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will also support these three reports.
There is not just Bill Gates in the age of computers, and that is just as well.
The TEN programme is a decisive implementation tool alongside the general rules for granting Community financial aid in the area of trans-European networks.
The objective is to raise the aid ceiling to projects in the telecommunication sector from 10% to 30% and this proposal is not insignificant because it will probably enable the Lisbon objectives to be backed up and therefore Europe to be developed in the area of services of general interest.
This is precisely what we are interested in; that this is known as universal services or services of general interest, and that this service will in any case ultimately apply to all citizens and will be a tool that is strengthened for the good of all.
This concept of services of general interest is perhaps even truer, moreover, with the IDABC programme for the period 2005-2009.
We therefore support these projects.
I will say, to conclude&#160;–&#160;because it is interesting news&#160;–&#160;that the town of Munich for example, apart from the example that was set with IDA, has switched to LINUX, to free software, and I hope that other administrations will take up the same challenges. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for this report, which is, , technically detailed.
I feel that raising the maximum level is important for trans-European networks in general.
We started with 10%, we raised the figure to 20% at first reading and now we are talking about 30%: this is significant.
In addition, I must mention what is known as -rewarding, which we already see as a comparative document and which should, in the future, reveal the good States and the bad States and, above all, make it possible to intervene where it is necessary to use the funds in question.
When competition is on a global scale, telecommunications are urgently needed as a key to the future, and our telecommunications need to be highly competitive.
We know that there are, at present, a number of difficulties associated with the introduction of UMTS, because the auctioning of frequencies had an inflationary effect.
It is particularly important that these institutions should be independent, and I believe that, in the future too, we should take care to ensure the functioning especially of the technical interfaces in order to guarantee the systems’ interoperability.
We need action from the Commission, not just words, because delays not only penalise both new entrants and incumbents, but also put up barriers to the National Regulatory Authorities and the collation of information from the market players.
The second aspect concerns increasing the maximum funding level from 10% to 30% of a project’s total investment costs at implementation stage, but without increasing the overall budget, which is a problem, because this means that fewer projects will be taking part at a time when a balanced development must be guaranteed.
In this regard, forgive me if I leave behind telecommunications and comment on the planned South-East European high speed railway, where it is surprising that the Vitoria-Irún-Dax Atlantic branch, with a link to Bilbao, has been removed from the Commission’s final report, according to the requirements of the European Council, despite the fact that the Basque Government has made a financial commitment to this line and has been prepared to build it since February 2001.
Furthermore, this project can be in operation from the outset linking the French and Spanish States, via Irún, since there is already an international European gauge track throughout the French network as far as that point.
Mr&#160;Clegg quite rightly criticises Member States which, despite pressure from the Commission and the sector, have not done enough to adopt the new legislative package as part of their own legal system.
Interestingly, a couple of studies have been carried out recently which compared levels of productivity growth and development in the EU and in the United States.
The communications sector is one area in which Europe has done better than the United States.
Even though only two reference countries were used – France and Germany – productivity growth in Europe has been about 15% faster than it has in the United States over the last five years.
Therefore, the liberalisation of telecommunications within our regulatory framework has provided a real boost for innovation and competition.
I am also sure that investment into research and development has been very helpful.
All this shows that the right pressure for competition and a push for innovation also boosts productivity growth, which is a major benefit for the whole sector.
The big challenge in applying these regulations will be how to build a bridge from service-based competition to facilities-based competition.
Mr Herzog made a very interesting comment.
Finally, Mrs Gill, as far as our measures on the implementation of the regulation are concerned, the Commission is extremely strict when it exercises its role as guardian of the Treaties.
The infringement procedure has three phases.
We will be extremely cool and objective in applying these principles, so there is no reason for concern in this respect.
The debate is closed.
That directive includes some aspects of the commercial diesel proposal and notably it gives Member States the possibility to apply differential tax rates to commercial diesel and non-commercial diesel.
However, the energy tax directive is still based on the principle of minimum rates only.
Hence, it does not remedy the problem of distortion of competition on road haulage markets, which stems from the significant differences in diesel taxation in the Member States.
Only harmonisation, or at least a greater approximation, of commercial diesel taxation will put an end to those distortions of competition.
However, the debates in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have also shown that there is wide recognition of the existence of such distortions.
I recall that, according to Article 93 of the Treaty, provisions for the harmonisation of legislation concerning excise duties must be adopted to the extent that such harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and proper functioning of the internal market.
It is clear that the distortions of competition resulting from the very significant differences in excise duties applied to diesel by the Member States are a threat to the functioning of the internal market.
I would like to point out that the Commission reacted positively to many amendments contemplated by the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and other Members of Parliament.
For the reasons I have given, the Commission is still convinced of the merits of this proposal.
I would invite Members of Parliament to consider their position on this issue very carefully before the vote on it this week. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I cannot share the Commission’s view that the time is ripe for this proposal, which aims at full harmonisation of excise duties for commercial diesel.
The Commission, citing evidence which can best be described as anecdotal, contends that trucks make unnecessary detours to fill up their sizeable tanks in countries where excise duties, and hence prices at the pump, are lower.
The proposal contains a reference to a 1997 OECD report, which concluded that ‘gasoline tourism’ accounted for 20% of sales in Switzerland, for example.
I wonder whether this really is a problem of such magnitude as to merit such a far-reaching measure, total harmonisation, as proposed by the Commission.
Neither am I at all convinced that it is even desirable to eliminate differences in excise duty between Member States.
I am of the opinion that an element of tax competition is very healthy, especially as the proposed harmonisation drive would result in higher taxes in most Member States.
How, moreover, will this proposal affect the new Member States, some of which at present apply taxes that are significantly lower than those in force in the EU at the moment?
Besides, the candidate countries have already done a lot to adapt to the current minimum tax rate and already the relatively modest increase foreseen in the Directive on energy tax may pose difficulties for some countries.
The Commission justifies this sort of tax treatment from the environmental point of view.
It is very unsatisfactory that the consultation procedure in Parliament will either have to reject the proposal or give the Commission in its negotiations with the Council.
I therefore hope that in future a new constitutional agreement will allow the use of the codecision procedure and qualified majority decision-making in matters of taxation, making it much easier for Parliament to adopt a Commission proposal with certain amendments and return to the issue at second reading. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Europe must take measures relating to car use if we wish to comply with our Kyoto obligations.
People have a tendency to reconsider their choices only when a major change occurs, such as when moving house, transferring to a new place of employment or buying a new car; they may not even realise substantial developments in public services have been made.
There is of course a value in countries’ determining their own taxes because these fund a significant proportion of welfare provision which, as is known, differs from one Member State to another.
There are a number of drawbacks to having different tax rates on diesel fuel in the Member States.
It creates an imbalance in competition between companies.
The gap between different transport costs in different countries is widening, and this makes room for social dumping.
It envisages disentangling the tax rules on fuels, for commercial purposes on the one hand and for private use on the other, and, secondly, duties on diesel fuel in commercial use are to be harmonised, the object being to avoid distortions of competition.
After all, Parliament has always encouraged and endorsed measures aimed at opening up markets and making competition fair.
Firstly, it does not get to grips with the alignment of competition conditions in the transport business, which is so urgently needed.
I am, therefore, rather surprised that, on page 24 of tomorrow’s communication by the Commission to the European Parliament, it is stated in the working programme for 2004 that this directive is already to be transposed, even though we are today discussing the need for the Commission to submit a new proposal.
Only if the new Commission proposal is quick in coming will we be able to achieve the working programme’s objective. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, this directive will not be transposed as quickly as the Commission imagines.
I very much wish the traditional transport sector were as keen on proper Europe-wide regulation as it is on combating distortions of competition.
The way in which road and rail interact demonstrates a policy of isolation rather than one of integration.
In the proposal for a directive, the Commission has also referred to the sharp increase in the number of privately owned diesel cars and regretted the revenue lost to the Member States’ budgets.
In some states, these vehicles make up over 50% of private cars.
European tax policy meant that it was precisely this factor that had a decisive effect on the car market, and environmental concerns have eventually resulted in improved technology in this sector.
I do not think that the underlying thinking is wrong or bad, but simply that the proposal needs to be revised or reworked.
Environmental and energy taxes are the taxes I believe can be decided at EU level.
Thirdly, the big differences between the Member States damage the internal market.
A modified Commission proposal would be good for the environment, strengthen the internal market and improve competition.
I would like to once again stress to my fellow Members that the Commission made an extremely progressive proposal, which can be expected to have an impact in 2010-2012 for the candidate countries.
It begins with an extremely weak central rate, which is the simple indexation of the rate that was in force as early as 1992 and, it is true, this means that some States will have to raise these rates.
I would also like to say&#160;–&#160;and in my view this is one of the reasons why this proposal was rejected by the main political groups&#160;–&#160;that you are obviously stressing the issue of distortion of competition but, if you carefully read the Commission proposal, you will clearly see that it seeks not, for example, to increase the overall tax burden of the States, it involves reorganising the national tax systems.
I urge my fellow MEPs to follow our position and reject the proposal for harmonisation.
Finally, I should like to ask Commissioner Bolkestein what the Commission will do when Parliament rejects the proposal?
I would appreciate a concrete response. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I cannot but endorse the rapporteur’s view, as Europe needs more fiscal competition rather than less of it.
If we do not seize this opportunity, Europe will become an ever-expanding giant, but one enfeebled and dried out.
This would be a pity, as we need a strong Europe. &#160;&#160; –Madam President,the Commission has chosen an inopportune time to put before us a complex and completely superfluous proposal for special rules applicable to the taxation of diesel fuel.
Such a thing is absurd, and I hope that the Commission will listen to our rapporteur and will put before us a complete and properly thought-out package to coordinate, among other things, the tax treatment of fuel and charges for the use of infrastructures. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Commission initiatives on harmonising taxation of vehicles and fuels are broadly justified and are to be welcomed.
This proposal, in this specific wording, does not look as though it will help to achieve significant results in the field of environmental protection and could even lead to pressure to raise prices.
Furthermore, an initiative of this nature can only be accepted by the Council if it is integrated and coordinated with the directive on the taxation of energy products and with the proposal for a framework directive on infrastructure charging.
The political complexity of this issue and the difficulties in managing, in the context of this directive, the administrative aspects of its implementation, specifically those concerning the distinction between fuel used for commercial purposes and fuel for private use, and the consequent return or refund of duties, justify the reserved standpoint of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I should like to read out Article 93 of the Treaty.
The text I have in front of me is in French. ‘The Council shall, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament […] adopt provisions for the harmonisation of legislation concerning turnover taxes, excise duties […] to the extent that such harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market […]’.
Article 93 of the Treaty says that the Council must harmonise excise taxes if they are an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal market.
These figures are all in the area of 400 to 500 to 600 litres per head of population.
That is one of the reasons why the Commission is making this proposal, which is to be considered by the Council after Parliament has given its opinion.
I think that after this debate many Members of Parliament will realise that there is a distortion of competition, that harmonising excise duties on diesel is good for the environment, and that Article 93 lays the obligation – not the choice – on the Council to do it.
Member States are perfectly free to cut their taxes elsewhere if they have to increase the excise taxes on diesel.
As regards the situation of the future Member States, may I stress that during the enlargement negotiations, all the future Member States agreed to apply the current minimum rates on motor fuels as of 1 May 2004, the date on which they will become Member States.
However, if that were the case, then, in accordance with the arrangements between Parliament and the Commission, I shall raise the issue in the College of Commissioners in order to consider carefully the Commission's position under those circumstances.
Lastly, on the amendments, as I have already said, the Commission could accept the creation of an indexed fluctuation band for excise duties applicable to commercial diesel as a second-best solution.
Therefore, the Commission agrees in principle with Amendments 1, 3 to 12 and 14 to 16.
Amendments 2 and 13 are acceptable in part, subject to some rewording when they refer to establishing a connection between this directive and the directive on infrastructure charging.
The Commission does not support Amendment 17 because the proposed rates are not consistent with the energy tax directive.
It goes against the distortion of the internal market as it has to in accordance with Article 93 of the Treaty. &#160;&#160; –Madam President,because Commissioner Bolkestein has used what I have to describe as intellectually dishonest comparisons to pillory my country and has presumed to describe our taxes as far too low, I must, with some regret, put him right on some points.
If you can explain that to me, then perhaps I will change my proposals.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. (1)
