The 'integrated financial control system' - and yes, this is probably not the view of many citizens out there in Europe who are following this speech - means of course that a completely new and much more effective way of controlling the EU's agricultural funds has been introduced.
However, in recent years we have had heard strong criticism regarding a number of points connected with the research policy.
Additionally, we will now find out the names of the participants of the various working groups in the Council and the Commission, something that this House has fought for for many years.
The Commission has actually implemented a considerable number of reforms - it has been shown that 37 very specific points will now be implemented.
In all areas, very clear deadlines have been introduced.
However, there must also be a guarantee that it will not happen again in future.
I would also like to say that we have achieved a result through good dialogue with the Commission.
This means that we can now recommend that approval be granted for the accounts for 2006.
Parliament has, however, done its duty and reduced the cost of the three locations from EUR 203 million in 2002 to EUR 155 million.
As I have just said, giving our assistants a definitive statute, as we have ourselves.
I would like to finish by saying that we have had a prudent year in terms of our budgetary responsibilities, and this is why I am asking you to vote in favour of these accounts for 2006.
I said the same thing here in Parliament two years ago, and you voted to discharge by a large majority.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, you despot!
I reserve the right to take action against you.
rapporteur. - (DE) What I have to present here is an object lesson for all those who are interested in the way political decisions are actually made, a didactic play about the failure of control to function in this Parliament.
When the political science students of the future or citizens who are interested in politics get wind of it, it will be a classic.
The Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mr Bösch, frequently makes very critical remarks about the agencies - but not in committee.
Then when it really matters, when it is the appropriate time, when there is a real opportunity to pinpoint that there has been irresponsible proliferation amongst the agencies, that so much is in a sorry state, then, at the request of the large groups, it is simply deleted.
The part that was cut out reads: 'Decentralisation and devolution were key objectives of the Commission reform process starting in 1999.
Many of you here were perhaps expecting another tall, Nordic young man to be doing this job, namely our colleague Alexander Stubb, but, as some of you will know, Alexander is unable to be here with us today as he has been appointed Finland's new Minister of Foreign Affairs.
However, the fact that here today we are pleased to be able to grant, and propose the granting of discharge to the Commission which has managed these development funds - and this is something we really are pleased about - does not mean that there are no challenges or that there are no areas which we need to work on in the future.
I would like to take this opportunity to briefly mention something about discharge of the independent agencies.
I think it is very strange that Hans-Peter Martin has not chosen to remove his name from all these reports, considering that it is not his opinion which we will be voting on in plenary here today.
If, nevertheless, I am to say something about the work itself, about some of the important opinions that, despite everything, we have in these reports - and which we have obtained thanks to successful and close cooperation between the Socialist Group, our group, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - I would just like to highlight the fact that we grant discharge because we think that there are grounds in the Court of Auditors' statement for approving the management of the finances of these independent agencies.
I would also like to thank Alexander Stubb for his report dealing with the discharge in respect of the use of instruments under the European Development Fund.
The Court of Auditors acknowledged the progress we have made.
Efforts must be made in all those areas.
I propose that members or representatives of the Commission should participate regularly in parliamentary meetings to discuss one of the three areas at the heart of the discharge procedure this year and to report on it.
In June the Commissioners responsible for the Structural Funds or their representatives and the Budgetary Control Committee should consider the preliminary results under the Structural Funds action plan.
The first quarterly report on the Structural Funds action plan will be sent to Parliament in May.
As regards the Commission's 2007 synthesis report and the results of the internal auditors' report for 2007, I will be able to provide information in July or September, and we should continue our debate on discharging the budget, recoveries and costs of checks in conjunction with this.
The Commission will issue a report on these areas in October.
My colleagues Danuta Hübner and Vladimír Špidla have already given Parliament an overview of the action plan to improve the management of funds for structural actions.
As regards the Structural Funds, the Commission has been firm with the Member States responsible for checks on costs, and has where necessary stopped payments and carried out financial corrections.
Member States who have failed to present summaries will be subject to legal action as provided for in Article 226 of the founding Treaty.
Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner has explained to Parliament the principles of European Union funding by way of aid to Iraq, and has tabled proposals on how better checks should be made on specific funding and on how to ensure greater traceability and transparency in funding.
We are very thankful for this because we in the Committee on Development worked very hard on this question.
Thus we have made some progress, but the Commission is still a long way from where we would like it to be.
As regards structural policies, we agree with the Court of Auditors on the need to improve control systems so as to forestall errors in projects carried out in the area of Structural Funds.
As for the European agencies that are being analysed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would just like to thank them briefly for the work they have done and, as we have all seen, we can on the whole give a very positive assessment of their activities.
It is therefore an area of the utmost sensitivity and importance, which should merit special attention from the European Union, namely by means of this analysis conducted by the Dublin Agency, which may in some way help to anticipate the potential crises that we can all envisage on the horizon in any one of the 27 Member States.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Dan Jørgensen.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has thereby acknowledged what the Committee on the Environment adopted unanimously.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a few moments to underline the fact that for the implementation of the budget of the European Agencies for the financial year 2006, we can support what the Court of Auditors says, since the accounts and transactions are legitimate and regular.
With regard to the Commission's management, we welcome the substantial increase in the execution of payments and we hope that this trend will continue in 2007, although we know that this year is going to be the start of a new programming period and our experience shows us that it is more difficult to fulfil this goal and that there is a degree of delay.
We have also criticised some problems with hiring staff at the European Agency for Fundamental Rights, and we regret that the Court of Auditors considers that the situation pointed out in 2005 has still not been resolved regarding a member of staff at the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction who was sent to Brussels on a long-term mission without any clearly defined goal.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe will adopt a constructive attitude in all of this, as it has in the past.
The situation was particularly bad in connection with the Commission's management of the money in the Structural Funds, where nearly EUR 4 billion (almost DKK 30 million) was paid out incorrectly.
Naturally, all new members receive support.
With regard to Parliament, I would like to concentrate on two major problems.
Firstly, the actuarial shortfall is continuing to increase, and secondly, I would also like the list of participants in that voluntary pension fund to finally be published.
The Commission should launch infringement proceedings and penalties against Member States that do not apply, or only partially apply, the regulations on the Structural Funds.
The most important area is that of the Structural Funds, where there is still a significant volume of improper repayments, at 12%.
In particular the Commission should provide greater visibility over projects financed by the European Union for reconstruction in Iraq in 2006; for example, it should list the projects, what they are, the anticipated costs, and the agencies involved.
Specifically, I think that for this type of use of funds, we should look at the idea of using the European Agency for Reconstruction, as Parliament has highlighted in the past.
In other words, the EU finances political parties and also controls their activities.
The current practice, that Parliament undertakes discharge of the Secretary-General of the Council and the other institutions, is not enshrined in the Financial Regulation, nor is it consistent with Article 274 of the Treaty.
I greatly regret that, according to our report, the Court of Auditors should be organised according to the European Central Bank model.
It is perhaps the most important discharge that we have undertaken during this term.
We see the problems, and we still have time to resolve those problems.
I would like to thank the European Commission which, in the end, negotiated a tight follow-up with us, also under pressure from a tough-talking rapporteur from this committee.
Commissioner Kallas has already mentioned how we want to proceed in the coming months.
Today we will be voting on good reports and it is now a matter of giving them good support. (FI) Mr President, first of all I wish to thank the rapporteurs and the Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control for doing an excellent job.
If Parliament really wants to strengthen its role in the discharge process it should revise its practices.
Within many of the Member States, my own included, there has been a similar process, whereby elected representatives have given away their powers.
Pactio Olisipio censenda est! (NL) Mr President, much has already been said today on the subject of Parliament's discharge.
As a result of our joint long, meticulous, analytical and preparatory work we are now in a position to give a decision on the 2006 management of the Community agencies and it is indeed fortunate that with the agreement of the European Court of Auditors we can propose all the agencies for acceptance.
This does not mean that we did not find any faults in the management but that we did not find any faults serious enough to prevent acceptance.
I would also like to point out that the political groupings have already voted in favour, with a wide democratic majority, and I now propose here, in plenary, that we accept the work of the agencies even if the rapporteur is not entirely at one with the report.
I would like to point out that the number of agencies has nearly doubled in the current year.
Perhaps, however, it highlights the need to review the EU management system along with that of the European Commission, especially the system of management and administration.
Ladies and gentlemen, in 2006 the European Union devoted 39% of its budget, EUR 38.9 billion in all, to structural spending.
For years there have been numerous problems with the multi-layer management of the Structural Funds and their shared management.
Having said that, Mr President, I will vote in favour of your 2006 discharge.
As regards the update of the actuarial position (paragraph 71), this exists but will first be presented to the fund's board of directors.
As regards paragraphs 72 and 73, a distinction needs to be made between the wishes of certain members of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the reality ensuing from the Members' Statute.
Claiming that neither current MEPs nor other affiliates can continue to contribute to the fund is simply incompatible with Article 27 of the Statute.
As the shadow rapporteur for the ENVI opinion (Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety) on exemption for 2006, I would like to thank Jutta Haug and the rapporteur for a very solid piece of work.
The work of the European Environment Agency is indispensable in the gathering and collation of information on environmental protection, and the European Medicines Agency plays a significant role in the protection of public health and animal health.
An important point is that all the agencies have redistributed their available annual budget.
The agencies have a necessary role to play, but transparency and effectiveness dictate the need for clarification of their place in the governance of the Union.
One of the effects of the small sample size was that the Court of Auditors was unable to analyse the impact of external action on Montenegro because, out of the 256 actions financed, not one was examined.
Although we have a joint management procedure between the Commission and Member States for 80% of the European budget, I believe new measures should be introduced in order to increase participation in all the budgetary process phases.
If this trend continues, it will indeed lead to governance by agency at the expense, frankly, of the Commission, which is our executive and which is accountable to Parliament, and much more directly than the agencies, even if we do have more means than Mr Hannan admitted to control them.
The measure which ought to link our activities, in my view, tells us two things.
The first is the matter of independent authorities or agencies.
rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Kallas.
That said, by way of conclusion I would like to remind people why these problems arise.
I say that Parliament's accounts should be discharged, because Parliament, if you will allow me to say so, operates very well, and much better than some national parliaments, in a much more transparent way and with staff who work more hours than may be worked in similar parliaments.
We still have a long way to go, but in this political year, we have a positive picture of how we have used the money that our citizens have given us; we have used it well, transparently and coherently.
rapporteur. - (DE) Jutta Haug described my critical comments in the explanatory statement and in the main text as abhorrent and as scandal-mongering.
rapporteur. - (SV) I would like to take this opportunity to provide a little constructive criticism to the Commission and to the decentralised agencies, as I still think that the rapporteur, Hans-Peter Martin, has not managed to do so.
I also call you a despotic President because you arbitrarily singled out certain Members in the so-called incidents on 12 December, not those who were members of the party you still belonged to at the time, but apparently those who caught your eye.
Furthermore, I call you a despotic president because, on the basis of this additional enabling interpretation, and I am not the only one who believes this is untenable, procedures can in fact take place here that truly have no place in a proper Parliament, at least not the way I learned about it in school.
These do not exist and therefore I maintain that indeed, in my opinion, you - as the political representative of 14% of Austrian voters - are, unfortunately, a despotic president who is inflicting unnecessary damage on this Parliament and the important underlying idea of Europe.
On my own behalf, I would say that I try to be just and objective - and that I achieve that - in my dealings with all Members of Parliament.
