Commemorating 11 July as a day of remembrance for the victims of the massacre in Srebrenica (debate) The next item is the declaration of the Council and the Commission on commemorating 11 July as a day of remembrance for the victims of the massacre in Srebrenica.
The massacre of more than 8 000 Bosniaks in and around Srebrenica marks one of the darkest historical moments of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the former Yugoslavia and also of Europe as a whole.
The Council, recalling the UN Security Council resolutions 1503 and 1534, underlined that full and unrestricted cooperation with the ICTY remain an essential requirement for continuing progress towards the EU.
Therefore, the Council remains determined that the perpetrators of crimes in Srebrenica and in Bosnia and Herzegovina in general, as well as elsewhere in the region of the Western Balkans, must be brought to justice.
After 13 years it is time to bring the shameful Srebrenica episode to a closure.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, in July 1995, close to 8 000 men and boys were murdered and disappeared in Srebrenica.
I therefore join you today in supporting this initiative to recognise 11 July as the day of the commemoration of the Srebrenica genocide.
Recognition of what happened in July 1995 is fundamental to reconciliation within Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the regional process.
Proclaiming 11 July as the European commemorative day for the victims of Srebrenica should therefore be a further step towards reconciliation within Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region.
Therefore, we must insist that not only the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague, but also the local war-crimes tribunals in Bosnia-Herzegovina, be able to do their jobs properly.
We are all aware of the carnage that occurred in Srebrenica in 1995.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SL) Our European Union was born out of the experience of the Second World War.
Those responsible for the genocide in Srebrenica must be brought before the Hague Tribunal, they must stand trial and be sent to prison, and we must work together to build and make possible a European future for Srebrenica, for the local population and for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The massacre in Srebrenica must never be forgotten, which is why we welcome and support the initiative to proclaim 11 July the commemorative day for the victims of this genocide.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, the town of Srebrenica is notorious the world over on account of the massacre of 8 000 Muslim men in 1995.
Following my visit to Srebrenica in March 2007, I asked the European Commission to contribute to sustainable income and employment through projects promoting tourism, as a result of which Srebrenica would have more to offer than its history and the major memorial site.
Srebrenica, July 1995.
I cannot begin to tell you how ashamed and disheartened I felt about the international concept of a safe haven, certainly as a Dutch citizen. 'Kom vanavond met verhalen, hoe de oorlog is verdwenen, en herhaal ze honderd malen, alle malen zal ik wenen.' [Come this evening with stories, how the war has disappeared, and repeat them a hundred times, I will cry each time.] From now on, the words of this famous poet from my country's culture of remembrance, the Second World War, will also accompany 11 July, when we commemorate the beloved victims of Srebrenica and Potocari. (BG) Thank you, Mr President.
This evening we have gathered to recall a terrible crime, appropriately called genocide, which actually represents a huge human tragedy in our most recent history.
It mentions the names of those who have become world famous: Ratko Mladić, Radovan Karadžić, Krstić and others.
I hope that we can deliver something lasting and positive to them for the future. - (SK) I support the recognition of 11 July as the commemoration day for the Srebrenica genocide, when the international community failed to intervene in the conflict and protect the civilian population.
In the course of several days of carnage following the fall of Srebrenica, more than 8 000 men and boys lost their lives.
This supremely symbolic act of proposing this European day of remembrance, on 11 July, is part of this process and pursues several objectives.
It is focused on the living and on a better future for them. (RO) The massacre at Srebrenica in July 1995, along with all the atrocities committed during the war which accompanied the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, are a black page in Europe's history.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, let me conclude today's debate on Srebrenica.
First of all, I want to assure you that the Council remains determined that the perpetrators of crimes in Srebrenica, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as elsewhere in the region of the Western Balkans, must be brought to justice.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, Mrs Ibrisagic, I was one of those people watching on television when these terrible things happened.
The vote on the resolution will take place tomorrow (Thursday 15 January 2009).
