The liberalisation of air transport has led to a deterioration in the quality of the services provided and to attacks on the rights of the workers in this key sector.
The strengthening of common air security rules is a key objective of transport policy.
Our obligation is therefore to strike a balance between these two factors of air transport security and quality.
This omission is all the more serious in view of the recommendation made by Parliament in its resolution of May 2006 on natural disasters, which, among other points, called on the Commission to submit a strategy on drought on which to base a European drought risk prevention and management policy, including strategies for minimising impact.
Accordingly, although we voted in favour of this report, we are very disappointed by this omission and stress the need for a strategy on drought.
This is a practical response to the ever more frequent and dramatic natural disasters occurring in our countries: my fellow Belgians will recall the floods of December 2002, and how could we not mention, in this House, the floods that occurred in central and eastern Europe during the summers of 2002 and 2005?
I have a suggestion to make: for the sake of effectiveness, the European centre should be coordinated with the meteorological and hydrological services of the 27 Member States.
In order to prevent Europe from flooding too often, there is an urgent need, in my view, for deforestation, agricultural crops and building permits in flood risk areas to be taken into account in the risk management plans, as requested by the Seeber report. (SK) We have just voted on a report in which I called for the adoption of a text and amendments which would, both now and in the future, exclude the possibility of all EU Member States being forced to accept the use of human embryos for research and potentially for treatment, and the creation of human-animal hybrids which would be traded for their tissues, and also interventions in the human germline.
As a human being, a father and a doctor, I shall always press for the right of nations not to apply the above-mentioned practices.
On 23 April the European Commission assured us in Parliament that the commercialisation of the human body is out of the question, because it is covered by European legislation.
Explanation of vote on behalf of Karin Riis-Jørgensen, Anne E.
Jensen and Niels Busk, Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
Doctors and researchers must be able to operate within a framework of legal certainty - one which recognises their work on a European basis and guarantees that treatments will be made available to all patients in need of them.
in writing. - (FR) I endorsed all of the amendments in favour of advanced therapies and, in particular, of cell therapy products.
Mr President, I have voted in favour of what, for the sake of convenience, I will refer to as the package of the trialogue.
I approve the report, even though not all the Committee on Legal Affairs' amendments will get through, and not all them are to be seen in a favourable light.
I am opposed to the exploitation of the human body, or of human body parts, for commercial gain.
It was formerly the case that interference in human genetic identity was not supported in Europe and that the commercialisation of the human body and its parts was ipso facto outlawed.
I am opposed to the idea that for the first time in its history the Union will intervene in the criminal law of the Member States.
I do not agree that the Union should enforce criminal liability against legal entities in countries, like the Czech Republic, that do not have this in their law.
in writing. (SV) We voted in favour of Amendments 43 and 44 and against the report in the final vote as we believe that it has not been adequately shown that there are legal grounds under the first pillar for common criminal law provisions in the field of intellectual property law.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my fellow Member, Mr Zingaretti, on the amended proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights.
in writing. - (IT) As radical members of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe in this Parliament, we voted together with our group against the Zingaretti report, because we believe that caution and balance are needed when applying criminal provisions for the first time to copyright infringements, but that no room was found for them in the amendments adopted.
We completely oppose the legal basis used by the Commission to present this proposal on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights and are very disappointed that our proposal for a rejection was not adopted.
Criminal law falls exclusively to the Member States.
The European Commission and the European Parliament are blatantly attempting to annul the principle of unanimity of Member States in order to adopt penal measures on EU level, abolishing one of the basic principles of national sovereignty of its Member States.
With the intentional vagueness in the definitions of infringement 'offences' of intellectual property rights, the imposition of harsh penalties (minimum imprisonment of four years and a fine of EUR 300 000 minimum) and the unprecedented privatisation of criminal proceedings through the provision for the participation of large corporations in judicial and police inquiries with regards to the violation of their rights, there is a clear attempt of the monopolies to exert rigorous control οn all sectors of intellectual creativity.
I refuse to back the Zingaretti report, though, and for a variety of reasons.
The disasters of the Erika in 1999 and the Prestige in 2002 tragically demonstrated the extent to which European policy and the strategies of the Member States in the event of a shipwreck have fallen short of what is required.
I voted for this report to give protection in the case of accidents at sea.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague and friend, Mrs Vlasto, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on port State control.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this text.
Companies have a tendency to compromise, even when they are not accountable, so as to avoid a long judicial procedure.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report on a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources.
in writing. (SV) We have today voted against this report.
The triumph of humanity is that we have developed ideas and technology that have increased productivity and reduced world poverty by two thirds in 50 years.
in writing. (SV) I have today chosen to support Amendment 3 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to Mrs Liotard's report on the sustainable use of natural resources.
The United States administration is responsible for serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Afghanistan, Iraq and Guantánamo and for illegal detentions and renditions in the case of the CIA flights.
On a broader level, I wish to express my agreement with the speech by the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in Parliament, in which he advocated the creation of a large transatlantic market by 2015 and called on parliaments on both sides of the Atlantic to become more involved in preparing the legislative groundwork for this to materialise.
However, I strongly object to what has become a regular and very dangerous sleight of hand in EU policy documents - the displacement of our national governments by the EU, in this instance in its efforts to become the single 'partner' of the US in the transatlantic relationship.
As I see no justification for European Parliament offices in other countries, I certainly oppose the costly proposal, in paragraph 40, of a permanent European Parliament official post in Washington DC. (DE) Mr President, I should like to make a few brief comments on the progress report on Croatia.
Instead of wasting our time on Turkey, which is neither able nor willing to comply with the EU's requirements, yet nevertheless is impertinent enough to demand that it be given a date for its accession, I do believe that all our energies should be concentrated on bringing the negotiations with Croatia to a prompt conclusion. - (PL) Mr President, we have just adopted a highly important report on the steps taken by Croatia to join the 27 EU Member States.
There should be no doubt in anyone's mind that Croatia belongs to our European homeland and that it should soon become a full member of the Community.
While some countries react negatively to further enlargement to include Turkey or Ukraine, and despite the need to reform the EU institutions so that they can function smoothly, the process of integration that started 50 years ago cannot be halted.
Enlargement cannot happen, however, until the candidate countries in fact fulfil all the membership requirements imposed.
Paragraph 7 points out, moreover, that there is 'flagging public support for EU accession in Croatia'.
We have consequently voted against this report.
in writing. (PL) I am voting in favour of the report by Hannes Swoboda on Croatia's progress in 2006.
British Conservatives supported the Swoboda report but voted against amendments relating to Recital G.
I shall therefore vote in favour of these reports.
