Treaty of Lisbon (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is a report in which our committee has dwelt not so much on the history of how we got here, but on the simple comparison of whether this new Treaty improves the European Union compared to the current Treaties, whether the Treaties as amended by the Treaty of Lisbon make the European Union more effective, more democratic and better for its citizens.
The new Treaty also improves the powers of the European Parliament in other respects.
Parliament will have the right to block Commission implementing measures where we disagree with them.
This Treaty, if nothing else, is a massive increase in democracy in the European Union.
The extension of qualified majority voting, the rationalisation of the size of the Commission, the merging together of the external representation posts into a single High Representative, the longer-term presidency of the European Council and other measures should make our machinery more capable of acting effectively and, therefore, our Union more capable of delivering in those policy areas where we want it to deliver.
Even in those countries that had referendums, in total 26.6 million people voted in favour of it and 23 million against.
I commend it to the House. (Applause) rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, I would also like to join you in congratulating Richard Corbett.
Mr President, three years ago Richard Corbett and I presented the Constitutional Treaty to this House, and we are now European Parliament rapporteurs on the Lisbon Treaty.
We had to leave many of our ambitions by the wayside, which I regret, but I also think that the essential elements of the Constitutional Treaty are in the Lisbon Treaty.
Mr President, this is the only thing that should motivate the European Parliament.
We saw this yesterday, with the situation in Kosovo.
Europe cannot adopt a head-in-the-sand policy.
Supporting the Lisbon Treaty means doing things together, following the same path.
It is true that we have abandoned some things, but it is also true that, in the future, if we need to recover them, the European Parliament will be in the vanguard. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
On behalf of the Presidency I would like to welcome this opportunity to debate the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would first like to thank the European Parliament for its work and, most of all, for the report prepared by Richard Corbett and Íñigo Méndez de Vigo.
Firstly, it will ensure that all institutions that sustain or link the 27 Member States operate more successfully.
Our common aim is to enforce the Lisbon Treaty from 1 January 2009.
The Presidency is aware that the ratification procedures fall within the exclusive and sovereign competence of the Member States.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all can I say welcome to this report and congratulate both rapporteurs for their work in bringing it to plenary.
The Commission, of course, fully shares the view that the Treaty of Lisbon is a very positive step for the future of the Union.
In politics it is important to do the right things, because that is what gives us democratic legitimacy.
But, at the same time, we must also look at the other side of the coin, how we do things and how the Treaty will change the way we do things; how we can become more effective in taking decisions and furthering the political agenda and the priorities of this European Union.
We already have, through these, very positive experience in engaging with national parliaments, in anchoring the policies of the European Union, as well as some elements of participatory democracy for the direct participation of citizens.
I am willing to do all I can to ensure that Europeans can use this new democratic tool as soon as possible after the Treaty enters into force.
This is highly necessary, as it gives the European Parliament full democratic control over the other half of the EU's development activities too, at last - which is both necessary and good.
Without constant control by the European Parliament, however, poverty reduction will not be able to take centre stage in EU foreign policy, still less without the appointment of a separate European Commissioner for Development in future.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - (ES) Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the co-rapporteurs on the magnificent work they have done and to thank them because, perhaps as an exception to what usually happens in this House, they have succeeded in including the principal suggestion made by the Committee on International Trade with regard to the drawing up of the Lisbon Treaty.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (EL) Mr President, I have had the honour of being the rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets on the changes being brought about in the budget sector.
I believe that this new political agenda is what the EU needs today.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (SK) The new European Treaty, although imperfect in some aspects, represents an important instrument for further and deeper integration of the Member States, as well as for more effective and flexible functioning of structures and institutions both between the individual Member States of the European Union and between the EU and the outside world.
At the same time the Treaty opens the door for further enlargement of the Union to include new Member States, so that many people's dreams of a common European home can come true.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights, which has become a legal component of the Treaty, has of course its own great significance.
However, because it is not very explicit, it can give rise to some questions about natural human rights.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs expresses its support for the report by our fellow Members Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo.
We welcome in particular the fact that the report highlights - this is obvious but it is good to mention it - that it is in the area of freedom, security and justice that the Treaty of Lisbon brings in the most changes, with, in particular, the pillars being discontinued and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation being brought under the 'Community' method.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, like everyone else, I would first like to offer our thanks and congratulations to our fellow members Íñigo Méndez de Vigo and Richard Corbett for the report on the Treaty of Lisbon and particularly for the excellent work they have done.
Our debate comes at a time when five Member States have already ratified this Treaty and Poland has announced that it is preparing to start its ratification process.
The Treaty of Lisbon signals the return to politics in Europe.
Democracy is strengthened by extending the powers of the European Parliament, the only institution elected by direct universal suffrage.
The President of the Commission will be elected by the European Parliament.
The role of the national parliaments will be enhanced on matters of subsidiarity.
This is something our group is very keen on.
The expansion of qualified majority voting in the Council will reduce the risk of institutional deadlock and make it possible to implement necessary common policies.
Where it is competent, the EU will make its voice heard and make the decisions required for energy policy, foreign policy, judicial and police cooperation and environmental policy.
Of course, many of us - as the rapporteurs point out - deplore the fact that the constitutional approach has had to abandon any mention of the symbols of Europe.
The big challenge now is the ratification of the Treaty.
On behalf of PPE-DE members, I call upon the Member States to follow the lead of Hungary, Slovenia, Romania, Malta and France, and to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon promptly, so it can enter into force by 2009.
One thing is certain: the only chance that the states that ruled half the world 100 years ago - France and Great Britain - still have of being able to secure their influence in the world today and of perhaps still being able to play a part in 25, 50 and 100 years' time, is not that we put up attractive flags, but that we ask the question: how do I guarantee, in a smaller world with limited influence - because there are far more players, such as China, India and the Latin American continent, for instance - how do I guarantee as a responsible politician in this global village that my people, my country, are able to play their part in global democracy, welfare and social stability?
When we talk about this Treaty, I would very much like to talk again about why we never actually discuss the fact that the Industry and Development Ministers of China and India have been meeting over the past year to conclude a cooperation agreement.
François Mitterrand was right when he said in this House that nationalism ultimately always meant one thing: war.
Liberal Democrats regret that, and look forward to the time when the UK will find a more comfortable place within the stronger and more united democratic and efficient Union promised by this great Treaty. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, the leaders of the European Union signed the Reform Treaty on the European Union last December.
A more effective Union means a stronger economy for Europe and for Ireland.
The Irish people have very good reasons for voting in favour of this Treaty.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken eight years, two Conventions, three intergovernmental conferences and two draft treaties to achieve the result that we are evaluating today.
Allow me at this point, and after this lengthy period, to offer my personal thanks for the opportunity to represent this House in both conventions and to be present both for the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Constitution, together with Andrew Duff, as EP rapporteur.
If we want to succeed in reviving this treaty, political unity will need to cease being a project of elites and state chancelleries and become a res publica.
Henry Kissinger describes the disappearance of the nation-state in Europe as the foremost challenge of our time.
Their future is now tied to the European Union, and the EU has not yet achieved a vision and loyalty comparable to the nation-state.
Nor should this awareness desert us in view of the genuine achievements of this Treaty.
Having not succeeded in making the citizens sovereigns of the European Union, it is this Parliament's first task in future to comply with the spirit of this Constitution, to turn the Union into a union of citizens, rather than states, and to find the strength to make a res publica out of European integration and demonstrate Europe's strength by creating new identities together with the citizens. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, the Lisbon Treaty will be subjected to the democratic scrutiny of the people in Ireland alone.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, what the European Parliament is engaged in here today, with this debate and subsequent vote, is nothing less than a massive exercise in deceit.
It is virtually identical in every regard and it is a constitutional treaty, because it gives the European Union full legal personality, and, worse still, gives it the ability to amend itself in the future without having to refer to any more intergovernmental conferences.
Because, in their arrogance, the EU political elite believed that the people would be conned by their propaganda about the Constitution.
Such arrogance, such tyranny: fitting, of course, because this Constitution is all about transferring more and more national powers to Brussels despots - those who are, indeed, too chicken for a referendum. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all point out that it is unacceptable for anyone in this House to proclaim himself or herself to be the sole spokesperson of the people and to speak of everybody else as representing only the opinion of the political elite.
I am particularly pleased that the document also expressly prohibits discrimination against individuals belonging to minorities.
In the European Union we talk a great deal about values and about diversity, but European protection of minorities has been on a shaky footing up to now.
The question here, of course, is: what is the Reform Treaty - this Treaty on which both rapporteurs have drawn up a very good report - giving back?
The answer is clear: the Reform Treaty strengthens the European Union without doing away with democracy.
Together, for example, with the energy issues and with the additional energy competence that the Reform Treaty gives the European Union, we could in the end be pursuing a legally competent foreign energy policy bringing us into a better starting position with regard to Russia and other major energy powers.
Together with the foreign trade competence we can also better represent the interests of our employees and our economy in international trade relations.
It is the Reform Treaty's great merit - I, too, therefore clearly support the work of the rapporteurs - to ensure that the European Union becomes more capable of action and more democratic at the same time. (PL) Mr President, the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty by the countries of the European Union will be a major event in the history of Europe and in the history of the European Union.
I will venture to say, Mr President, that I hope that in future all these four major responsibilities within the European Union will originate from election.
This move would strengthen the European Union. (PL) Mr President, the process of European integration is not something bad in itself; quite the contrary, in fact.
If it were to be conducted honestly, on principles of solidarity and a genuine expansion of democracy, it could be accepted universally.
My party favoured a referendum on the Constitution.
This Treaty may be different in legal status, but in substance it is the same.
We are not afraid of a public debate on Europe.
In particular, it directs the European Union to become essentially more democratic and closer to its citizens.
The Treaty of Lisbon offers the opportunity to extend the Economic and Monetary Union by adding a social union.
The difference is in presentation only.
Sarkozy's mini-treaty will now be around 3 000 pages instead of the 560 pages in the rejected Constitution.
The majority has the right to endorse the Treaty, but you have no right to refuse normal parliamentary scrutiny of this Lisbon Treaty.
I have asked more than 700 serious questions on the interpretation of the different articles.
You approve a reduction in parliamentary democracy instead of insisting on this Parliament's right to represent our voters, scrutinise on behalf of our voters and question the executive on behalf of the half a million citizens we represent. (DE) Mr President, again and again we are told that this Treaty of Lisbon will make Europe functional.
Most likely, if Ireland votes against this Treaty, ways and means will also be found to discount that vote.
Hungary was the first country to ratify the Reform Treaty.
It is significant that in the exceptionally fragmented and often contradictory Hungarian political arena a sweeping majority voted in favour of ratification.
Lisbon provides them with a new opportunity and an instrument to combat the menace of nationalism.
Thank you, Mr President. (FI) Mr President, it is important to have increasing levels of cooperation at European level.
There will be 40 new fields of policy activity.
It remains intergovernmental in the nature of course, but we want the EU to be able to speak with one united voice; and this will definitely require a real change of attitude on the part of the Member States.
This means that it is a classic political compromise, and as such it ought also to be ratified in all EU Member States.
As a whole, too, Europe's institutions must demonstrate to European citizens that in economically sensitive areas they are able to show genuine European solidarity, so that we do not end up with a new energy solidarity stipulation, just like the introduction of the free market principle in European territory with the Services Directive.
Thank you. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, the Hungarian Parliament ratified the Treaty of Lisbon before it had officially been sent it.
As legislators, this is not what our constituents have sent us to Strasbourg to do.
Our citizens are intelligent, thoughtful and well capable of playing their democratic role in their own governance.
And what we are doing here today, and throughout this Lisbon process, is a betrayal of our citizens, the very citizens whose cooperation and hard work we will need to further the European project.
Like the last Treaty, this one gives the EU a permanent right to seize more powers without any future agreements - an outrageous power grab.
What we are doing here in the European Union is unique, as we no longer resolve the different interests of our peoples and among our peoples, which will always be present, with tanks and guns, as used to happen, but with debates and democratic voting.
It has been the good fortune of Western Europe for 60 years, and since European reunification in 1990, large areas of Europe have shared in this good fortune.
I am sure that presidents such as Robert Schuman and Paul-Henri Spaak, or Konrad Adenauer would have signed the Lisbon Treaty, above all because the line that was defined based on the Spinelli Treaty, which in the mid-1980s inspired the line that took shape in the Constitution, has now resulted in the Lisbon Treaty, in an open constitutional process for the European Union.
In this respect, I think that the report defends and sets out the progress that has been made.
There is a lesson we need to learn: what we decide together cannot be made subject to, cannot be held hostage by, what is decided by a small minority.
This means that we now need to get to work on a large number of political decisions that need to be adopted even before the next elections, because the reality is that this Treaty should enter into force on 1 January 2009.
From the point of view of democracy, codecision, appointments and adapting the European Parliament, there is a great deal still to be done. (Applause) Mr President, as one of only 13 Members of this House who will have the opportunity to vote on a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon, I am satisfied to give it my support.
What surprises me about the debate in this House at times - even though I suppose I should not be surprised - is that those who shout longest and loudest about the sovereignty of Member States are the very ones to attempt to undermine that sovereignty by lecturing and hectoring Member States about the need to hold a referendum, when national legislation and, therefore, sovereignty and subsidiarity, dictate otherwise.
The EU does not need a permanent discussion of institutions; it needs political will and the implementation of common and useful aims. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to see that the European Parliament is actively monitoring and taking the initiative in the process of ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
The Lisbon Treaty that has followed on from it represents a political compromise and it is a balanced and good document.
In addition to other important reforms, this document also broadens the scope of codecision: for us in the European Parliament that means that this House will be more powerful than ever before, since it was first established.
At the same time the document offers more flexibility for the European Union, which currently consists of 27 Member States.
The debates in this House, Mr President, highlight the difference in terms of how the European Council and the European Parliament are perceived.
What happened in 2005 was unfortunate.
What we have done since is crisis management.
Most of all, it brings to a close the reunification of the continent, which began on 9 November 1989.
I am already looking forward to finding out who will be the President of Europe, because the whole world will be watching to see who is chosen, and the person will create the institution.
There will already be a rendez-vous in June 2014 - five years on.
Indeed, this is a very good report.
It is our duty, that of each Member of the European Parliament, to go to our countries and explain to the citizens we represent here the advantages of the Lisbon Treaty for the future of the European construction. (PL) Mr President, after two years of discussion on the controversial treaty that was rejected in France and Holland, we have succeeded in reaching a compromise and accepting a text that is supposed to save the peoples of Europe.
The rapporteurs actually acknowledge this in paragraph 9 of the document tabled before Parliament.
The first piece of good news is as follows: Poland is ratifying the Lisbon Treaty.
Yesterday the Polish Government passed a draft law on its ratification, and on 27 February the Polish Sejm and Senate will be considering it.
I would like to emphasise that the Treaty has the support of the vast majority in Parliament.
In my country, opinion polls show that some 75% of the British people want a referendum and two thirds of them would vote 'no'.
This will not only weaken the capacity of the European Union to inspire citizens but also the capacity of each Member State to rehabilitate their national myths.
The rapporteurs have underlined very clearly that the Treaty of Lisbon is an important qualitative step forward - one could even say a quantum leap - for Europe.
The TEU also represented a modest preliminary step towards political union.
The new Treaty is not the remedy for all the European Union's ills, but it represents added value for democracy.
The powers of the European Parliament are enhanced, as are the powers of the national parliaments, but participatory democracy is also enhanced - specifically by means of the citizens' initiative which enables one million citizens to ask the Commission to launch a legislative initiative in a specific field; in addition the Charter of Fundamental Rights is now legally binding.
There is now an urgent need for each of the 27 Member States which signed the Treaty of Lisbon on 13 December 2007 to proceed to ratify the Treaty.
That is a decisive stage in our achieving a Europe which is more efficient in decision-making, closer to citizens, better able to respond to the challenges of globalisation and more effective in external relations.
Notwithstanding ultranationalist opinions and euroscepticism, Europe cannot stop - and it is not going to stop. (EL) As shadow draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade and as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I should like to say by way of introduction that the Lisbon Treaty signals the transition from a constitutional 'elitism' to the reform of the European unification project.
The parliamentary system is also emerging from the recent European compromise strengthened, with the roles of both the European Parliament and the national parliaments having been reinforced.
At this time of global instability, the European Union is more important than ever for small Member States like Ireland.
The weapons of those who pedal fear is the big lie, eloquently demonstrated here today by Ms McDonald and Ms Sinnott.
Mr President, Ireland has chosen to ratify the Lisbon Treaty by referendum because, on balance, this was deemed necessary under the terms of our written Constitution, but I fully respect the decision of all other Member States in their choice of ratification process.
It merely amends existing Treaties - on the European Union, and establishing the European Communities - Treaties which, in their own right, have been ratified fully.
More Europe means more of that to which Europe brings added value to our citizens because, by clearly defining the limits of the Union's competences, the Reform Treaty or the Lisbon Treaty, gives both the European Union and national parliaments clear definition as to where their competences belong, and confers, incidentally, more subsidiarity on Member States, a point often lost.
The Reform Treaty allows for greater continuity in EU decision-making, notably in the foreign policy domain, by creating the new post of President of the European Council, who will be appointed for a two-and-a-half-year term, renewable on one occasion.
There would, however, be new legal bases for patents, tourism, sports, space and administrative cooperation, a reinforced legal basis on energy policy and, most importantly, an explicit new reference to fighting climate change with existing legal bases on environmental policy.
Colleagues, while your goodwill and support is most welcome, a gentle word of warning - please do not be tempted, in your eagerness for a positive outcome of our referendum, to tell the Irish electorate how to vote.
We are entering a new phase in which - I hope - the way can also be reopened towards a Constitution for Europe.
The future is therefore, first and foremost, in the hands of a great alliance between Parliament and European citizens in the fullness of their rights and duties.
Perhaps the first test of this alliance is the choice for the new post of President of the EU. (PL) Mr President, allow me, if you would, to begin by congratulating the authors of this report, since through their work a text has come about that is not just a political document, but an astute guide to the new realities of the Treaty.
Much has changed, however, since the recent elections.
The Lisbon Treaty is the result of a compromise between dreams of a European federation and fears that are currently prevalent not only among citizens of the new states, but also in countries that are the founders of our Community.
It is important for us to be able to discern them in time, and for the European Union to retain the capacity to adapt to new challenges. (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Lisbon and Rome are departure points for a humanity without borders.
It is true that the European Constitution, with its potential for unity and cohesion, has been delayed but a post-national Europe is emerging.
Babel will undoubtedly build its tower. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you have followed the debate this morning, you will have noticed that this Treaty is accompanied by great expectations.
Allow me to congratulate those five Member States that have already ratified the Lisbon Treaty.
I am convinced that the act of ratification of the Lisbon Treaty faces no danger in Slovakia either.
It has already been mentioned in this Chamber that we need to explain to people - to the citizens of Europe - in what ways this document provides more than national constitutions, to explain the added value of this Reform Treaty.
Within this community of interests, we must spell out to the citizens of Europe the ways in which the Charter of Fundamental Rights provides added value in the sphere of social rights.
The fact is that a single change requires the unanimous agreement of all the prime ministers and national parliaments of all the Member States, and important changes that confer fresh competences upon us in the EU require the procedure of a convention, an intergovernmental conference and formal ratification in all Member States. (DA) Mr President, the Treaty of Lisbon is, as everyone knows, the Constitution Treaty without the flags and music.
It is important that the Lisbon Treaty focuses on the role of citizens and the responsibility of institutions.
Secondly, I would like to mention the changes that the Lisbon Treaty proposes in the field of the European Union's foreign policy.
Consequently, the essential element of the report is the call for ratification by all the 27 Member States.
I am sure that the citizens of the European Union, if well informed, will give the Treaty their unqualified support.
Well, I have missed a little bit of the debate, but I did not hear anybody comment on Article 49, which states that, if Lisbon is ratified, any Member State can decide to withdraw from the Union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements.
That means that all of those who believe that they should not be in Europe can advise their citizens to withdraw from the Union after we ratify the Lisbon Treaty.
Mr President, a 'yes' for the Lisbon Treaty is a 'yes' for the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights was initially drawn up to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights within the EU, in the light of changes in society, social progress and scientific and technological developments, by making those rights more visible in the form of a charter.
Those rights apply to the EU institutions and bodies and the Member States only when they are implementing EU law.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to raise a moral problem by referring back exclusively to statements by people in favour of the ratification of the Treaty, who told us that it is exactly the same as the Constitution.
Such is the case with the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, Mr Juncker.
Unfortunately, not all of them have come to terms with the disappointment, which is why we find paragraph 6 of this report expressing regret over the changes made in the new Treaty in contrast to the draft European Constitution.
After a difficult journey a consensus was reached among the 27 Member States.
In my opinion, if the European Parliament votes in favour of paragraph 6 of the report, it will be expressing disrespect to the complex consensus obtained by the 27 Member States, and that could only be harmful to the whole matter.
There may be clustering in top regions in Europe, but at the same time we are advocating opportunities for employment and economic development throughout the Union.
Mr President, if the European Union were a car, this Treaty would be about tuning that vehicle.
It is very important that we have new structures, especially in the field of foreign and security policy, and I agree with those people who have stressed the importance of good common foreign and security policy, but it is not enough just to have good structures in place.
If we cannot coordinate our action, and if we cannot really work together and produce common messages to give to a Kissinger or a Rice, then those messages are worth nothing.
As an MEP representing one of the new Member States, I would also like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the Community solidarity being shown towards us.
Winston Churchill used the phrase 'terminological inexactitudes'.
President-in-Office of the Council. - It was a great pleasure for me to be present at this extremely interesting and dynamic debate.
The first category concerns the preparatory activities which have to be completed in order for the Lisbon Treaty, if and when enforced, to be implemented fully.
These activities are numerous.
We therefore have to be aware that, although the preparatory activities have to be completed, the fact remains that the last word in the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty rests with the Member States, that is to say with the national parliaments and, in one case, with the voters.
All the Member States of the European Union are representative parliamentary democracies and, after all, this honourable assembly, the European Parliament, is a powerful symbol of representative democracy.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, this has indeed been a lively and interesting debate, on which I would like to make three remarks.
I expect that preparations are going on in all the institutions, in that we are looking at what will be required of our respective institutions - in the case of the Commission coming forward with specific legislative proposals - and what this will take in terms of interinstitutional cooperation and practical preparations.
But I expect that several Member States will also carry out specific opinion polls to check on public opinion in the respective Member States.
The Commission will monitor these issues in general, through the Eurobarometer.
Let me also say that I hope we can engage young people and women in this debate, because in talking about democracy and representative democracy, we also want to see more women in the debate, hopefully also as leaders of our institutions and of the European Union in the future.
If women do not see that they are represented, they will hesitate before they give their support to our different projects and decisions.
rapporteur. - Mr President, this debate has shown that, in this Parliament, the elected representatives of the peoples of our 27 countries approve this Treaty by a very large majority.
Every single party that is in government in our Member States and almost every single one of the principal opposition parties in every Member State - except the British Conservatives, of course - support this Treaty.
It is, though, curious to see this new political alliance being forged by Sinn Féin and the British Conservative Party in opposing this Treaty.
But, as I pointed out yesterday, several Member States have published a consolidated version of the Treaty.
They are chicken, because they chickened out of the debate here, as they are afraid of the verdict of this democratic debate, a verdict which is overwhelmingly positive about this Treaty: that it is a good Treaty that will improve and democratise our Union. (Applause) rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, today reference has been made to European integration from a historical point of view.
I am going to mention one in particular: when it is said that this Lisbon Treaty incorporates new doses of qualified majority, that is true, but what is not said is that the Lisbon Treaty means greater participation by the European Parliament.
However, this referendum is about the Lisbon Treaty.
in writing. - (PT) Just when the ratification process of the Treaty of Lisbon is under way, the European Parliament is once more overstepping its powers, attempting to influence public opinion with a report expressing its approval of that Treaty and pressing all EU Member States to ratify the Treaty in time for it to come into force on 1 January 2009.
Member States have competence in that sphere: initially via the Intergovernmental Conference and thereafter via ratification by each Member State, in accordance with each country's fundamental legislation.
in writing. - (ET) The most crucial topic for the European Union is the Lisbon Treaty because the future of Europe is in the balance, as is the way in which it will cope in a world which is changing year on year more quickly than we are.
