The answer is 'no', and this is why we have proposed the mandatory reduction by 2012.
We have proposed the mandatory limit on carbon dioxide emissions of 120 g by 2012, as provided in the strategy for carbon dioxide and cars.
Unfortunately, this objective was not realised: in 2006 emissions were at 160 g, whereas in 2007 they were at 159 g, according to the latest figures.
We are positive regarding whether industry will be able to achieve the target of 120 g by 2012.
But according to his colleague Mariann Fischer Boel, the impact of biofuel policy on food prices is not so serious.
Member of the Commission. - The European Union has agreed on a 10% target for renewable fuels within the transport sector, and this 10% is by 2020.
I think we have to say that such a long lead time makes it unlikely that this can have had an impact on the price level that we see today.
In the Commission proposal put on the table on 23 January this year for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the Commission proposed that it will monitor, amongst other things, the commodity price changes associated with the use of biomass for energy and any associated positive and negative impacts on food security.
The general principles of the European Union's policy towards third countries concerning the death penalty, adopted in 1998 and reviewed in 2008, set out the criteria for issuing demarches and define the standards that should be used.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner categorically expressed her opposition to the death penalty, whether actually used in practice or set out in legislation, in a public declaration on 10 October 2007, on the occasion of the World Day Against The Death Penalty, and on other subsequent occasions.
Needless to say, in the case of the bomb attack on the UN headquarters on 19 August 2003, such a moratorium would have made it possible to carry out a detailed cross-examination of all persons who could have provided potential evidence needed to ensure that no perpetrator of this attack goes unpunished.
The Commission continues to cooperate closely with the Member States of the European Union in an effort to express our position and dissatisfaction with the Iraqi side. (PT) The issue raised here, however, is that the Iraqi government prevented an investigation of the assassination of Sérgio Vieira de Melo in the same way it did in other cases.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week the Commission adopted a proposal for a directive which provides for protection from discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation and religion or belief beyond the workplace.
In accordance with Article 22 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 this card is valid for a temporary stay, whatever its purpose: tourism, employment or study.
If the holder of this card is in need of health care during his stay, the card entitles him to receive this health care from medical staff.
The European Health Insurance Card covers its holders for 'essential health care'.
The system of health care provision, as stipulated in Article 22 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, lays down the provision of health care and the payments for this in accordance with the legislation of the country in which the patient is temporarily residing.
Article 22 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 also applies to the countries of the European Economic Area, including Liechtenstein and Switzerland.
Negotiations concerning Andorra have not yet been successfully concluded.
The time allocated for questions to Commissioner Špidla is over.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) The measurements we are conducting now and that are nearly concluded will give us exact information about which European rules give rise to which costs.
The vast majority of rules come from no more than some 42 directives.
Ammonia phosphate, for instance, has increased from EUR 181 per tonne to EUR 800 per tonne in wholesale markets.
It is important to remember that, for the fact is that although European farmers have to spend more money on fertiliser, as they are indeed doing, at the same time they are getting better prices for their harvests.
FAO statistics over a comparable period show that food prices have risen by 37% over a 12-month period.
This probably flows over into other questions for Commissioner Fischer Boel.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, this is a very topical question and only a few days ago the Commission put forward a very broadly based initiative in this sector.
Subject: 'Health check' for the Common Agricultural Policy Tobacco growing is the sole source of income for some 130 000 European farmers.
This is not in fact true because of the fact that, when you modulate money, you generate more money to the sector in general, because the modulated money needs to be co-financed by Member States.
