European Statistical Governance Advisory Board - European Statistical Advisory Council (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Sharon Bowles, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Statistical Governance Advisory Board - C6-0348/2006 - and by Ieke van den Burg, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council setting up a European Advisory Committee on Community Statistical Information Policy - C6-0379/2006 -.
To that end I would especially like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mrs Bowles and Mrs Van den Burg, on their work and the quality of their reports.
This process of strengthening European statistical governance is supplemented by a new Commission proposal adopted on 16 October, only a few days ago, to review the Regulation on the production of European statistics.
The Board will also advise the Commission on appropriate measures to facilitate implementation of the Code of Practice as it relates to Eurostat and to the European Statistical System as a whole.
In return for flexibility in implementation of the pact, which was introduced under the reform adopted by the March 2005 European Council, the necessary figures must be indisputable and verifiable.
I therefore welcome the establishment of the European Statistical Advisory Committee and the European Statistical Governance Advisory Board.
The Committee will have far fewer members than its predecessor, the European Advisory Committee on Statistical Information in the Economic and Social Spheres (CEIES), and the reduction from 79 to 24 members will make it considerably more efficient.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I would like to express my appreciation to Mrs Bowles and Mrs van den Burg for their reports.
I would add here that only statistical data that have been collected and collated in the same way, in accordance with statistical principles, can be reliable and transparent, and will not be affected by short-term interests or passing priorities.
Member of the Commission. - (ES) Mr President, first, thank you all, especially the rapporteurs but also all the other people who have spoken in the debate for your involvement and cooperation in improving statistical governance in the European Union and, via the second committee reform, for improving users' involvement in the economic and social life of Europe with the aim of achieving a better statistical system, a more credible system.
What we are talking about here is a system and, as Mrs Van den Burg said, both the European Statistics Agency (Eurostat) and the national statistics agencies of the 27 Member States must be equal to the demands and hopes we are vesting in them; they must cooperate, they have to work in a coordinated fashion, they have to spur each other on; hence the code of practice and the way in which it is being applied is, from my point of view, a very positive thing.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 24 October.
