Protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems (debate) The next item is the report by Duarte Freitas, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas from the adverse impacts of bottom fishing gears - C6-0453/2007 -.
The truth of the matter is that in coastal areas it is the responsibility of the states to adopt measures to protect vulnerable ecosystems from bottom fishing.
Yet, if with this proposal we are already forcing those who wish to fish in a certain area to study the seabeds beforehand and the risk in these seabeds, it is my belief that this study will encompass all depths from 800 to 1 100, or to 1 500, and, therefore, there would be no need to set a clear definition of 1 000 metres, as this is already protected in another way.
However, we are still waiting for some further justification, possibly of a technical nature, that the specialists we heard were not able to pin point, but I think that what the Commissioner has said up to now does not present sufficient grounds for us to suppose that the 1 000 metre proposal would be valid.
Madam President, we are obviously all in favour of protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems from destructive fishing practices.
I should also like to recall that protection of these ecosystems had long been assured in the Autonomous Region of the Azores and it was only in 2003 that it was jeopardised by the European institutions, when they decided to open up fishing in this region indiscriminately, without any consideration for the need to protect these ecosystems.
Above all, the most important issue seems to me to be for us to have totally consistent legislation and the problem with the 1 000 metres is that it does not make any sense to say that one cannot fish below 1 000 metres outside European waters, and yet one can fish below 1 000 metres in European waters - this does not make any sense from the point of view of the legislation's environmental soundness.
There are no scientific studies that show whether vulnerable ecosystems are below or above those 1 000 metre levels.
The protection of vulnerable ecosystems is complicated.
It was announced in the NATURA 2000 that this coastal region had four sites and there is a limit imposed on fishing there in order to protect the deep-water coral.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Whilst broadly supporting the proposals in the report that aim to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas, we would like to stress the need for the measures adopted in this field to be taken based on scientific fisheries research and in an appropriate fashion, that is to say, in the light of the diversity of existing situations.
In fact, about 50% of the animals or flora collected from areas deeper than 3 000 metres are a new species.
Scientists have speculated that as many as 10 million species may inhabit the deep sea, biodiversity comparable to the world's richest tropical rain forests.
Let us not then talk about 1 000 metres.
If there are vulnerable deep-sea ecosystems, they may lie at 800 or 1 200 metres, but the studies we are making fleets submit in order to obtain fishing licences will show this: it is as simple as that and therefore I believe that it is a question of being reasonable on this matter.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 5 June 2008.
