One-minute speeches on matters of political importance The next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. (EL) Mr President, fellow Members, as you know, negotiations are in progress between the Union and South Korea on the creation of a free trade area.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Russian elections held on 2 December may fill us with fear.
At the same time, the bilateral relationship must in any event be based on maintaining respect for human rights and real reciprocity.
I would like to remind you that on 16 May two Spaniards, Miguel Ángel López and Edén Galván were detained in Riga, along with five Portuguese, for taking some Latvian flags that were hanging from street lamps.
This nightmare ended with a fine of EUR 4 000 each in November.
I would also like to make a complaint about the disappointing spectacle in this House during the visit of the President of the Spanish Government, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero.
The EU must say a decisive 'no' to the introduction of genetically modified organisms into foods. (DE) Mr President, the Duma elections on 2 December once again demonstrated that no surprises are to be expected in Russia.
Moving on to my question, I would like to say that last week I had the opportunity to meet with Mrs Yolanda Pulecio, the mother of Ingrid Betancourt, who as you know has been held as a hostage by FARC since 2001.
She conveyed to me, as I am now conveying to you, to Parliament and the Commission, to the European institutions, the need for the Union to play a fundamental role in supporting the mediation by both Hugo Chávez, the President of Venezuela, and of President Sarkozy of France.
On 9 October, the European institutions, through the Portuguese Presidency, also supported this mediation.
I therefore ask the European institutions not to let this call from Mrs Yolanda Pulecio, the mother of Ingrid Betancourt, fall on deaf ears. (Applause) Mr President, 23 November saw the first anniversary of the murder of my constituent, Alexander Litvinenko, in what was an act of state-sponsored nuclear terrorism.
The 2+3+2 formula tends to be used in the Member States as a response to certain current political requirements.
I also want to reaffirm the Community preference principle in the context in which the Parliament discusses the European Blue Card, which will create the possibility to import a labour force of over 20 million people from outside the European Union.
Four MEPs of Hungarian nationality were given a mandate in the Romanian elections to the European Parliament: Magor Csibi, Csaba Sógor, László Tőkés and Iuliu Winkler.
In view of Moldova's vulnerability, I have no doubt that establishing further partnerships between different market regions, Member States and third countries which meet our criteria will enhance our energy security.
Please believe us when we say that this is very important for us. (EL) Mr President, I would like to mention a brutal attack on an ethnic Greek journalist, which took place on 5 December in Istanbul.
The journalist in question is Andreas Robopoulos, correspondent of the Greek television channel MEGA and editor of the Greek-language newspaper ECHO.
This comes on the heels of many other incidents, such as the murder of the ethnic Armenian journalist Hrant Dink on 19 January in Istanbul, and the events of 13 December, when bulldozers from the Turkish forestry department destroyed the Monastery of the Transfiguration on the island of Heybeliada (Halki).
For 33 years, Turkish forces have occupied part of the island and kept 200 000 refugees away from their homes.
For 33 years, the Turkish army has held the uninhabited town of Famagusta and uses it to blackmail the Greek Cypriot community.
For 33 years, Turkish soldiers have imposed a Berlin-like division of the capital, Nicosia.
In the context of the Bali Conference, the European Union should undertake the role of leader in fighting climate changes.
I am happy that their expectations in that regard were fulfilled and that at midnight on 20 December the last remnants of the Iron Curtain will fall and the borderless Euro-regions will become a reality.
Normally the President does not comment on what speakers have said, but on my list it says 'EUR 170' and not 'EUR 170 million', so I am happy that the United Kingdom has nothing to criticise in this case! (Laughter) (SL) I would like to inform you of certain events on the Croatian-Slovenian border.
Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to remind you that 5 December was the anniversary of the birth of a great Pole and European - Polish Head of State Marshal Józef Piłsudski.
These words remain relevant today, with Poland being one of the 27 Member States of the European Union. (SK) Mr President, on 19 November 2007 the A6 motorway connecting Bratislava and Vienna was inaugurated.
This initiative has my full backing and 70 000 signatures show that the population is no longer willing either to allow these tragic circumstances to pass without comment.
This year, all 27 Member States of the Union have held a series of celebrations to commemorate the birth of the European Union and its 50th anniversary or birthday.
The essence of the initiative is that, following in the footsteps of the Ancient Greek traditions, the European Parliament should instigate a worldwide ceasefire for the first time in 2008 during the Olympic Games in Beijing.
The mayors started collecting signatures on 1 December and they would like to give the petition to you, Mr President, here in Strasbourg in the spring.
Furthermore, the problems of the pharmaceutical policy affect the interests of more than 80 European pharmaceutical manufacturers who also seek greater transparency.
The statutory radio of the Slovak Republic is bound by law to broadcast in national minority languages.
In 2005, all 27 Member States agreed to abide by the framework for the setting of eco-design requirements for energy-using products.
The Commission began infringement proceedings against 21 Member States and, to date, 15 Member States have still failed to comply with this law.
In this week when the Bali conference is occurring, it is a scandal that Member States are failing to conform with measures that they have already agreed with and which could already have had a significant impact on tackling the issue of climate change. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, today is a turning point in the Western Balkans and also in the life of the whole European Union.
This is the Union's responsibility. (FR) Mr President, on 6 December the Strasbourg industrial tribunal issued its decision in the case of the European Parliament versus some of its employees.
I quote: 'Notes that the assignment contract between Manpower and the European Parliament is invalid; notes that the project contract between Manpower with the employees is invalid; states and rules that the contractual relationship between the applicant employee and the European Parliament should be put on a permanent contract footing'.
The Commission encouraged all 27 Member States to take up the idea.
