We adopted a set of changes to the Rules of Procedure last year to try to rationalise our work.
In these changes we gave every Member the right to table an amendment as an individual at committee stage, but we limited the right to table amendments in plenary to 32 Members or a political group.
However, if you look at the amendments that have been tabled on Thursday, for instance to the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report, you will see that there are over 100 amendments which are tabled by individuals, supposedly in the name of their political group, but this may well not be the case.
I notice, for instance, that the EPP Group has over 100 amendments in its name but signed by 18 different Members, none of them the coordinator or leader of the group.
Over 20 of these amendments are contradictory, so they cannot possibly all be the position of the EPP Group.
So much time is spent and wasted on voting as it is and this is a way to get around the rationalisation of the Rules of Procedure we adopted as a Parliament last year.
Amendments must either be tabled in the name of 32 Members or in the name of a political group and actually represent the position of that political group, not of the individual who happens to table them in the name of the group so as to circumvent the limitation on tabling rules in plenary.
Mr President, I was present yesterday and I signed the register but my name does not appear in the Minutes.
It shall be done, Mrs McNally.
Mr Rübig, look upon it as an exceptional decision taken in response to specific requests from the Portuguese Presidency. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, on a point of order.
It concerns a reference made yesterday by the President on the change of business which is taking place this week.
It is planned for our agenda in May.
on postponement of the decision concerning discharge to the Commission in respect of the financial management of the sixth, seventh and eighth European Development Funds for the 1998 financial year [COM(1999) 227 - C5-0003/1999 - 1999/2004(DEC)] .
on granting discharge to the European Foundation for Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin) for the 1998 financial year [C5-0150/2000 - 2000/2094(DEC)] .
on granting discharge to the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Thessaloniki) for the 1998 financial year [C5-0149/2000 - 2000/2093(DEC)] .
on the granting of discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 1998 financial year Section IV - Court of Justice Section V - Court of Auditors Section VI, Part B - Committee of the Regions [SEC(1999) 414 - C5-0008/1999 - 1999/2166(DEC)] .
Firstly, the error rate of over five per cent calculated by the Court of Auditors over several years must be cut considerably by 2001 and a positive declaration of assurance must be achieved by 2003.
Secondly, the particularly blatant cases of fraud and irregularity in connection with the Fléchard case, ECHO, MED and contracts awarded to visiting scientists must be fully clarified and dealt with in disciplinary terms.
Thirdly, Parliament must be given unrestricted access to information and documents for its control activities, as called for in the 1997 discharge resolution.
Fourthly: reports must be filed on the relevant disciplinary hearings and fundamental reforms implemented.
The fact that this motion was tabled in the form of a compromise between the four main groups demonstrates clearly that Parliament is pulling in the same direction on this extremely important issue and wishes to signal its unity over and above party political divisions and any national interests or chauvinism.
Commissioner' s Kinnock' s reform paper, which is broad in scope if nothing else, sets off every single alarm bell in the area of financial control.
Decentralisation must not result in the total de facto abolition of internal financial control.
In this sense, I see the motion for a resolution as a chance for the Commission to justify the trust which Parliament demonstrated in it and its President when I was nominated last September and which it reiterated in its discharge for the 1997 budgetary year.
The motion should also send out nothing more and nothing less than a clear signal of Parliament' s support to the President of the Commission, who unfortunately is not with us here today.
However, it is difficult to grant discharge for a budget which is two years old and this problem is exacerbated by the fact that it was not the responsibility of the present Commission but of its predecessor, a Commission which resigned because it failed to take its responsibilities seriously enough.
Our Committee had confidential information on mismanagement and irregularities which amounted to suspicion of corruption.
Together with representatives from the Commission and the parliamentary Committee on Development we have drawn up an action plan, which can be implemented by 15 May.
I think that this development clearly demonstrates the direction that we need to take.
The Commission and Parliament must work together and must create greater transparency in relation to the budget and its implementation.
It took the Committee over 15 months to refer justified cases of suspicion of fraud to OLAF.
However, we have not moved for a postponement in this area because we hope that a satisfactory solution can be found and that we can grant discharge for the buildings in the 1999 budget with no further pressure needed.
My draft report was presented to the Committee in all language versions on 10 February this year and all the shortcomings reported in the press, such as the article in the European Voice about 10 days ago, have already been addressed in an open and critical manner in the report.
That is another difference in the discharge procedures.
If we did that, there would not be a single Commission over the next 20 years which needed to fear Parliament' s discharge or, at most, its merciless opportunism!
The reason for this is that we delayed the discharge for 1992 for a long time, because we had made certain requirements of the Commission which up to last year it had failed to meet.
In general terms, the error rate for agriculture is below the general error rate for the budget.
There has since been an increase in expenditure for development within rural areas but I will come back to this.
We can grant discharge to the Commission without these three elements.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam therefore means that the principle of the equality of all citizens and of the equivalence of all acts in the eyes of the law must be applied in the area of the protection of financial interests.
Mr President, we are now considering the first legislative measure on the prevention of fraud and other irregularities since the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force.
This is an amendment to a regulation designed to prevent fraud and other irregularities relating to the common agricultural policy.
In 1970, the CAP accounted for up to 87% of Community expenditure and this amount has gradually fallen over the last three decades to around 45% of Community expenditure today.
Until a few years ago, even the policing of fraud in agriculture was not overseen by the appropriate department, which was UCLAF, but by the Directorate-General for Agriculture itself.
This is why we propose that this House should request that the legal basis for regulating the prevention of fraud and other irregularities be changed from Article 37 to Article 280.
We have decided to give the discharge on three conditions, and the conditions are clearly spelt out.
We hope that by 15 August those concerned will give us the information that is requested.
The number of people employed for the amount of money being invested is again quite disproportionate.
I am hoping that this can be wound up speedily and incorporated in either the EIB or the European Investment Fund, because that would be a better way of using the money and resources.
This is for the social and research fund, but again these objectives could be better addressed by a bank that would ask other banks to manage investments so that we have the highest return.
I hope that the three conditions, the conditional discharge and the obligations on those concerned to address these conditions will be taken seriously.
So I hope that the answers will be given to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, it is with some satisfaction that I would like to point out that, in our own area of competence, the Court of Auditors had no criticism to make of the way the appropriations for the financial year 1998 were implemented.
In a word, as far as our committee' s area of competence is concerned, there is nothing to prevent the discharge being granted to the Commission.
The citizens' primary right is to see that their money is managed and spent properly and as long is this is not clearly established discharge must not be granted.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, expenditure for research accounts for nearly two thirds of the budget for internal policy.
The success and usefulness of the research programmes are beyond dispute.
But effective implementation requires better management and coordination, as well as inspections carried out by various Directorates-General.
Secondly, the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors refer mainly to errors in relation to proof of expenditure which are signed by Member States, and for which they are responsible.
We have translated this criticism into a number of very concrete questions, answers and proposals in order to make drastic changes to the policy as it is being adopted now and will be adopted this coming year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, for the second time this year, we are debating the discharge of the Commission for the budget of a previous financial year.
Two and a half months ago, you granted the Commission discharge for the 1997 budget.
In its report on the 1998 financial year, submitted in November last year, the Court of Auditors granted the Commission a declaration of assurance with regard to receipts and the handling of commitment appropriations.
That is why I immediately took the initiative, in my official capacity, of drafting an action plan listing specific measures sector by sector on the basis of a specific timetable, in order to reduce the number of errors identified.
Nearly 90% of all errors identified or highlighted by the Court of Auditors concern the Member States.
The majority of payments out of the EU budget are paid not directly by the Brussels administration, but by administrative units in the Member States.
The Council, which recommended discharge for the Commission, included the question of shared management in its debate on the 1998 budget discharge and the proposal was mooted that the Member States should perhaps set their own objective for reducing shortcomings in the implementation of EU funds, an interesting proposal.
The European Court of Auditors also issued a declaration of assurance for the budget of the European Development Fund, although it did find cause for complaint.
The legislative, budgetary and control powers of the individual institutions overlap even more in the European Union than they do in the Member States.
The chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mrs Theato, also has a very responsible role in this respect.
The Commission has made a commitment to transparency and openness.
The Commission has nothing to hide and this Commission sees it as its duty to support Parliament fully in the performance of its duties.
The Commission is called on in the report adopted by the Committee on Budgetary Control to answer various questions or take direct action by 15 May.
I should like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for this resolution and also for the deadline attached to it.
I should like to say quite clearly at this point that the Commission will do everything within its powers to fight fraud and that applies not only to the future, but to clearing up past cases.
It also means that proportionality is required when meting out punishment and demanding refunds and this applies both to demands by the Commission and to refunds demanded by the Member States.
My colleague Franz Fischler will shortly be going into the question of the agricultural budget in connection with discharge in greater detail.
But I too should like to say at this point that I do not see the letters drawing the Commission' s attention to the fact that companies may fold or jobs be destroyed following certain Commission measures as an illegal attempt at intervention, irrespective of whether the letters originate in Parliament or in a Member State and regardless of whether they come from France, Ireland or Bavaria.
However, the Commission will immediately notify OLAF of your demands and, as far as the administrative investigation is concerned, I have set the procedure of clarification in motion.
The Commission will do everything to ensure that the reform is a success and it would be a good thing if all the European institutions were to expose themselves to such reform.
Mr Mulder, I should like to start by thanking you on behalf of the Commission for your report on granting discharge in respect of the decisions on clearance of accounts of the Guarantee Section of the EAGGF for the 1993, 1994 and 1995 financial years.
The date of April 2002 is needed in order at last to guarantee the proper operation of the integrated administration and control system in all the Member States.
Even if it is not prescribed under law, it could of course simplify a number of operations, not only for the Commission, but also for the Court of Auditors or OLAF.
The recruitment procedure for the remaining six posts has already been completed, or will be shortly.
The Conciliation Body referred to in number 16 of the report is one of the measures which should ensure that efforts to speed up the procedure do not compromise the quality of document audits.
As far as proposed Amendment No 2 is concerned, the Commission cannot accept the part which refers to the second paragraph of Article 5a, in which mention is made of administrative and staffing costs incurred by the Commission in administering this scheme.
On the other hand, granting discharge is a serious procedure with serious consequences in that the controlling body answers for the fact that the activities and financial conduct of the body being controlled have been correct from a legal, economic and political point of view.
The sources for the information and documents needed from the Commission, on the other hand, gushed little, if anything at all, despite a great deal of paper and, unfortunately, no clear answers were given to the questions asked.
The rapporteur quotes four cases by way of example.
The rapporteur and the Committee on Budgetary Control are not holding the present Commission per se responsible for the deplorable state of affairs in previous years.
Using the pressure of postponement to advance discharge is constructive pressure because it gives the Commission the chance to clear up shortcomings caused by slowness, pettifogging or unwillingness so that Parliament will be able to grant discharge for 1998 as quickly as possible, hopefully before the summer recess.
Mr President, the Committee on Budgetary Control has considered several reports recently, mostly relating to the 1998 discharge procedure.
It is a strange time for us to be considering how the Commission is faring after its forced resignation last year due to many of the issues highlighted in the 1996 discharge.
The discharge procedure is, of course, an opportunity for the European Parliament to exercise its responsibility in terms of monitoring the Commission and the other institutions' behaviour.
We ensure that policies have been well managed.
I will quote Shakespeare.
It makes no sense in the context of the postponement report, and it is totally nonsensical and hysterical in tone.
We would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation on that.
But one thing which has become manifestly clear to me during this process is that we need an overhaul of the discharge procedure to avoid this kind of confrontation again.
This discharge procedure should be an opportunity to study systems failures within the Commission.
In an ideal world, it should be based on the Court of Auditors' Report, but that does mean that both the Budgetary Control Committee and the Court of Auditors must develop a much closer relationship.
There is a massive amount of expertise in the Court of Auditors, expertise that Parliament should draw on in order to reach its own political conclusions.
The discharge procedure should not be a time to score political points nor to hound individuals but, where systems fail and lead to inefficiency or - worse - to fraud, it is the duty of Parliament to correct them.
We must also make sure that we find a mechanism within this system to make sure that we take account not only of the reports that are submitted by members of the Budgetary Control Committee, but also those by members of other parliamentary committees.
These are just two examples of how the Commission can improve its act in the short term without waiting to implement all the recommendations of the White Paper.
There is a question to answer as to whether the current Commission should or can take responsibility for the mistakes and problems of the past Commission.
If we took this to its logical conclusion, it would mean that Parliament could only judge a sitting Commission during three years of its tenure.
Mr Kuhne has done an excellent job as rapporteur for the Parliament discharge.
Our financial control system does not have the quantity of payments that the Commission has and therefore things are more manageable.
We have had everlasting problems, of course, with the buildings, often through no fault of our own but because decisions have been imposed on us by the Council.
If the Council had any concern about budget control, we certainly would not be sitting in this building right now.
It has still not been published officially, and therefore it is difficult for us to comment on it.
I am delighted that Mrs Rühle has done such a great job on the EDF report.
We hope that we will be able to develop a better approach in the next part of this discharge procedure.
I should add that we, as a group, have less appreciation for the explanatory note which the rapporteur has added to her own resolution.
I would now like to come back to the Stauner report and a number of points made in it.
We can see that the new Commission is making an effort, but the 1998 discharge is at issue here and we must take it very seriously.
We must re-establish confidence and that means that, as a committee, we must make a critical examination of the 1998 budget.
We hope that the action plan will help the administration to achieve better management.
Obviously it was not possible to submit this action plan in time for today' s decision.
However, we call on Parliament for precisely this reason to vote for a postponement here, so that an action plan can be drawn up jointly by 15 May.
Transparency and openness mean - and this is my clear call - that we must apply the same yardstick to all the institutions.
Mr President, the European Union lacks moral authority.
I do not really understand why it should discharge itself just now, when the report by the Court of Auditors of the European Communities on monetary and economic issues for 1998 is being prepared and is about to be published.
Most of the officials in the EU are diligent and decent people.
Postponement of the granting of discharge is in itself the result of a quite incredible situation.
These extraordinary results from a seedy administrative culture go back to 1998 and are not this Commission' s direct responsibility, but it is the present Commission' s responsibility to show that the misconduct, fraud and betrayal of mandates which have taken place really do belong to the past.
We shall therefore vote against the discharge for Parliament' s 1998 accounts.
The Commission must understand that they are not Europe' s overlords but the servants of European citizens.
I think that we need to do some straight talking to the Commission and that we may have to penalise their persistent bad conduct with a new crisis of confidence after 15 May, if necessary by means of a motion of no confidence, because desperate situations call for desperate measures.
Under Article 276(2), the EC Treaty requires the Commission to submit to Parliament any necessary information on the execution of expenditure and operation of the financial control systems.
I have a few comments on Mr Kuhne' s and Mrs Stauner' s reports.
If we take the context of this report we will see that it has to stand on its own merits.
If we add to that the Court of Auditors' report on the operation of the political groups, we have come to the conclusion in our political group that we need to postpone discharge on its own merits.
You can ask for access to information, but if you do not get it then you have to start applying a certain rigidity and postpone discharge.
Secondly, the question of the disciplinary procedure.
Therefore we, as a Parliament, should look at each of these cases as it stands.
My group will be in favour of postponing discharges both for the Commission and for Parliament until all the information is available to us.
Mrs Schreyer, Members of the Commission, use the postponement of discharge for the 1998 budget as an opportunity to show that the new team is strong on management and able to act.
Mr President, the key task of this European Parliament is, and remains, that of restoring European citizens' confidence in the European project.
Unfortunately, the Council failed once again this year to follow the good example of Parliament, and discharge for 1998 has been granted as if the matter were quite insignificant.
Our pressure has prompted the European Commission to undertake drastic reform in foreign policy.
The plans for changing the project cycle and transforming the SCR into a European bureau are a positive step forward.
The Kuhne report is Parliament' s first report which takes discharge seriously.
I would like to emphatically lay the blame for Parliament' s bad image with those who have always had a majority.
The two large parties are responsible for the ethos of nepotism and underhand dealing which permeates this House.
To grant discharge is, when all is said and done, to grant a certificate of good management.
The four largest groups have reached a compromise in which it is recommended that discharge be delayed and that the European Commission be given a list of 17 specific questions.
I was a victim of this myself in a previous life when my computer and printer were stolen.
Hence our amendment which recommends postponement of discharge for Parliament' s budget and which has given the Secretary-General a list of queries which we expect to be answered by 15 May.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group is convinced that such practices can only seriously impair the credibility and, hence, the image of the European Union as a whole.
The Treaties clearly establish the exclusive competence of Parliament in matters of budgetary control.
Mr President, the 1998 discharge procedure illustrates once again that the European Union' s bad image is not totally unfounded but is actually based on facts.
The Stauner report deserves every support on this score.
It is important that you try to become, firstly, an example for the Member States to follow and that, therefore, you understand that we demand more of you, if possible; and one day we will have to start to talk very seriously about these cases which are always detected in the Council rather than in the Commission.
All the groups have reached an agreement to raise 17 questions in relation to certain cases.
After the crisis of the previous Commission, which you have begun to deal with, what we want - because we believe in your intentions and we want a strong and independent Commission and we are therefore giving you time - is for you to give us a positive response to certain very specific cases.
As rapporteur for the 1999 Commission budget, I would love to be able to do my work in the clear knowledge of which documents we have access to and which we do not and why.
As you can see in this budget, this is a political debate which goes beyond a strict examination of what you have done with regard to the 1998 budget.
We will also have to reach a framework agreement on how we can include in this debate - which is becoming increasingly important - not only accounting issues but also issues from other years relating to expenditure or management.
You are facing a great challenge, because even more resources are lost through a lack of motivation, that virus which has infected the entire administration of the Commission and which you must eradicate.
This is a quality issue which will also have to be increasingly discussed in the context of this debate.
I will refer finally to the European Parliament' s budget, and I would like to reply to those people who say that, since we are supposedly tough and demanding with you, we must also be so with regard to our own institution.
The same must be demanded of Parliament as of all the others, but this is our House, we have more information and we can therefore take a different approach when it comes to proposing, as the Kuhne report does, a conditional discharge and not a postponement of the discharge.
I will end by saying that you can reply to the 17 questions we have raised.
We want you to do so, and we understand that in that way we can support you so that you, who have just joined this Commission, can really control your house. 'Take the bull by the horns' - as we say in Spain - and we will be able to achieve a discharge for this year on the part of the majority of the Groups in this House before the summer.
The Treaty is clear: in accordance with Article 276, Parliament is entitled to obtain all necessary information in connection with the discharge procedure.
Excuse me but, either the man has been out in the sun too long or he must have some incredibly bad advisers.
Until they understand this, I think we should postpone granting discharge.
I hope the Commission will take our demands seriously.
The ECHO scandal has still not led to any repercussions.
The problem is that the ECHO case is not about property crime.
The decision to exonerate the previous director was taken by the previous Commission, and this was a political decision pure and simple.
There are still unresolved demands but, if we postpone granting the discharge, this will be accompanied by clear demands upon the Commission.
I obtained 11 reports under Pentagon-like conditions, but OLAF still does not know anything about these.
As the Member States, that is to say the Council, has advocated discharge, this is almost a matter of structural conflict.
Apparently, the Court of Auditors should specify the shortcomings and incidences of malpractice in more detail and place less trust in mathematics.
Commissioner Kinnock' s package of reforms must be pushed through without delay.
The main focus is the reform of internal auditing in each of the institutions.
Mr President, over the last few days we have read in the press that the European Parliament is a haven for thieves.
Mr President, Commissioner, I was responsible for the research section of the part of the report by my fellow member, Gabriele Stauner, relating to internal policy.
The Court of Auditors highlighted a series of shortcomings in the research area in 1998.
They also include the internal audit report drafted in 1997 on the area of jurisdiction of the former Commissioner for Research, Mrs Cresson.
Mr President, representatives of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the discharge procedure is a complicated exercise.
This report was unacceptable in its initial form because it did not give us the material to form an opinion as to whether or not the budget for 1998 was correctly implemented by the Commission.
I shall conclude by mentioning the internal reform of the Commission.
Among other objectives, the Commission has set itself the task of improving financial control by various means: new structures, responsibilities of authorising officers, and financial controllers within each directorate-general.
It also seems essential that, in combination with the determination to reduce irregularity and fraud effectively, the reform should be able to look into the implementation of our policies within Member States, where one of the problems arising concerns payment deadlines and the inadequacy of some payment appropriations.
There is fraud at every level of government at which I have served - local, national and European and regional.
It is always there, but local and national bodies can stand up to criticism better perhaps than this younger institution of the European Union, which is less accepted.
The last point I will make is that we have not only an obligation to ensure that accounts are better kept and money is better accounted for.
Mr President, Parliament' s refusal last year to grant discharge on the 1996 budgetary year heralded the fall of the Santer Commission.
Parliament employed its powers in a sound manner under special circumstances.
The Commission is being given the opportunity of responding to a number of urgent questions raised and requests made by Parliament before 15 May.
The Commission has already indicated that it will submit proposals to this effect before the summer.
I am therefore all the more at home today in expressing the concerns I have due to the discharge procedure which is being carried out.
I do not wish to challenge the compromise which appears in the resolution negotiated between the political groups and the rapporteur.
Firstly, it no longer uses the vehement and aggressive tone of the initial draft report, a tone which I do not find, as I might say in the style of Kenneth Starr, worthy of this House, being rather more suited to the tabloid press, and one which should not in any case be used to characterise relations between a responsible institution, such as our own, and a Commission in which we expressed our confidence but a few months ago.
Thirdly, this report asks the Commission questions which it can answer within reasonable time limits, enabling us to vote upon discharge within the time limits stipulated by the Treaty.
The first is that we are forgetting what the discharge procedure consists of.
Mr President, I shall focus on only one point: access to information.
Many of my colleagues have raised this issue this morning.
In my committee, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, we are determined to take our responsibilities as MEPs very seriously indeed.
A start would be a list of who is responsible for what in which budget lines of each committee.
First of all, I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur for her report.
Finally, I would like to mention the problem surrounding the Leonardo programme.
You will be aware that the Leonardo programme has played an extremely important role in the events which have led to the previous Commission resigning from office.
We want, in the final analysis, to place our trust in the courts, OLAF and the disciplinary measures and decisions taken and to work together with President Prodi' s new Commission on a basis of trust and on the basis precisely of the relevant new rules and obligations introduced.
Demanding a new audit, without submitting any proof or evidence, is hardly going to enhance the credibility of our Parliament.
It would be very useful if the Commission were to release more information to us and give us the reports we ask for.
Any new proof that arises from these cases must be investigated.
The three cases I have mentioned are also quite important because they reflect remarkably on four current Commissioners.
All four of them must look carefully at their past, come clean and show this new Commission where reform is needed.
I hope that Commissioner Kinnock listens to this debate and will reflect upon.
Although we have recommended discharge for our own budget this time, there are a number of points in the discharge report we should look at, especially the inventory services and the new system.
I welcome the fact that the Kuhne report has called for a report on the new inventory system for Parliament.
I hope the Commission takes the time to look at this debate seriously.
I must simply therefore ask, if we are being accused of withholding something, that you specify what has been withheld, because it is only on this basis that we can clear up misunderstandings or give you more information and this should not fail because of the Commission.
The legal basis for OLAF clearly states that the director of OLAF is responsible for information on investigations or the results of investigations.
We have to discuss this with the director of OLAF.
Another important point is the question of disciplinary procedure and I should like to comment on this.
Mr Bösch, you made the comment that the Council did not unanimously recommend discharge for the Commission this year.
Mr Mulder, you also returned to this point.
I think we should discuss this at some point - including in the Committee on Budgetary Control - because although the procedure in the Netherlands is of course different, there are valuable points which we could perhaps adopt for the procedure in relation to the European budget.
The Commission has also decided to set up a separate, internal ex-post audit service and I think that this will again demonstrate that the Commission takes the subject of improved financial control extremely seriously.
It has been clearly stated that the objective must be to reduce the error rate and I can only agree with this.
But obviously I cannot reduce the error rates for the 1998 or 1999 budgets in retrospect.
Mrs Langenhagen used her intervention to criticise the independent financial controller of the Union in connection with a report on the research centre in Geel.
Mrs Ferreira, allow me to congratulate you on your first speech in Parliament and to thank you for your call for cooperation for the benefit of European politics.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Amendments Nos 3 and 4 propose to limit substantially the circumstances in which Member States may waive some or all of the provisions of the directive to certain limited electronic money schemes.
Therefore, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 4.
The request was not submitted in time.
At that time the Commission announced a legislative programme with a view to improving food safety regulations.
Mismanagement of the crisis, particularly the poor coordination between the various authorities involved, became apparent and was noted in the course of the Commission inspection.
The common position did not adopt the European Commission' s right to take safeguard measures appropriate to the context of animal nutrition in the event of an emergency.
This is why the rapporteur proposes reintroducing this clause, and I am pleased to see it because without this clause there is no guarantee of consumer protection in food crisis situations.
On the other hand, these experiments assess the effect of each substance taken in isolation.
We therefore await Commission proposals for provisions that are directed more at improving consumer protection but also at promoting quality foodstuffs!
Kirkhope report (A5-0090/2000): The Danish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the report and fully and wholeheartedly support the initiatives being taken where this is concerned.
In addition, the report sets the cut-off age at 16 for the definition of what must be considered to be child pornography.
In the same way, the idea of the 'offence of child pornography' must be seen as quite comprehensive!
In addition, it is very important to organise better cooperation between Member States police forces through Europol.
The European Parliament must make bold proposals and must remain very vigilant.
In the same way, it is important that joint, effective measures should be taken and that the European Parliament should be kept informed of how this work is progressing.
Within the vast Internet market there are some people who have found ways to make easy money from exploiting human poverty.
Frahm report (A5-0091/2000): Mr President, creating this European Refugee Fund is the very least that could be done to face up to the reception of refugees and forcibly displaced persons likely to enter European Union territory.
As in the case of the structural funds, the citizens will be led to believe that Europe is handing out heaven-sent money in order to assist them in managing refugees.
Europe is thus creating a good reputation for itself on the cheap.
It is always the same process: some pitiful situation is selected (the plight of the refugees, in this instance) in order to appeal not to rational argument but to people' s sympathy.
Following our opinion and the response of the Council, the Commission replaced this project with a proposal to create a European Refugee Fund, initially for a period of five years (2000-2004) and I must say that I am delighted with it!
In putting forward a multiannual plan with a wider sphere of activity, the Commission is acting in compliance with the Treaty of Amsterdam in undertaking long-term actions in favour of refugees and displaced persons and responding to the requirements expressed by the European Council in Tampere in October 1999 regarding the creation of an instrument appropriate for emergency situations.
The Fund is a single instrument intended to integrate the three facets of European policy on refugees: the reception, integration and repatriation of refugees and displaced persons.
For the financial year 2000, the Commission proposes an allocation of EUR 26 million for structural measures and EUR 10 million for emergency measures.
The European Commission must provide us with financial estimates covering the entire period of the programme within the scope of current financial perspectives and, if necessary, a proposal for the revision of appropriations, in view of the fact that much greater amounts will be necessary in order to achieve the Fund' s objectives.
An approach whereby immigrants entering the EU in search of protection are seen as a "burden" which has to be "distributed" is fundamentally flawed.
The Fund will not, in this form, cause any country to switch to a policy of greater openness towards the immigration of refugees.
A knowledge-based economy underpinned by a society based on information and research will be a powerful factor in the European Union' s development and of course requires a swift and consistent process of structural reforms and the completion of the internal market.
Just yesterday, I was able to inform the General Affairs Council that the Portuguese Presidency had already prepared a timetable for the remits given by the Council for implementation of specific measures in the various areas, and also for appropriate preparation of the Feira and Nice European Councils.
The Ecofin Council will primarily assume responsibility for strengthening the Cardiff process, the action plan for financial services, the action plan for venture capital, the tax package, the mid-term review of the employment guidelines and for the assessment of the contribution made by public finances to growth and employment.
The Employment and Social Affairs Council will assume responsibility for conducting a review of the employment guidelines, for mandating the High-Level Working Party on Social Protection to prepare a study on the sustainability of the pensions system up to 2020, for applying an open method of coordination to policies for combating social exclusion and for considering the future direction of social policy, with a view to reaching agreement on a European social agenda at the Nice European Council.
The Research Council will assume responsibility for the e-Europe Action Plan and for promoting the establishment of a European research area.
The Education Council will assume responsibility for considering the future objectives of our educational systems, with a view to contributing to the Luxembourg and Cardiff processes by establishing new basic skills at European Union level, for creating a European diploma for basic IT skills, for removing obstacles to the mobility of teachers, for developing a European format for curricula vitae, for monitoring national policies on implementing these objectives, for access to the Internet in schools by 2001 and for the minimum training, by 2002, of the network of information technology teachers.
As you can see, the task of setting objectives at the Lisbon European Council is developing into a major timetable for action that the Commission and the various Council formations must now implement.
The European Council defined a new Union strategy, a strategy which will make us a leading power in the new knowledge-based economy and make it possible to restore the necessary conditions for full employment.
The Lisbon European Council made a firm political commitment to an ambitious socio-economic plan; clear objectives were agreed for the reforms, the European social model was consolidated and, most importantly, it is now possible for the pledges made to be followed with immediate, practical actions.
Our success in Lisbon was largely due to the excellent preparatory work of the Portuguese Presidency.
The Lisbon debate generated substantial agreement on most issues.
The European Council stressed the importance of a strong, sound macroeconomic policy, consolidation in the field of taxation and sustainable financial policies and the structural reforms.
With regard to the internal market, the European Council adopted ambitious objectives in the field of procurement and in order to implement action plans for financial services and risk capital.
The Commission must act as the driving force in this process.
The European Council subscribed to the joint report prepared by the Commission and the High Representative, and also our request for more effective coordination between the various programmes implemented by the Union in that region.
Finally, on the subject of Russia, the European Council recognised the strategic nature of our relations with Moscow and invited President Putin to take note of our concern over the situation in Chechnya.
To sum up, Madam President, I would like to thank this House for its valuable contribution to the Lisbon Summit and for all it did to ensure the Council' s success.
Madam President, Mr Gama, President Prodi, with good reason the Lisbon Summit could be dubbed historic in terms of its political content.
The PPE-DE Group and, to the best of my knowledge, the whole of Parliament, support the Commission' s work while voicing constructive criticism.
As the imperfections of the Single Market now also stem from protraction on the part of the Member States, the implementation of each of the decisions taken at Lisbon will also depend at institutional level above all on whether the Member States will stand by the solemn theses of Lisbon in the years to come.
Madam President, the Lisbon Summit will mark a milestone.
Yet the market economy must necessarily have a social dimension.
I therefore advise all the Christian Democrats, all the Liberals and all the Democrats in general who want to see a social market economy, to vote in favour of the resolution proposed by the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
We wish to combine economic efficiency, quality of life and social protection.
I also want to express satisfaction at the fact that the open coordination with which we are familiar from employment policy is to be used as a tool in other areas to promote the use of information technology and reinforce training and strengthen research.
Working for common goals in this open and flexible way, in which countries can measure themselves against each other and learn from one another, is a good way both of ensuring progress and, at the same time, of guaranteeing individual countries' freedom to seek their own solutions to their own problems.
In developing employment policy and combating social exclusion, it is only right to invest not only in economic growth but also in education and training as a way of giving those who are excluded from society a foothold in the labour market and enabling them to help themselves.
Finally, I would offer an important and perhaps less complimentary remark.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, I think it is clear that, in January, when the Portuguese Presidency issued its first paper, the original impulse was perfectly laudable.
Having said that, Mr Prodi, the real challenge would be if, in coming months, you did not endorse this motion for a resolution, in the event that Parliament votes in favour of it tomorrow.
There is not one line on the reports which the Commission nonetheless submitted at the European Council in Helsinki.
Not one line on the practical implementation of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
In one of its documents on the integration of financial markets, the Commission itself said that such integration was possible only with a minimum of tax regulation.
Finally, in social matters, I do not think it wise, Mr Monti, for the Commission to give up any legislative proposals in matters of employment law.
The new economy also involves enabling workers, in the event of company restructuring or necessary discussions about the incorporation of technological innovations in companies, to proceed in decent conditions.
This must also be included in the Nice social agenda and we urge you to ensure that this is the case, because my Group wishes to see a strong and ambitious Commission, and will support you if you take the comments I have just made into account.
If that means that the Lisbon Summit sanctioned a liberal view of Europe, then I must of course, unfortunately, concur with this analysis.
The political difference between us is not a question of whether or not to adopt modern methods, but of what our concept of these modern methods is, particularly on the place and the role which all men and women, bar none, must play, both as workers and as citizens.
These conclusions were presented by the Heads of State and Government as part of a strategic objective to make the European Union the most competitive area in the world within ten years, by developing a knowledge-based economy and adopting policies geared towards growth and full employment.
I could go on, as there are countless conclusions completely identical to those in the 1993 White Paper.
There is nevertheless one aspect that deserves a particular mention in the area of policies for full employment.
In 1993, the objective was to halve the number of unemployed in the European Union, from 17 million to 8.5 million.
The fact is that we are now in 2000, unemployment still stands at 15 million and the summit conclusions promise us rates of almost full employment in ten years' time.
On the other hand, how is it that there can still be gross disparities in the minimum wage levels of some Member States, marked differences in the quality of social security systems and in the value of retirement pensions, and even in levels of unemployment or hidden unemployment, not to mention increasingly widespread pockets of poverty and exclusion?
In my own country, there is a tradition which differs markedly from the dominant tradition in the European Union.
My own country' s government opposes this, and so do we who are sceptical about this self-fulfilling development within the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Lisbon focused on employment, economic reform and the shift to the digital age.
It is in the interests of the Union to clarify relations between Austria and the EU.
Nobody doubts the importance of preparing the European public for the demands of a society based on information, knowledge, and new communications technologies as strategic weapons, in order to emerge victorious in the future, generating employment with higher-quality work and higher pay.
Madam President, I wish to add my warm welcome and congratulations to the presidency on the successful achievement of the Lisbon Summit.
I think we will come to see in the future that all roads did lead to Lisbon via Luxembourg, Cardiff and Cologne, because Lisbon should be the end of a process, one that can actually deliver as regards the sort of priorities we want to bring to a successful conclusion throughout the whole of the European Union.
The key question is how we turn the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit into action; we must ensure that we turn the rhetoric of Lisbon into a reality.
I want to look at the challenges that are inherent in the Lisbon process for Parliament, the Commission and, indeed, all three institutions.
In particular, for Parliament there is a huge challenge in realising the full legislative implications of completing a single market.
It is a challenge that Parliament must rise to, working with the other institutions, Commissioner Prodi and his colleagues, and the Council.
If we do not, nobody will understand or forgive us for not realising our aim.
The reason, as I mentioned before the Lisbon Summit, relates to those who are in the gallery with us today - the citizens of Europe.
To me, Lisbon is all about creating a Europe of highly-paid, highly-skilled, high-value-added jobs.
If we can achieve that sort of Europe from the Lisbon process, it will be good for our citizens and for Europe as a whole, because what could be more socially just and inclusive than a Europe that genuinely benefits from full employment and good jobs that everybody can enjoy?
Now is the time for us as a Parliament, the Commission and the Council to work together to ensure that key is turned. - (PT) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, the document adopted at the Lisbon Summit is rather abstract, and this may mean that it is not implemented equitably.
The Council ought to think about this and work towards a real Europe. - (PT) Mr President, the results of the Lisbon Summit demonstrate that everything the Portuguese Presidency has up to now presented as a priority for employment and for combating social exclusion has merely been a massive attempt to pull the wool over our eyes.
Its supporters may try to make its conclusions look rosy, whether they are talking about the so-called modernisation of the European social model or about the need to make the European Union the most competitive area in the world, but they cannot hide their real aims, which are to produce a labour market free from the conditions imposed by legislation designed to protect workers' rights, to put social security entirely in the hands of the financial markets and to speed up the process of liberalisation in fundamental sectors such as gas, electricity, postal services, transport and telecommunications.
This new method also entails the European Council rediscovering its fundamental strategic guidance mission, while allowing the various Councils of Ministers to take the practical decisions and the Commission to prepare and execute policy.
Mr President, I decided to speak in this debate when I read the truly excellent analysis of the current situation in Europe produced by the European Commission before the Lisbon Summit.
It is true that the Lisbon Summit also represented something of a sea-change in attitudes towards the global society and in particular towards issues like e-commerce.
At the same time there was a tension in Lisbon between the old world of the international socialists and the new world of those who have a slightly wider perspective.
The summit was variously described as a social summit and an e-summit and so on.
The reality is that the European social model is now living in London and she is called Laetitia Casta.
She is Marianne, the symbol of France but taxes in France are now so high that she now has to go and live in London despite the vastly increased taxation under Labour.
When I talk about words, I am thinking about words like "bench-marking" and "peer review" .
What actually matters is a light touch on the e-commerce directive, a light touch on telecommunications.
Please Mr Prodi, ignore your friends on the Left and stick with the new world not the old world.
At the same time, there are 800 000 highly-skilled jobs in the new economy which cannot be filled due to a lack of skilled human resources.
However, these highways can only be built by the Member States, by the public sector and by the European Union.
As for the promise to create twenty million jobs in the years to come, this is just as deceitful as it is ridiculous.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on one side of the coin we read that economic growth and employment figures are up, the e-Europe action plan is in the pipeline, unemployment is beginning to drop slightly and the economic and employment forecasts are good.
On the other side of the coin, we read that there are still 15 million unemployed, the telecommunications and Internet services sector is underdeveloped, there is a widening skills gap in information technology, structural long-term unemployment, too many state monopolies and fetters, competitive disadvantages vis-à-vis the USA and shortcomings in the implementation of European innovations.
Mr President, I welcome the Lisbon conclusions.
We will be looking very carefully, for example, at how the broad economic guidelines will be prepared, at just how successful the input of the Social Affairs and Employment Council will be in emphasising the need for employment and social cohesion when it formulates the broad economic guidelines.
If so, I think we will be disappointed.
Further than that, how quickly will the high-level group on the future of social protection begin to move into the realm of a convergence strategy for social protection that this House has called for?
It should be honest and say that, like us, it has always supported a social market economy.
But as always we want that to be balanced by solidarity and social inclusion.
I am talking about the request to the Commission that it contemplate, for 2001, a coordinated strategy in the legislative field.
At the moment we have, to name but a few, initiatives such as SLIM, the Business Test Panel, the Regulatory Policy Guidelines and the Better Law-Making Report, not to mention the initiatives relating to codification or the quality of legislation.
Improving quality must not only be directed at Community legislation but also at the legislation of the Member States.
In all new legislation we must establish a better balance between 'self regulation' and 'public regulation' , in accordance with what, in the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit, in some initiatives, has been called coregulation.
We must review the 'Best Business Impact' initiative.
Throughout the whole of this exercise, we must take account of the interests of the consumers and the interests of the environment, and these are complicated tasks.
We have to tackle that reform of the Treaty.
Mr President, congratulations on a particularly focused summit as regards: the clarity of the objectives; the analysis of the tasks needed to meet those objectives; and the built-in progress-chasing system.
There was particular emphasis at this summit on the European area of research and innovation, following the excellent communication from Commissioner Busquin.
We need people who have been disenfranchised in the areas of science and technology - women, older people and particularly those suffering disadvantage - to be on board in the quest for this wider knowledge.
Of course, we need new products and we need new processes and we need new ideas about how our society should be run.
We also need new sustainable technologies.
Mr President, many commentators have drawn adverse comparisons between the European Union and the old Soviet Union.
It may have been appropriate for the Kremlin in the 1960s but it is totally out of place in 21st century Europe.
I do not know whether she was speaking for her party, for the Parliament or in a personal capacity but I absolutely reject, repudiate and condemn her remarks and am delighted to have this opportunity of publicly dissociating myself from them.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, in January and last month, we were able to congratulate the Portuguese Presidency on its initiative to hold this special Council and on the thorough and conscientious way in which the Council had been prepared.
We know how difficult the real world is and how difficult it is to get the European Union to agree on a strategic objective.
I would like to express a deep-felt concern here: whilst the presidency, the 15 Member States, the President of the Commission, the Commission itself, the President of the European Parliament and a substantial part of this European Parliament are agreed on an objective and on a strategic plan, the main group in Parliament is deeply divided over what it wants and over which path it should follow in the European Union.
We urge the Portuguese Presidency and the Commission to continue in their determination to fight for us to be able to create our own model from the opportunities offered by globalisation, so that the wealth generated can be used to combat poverty and can be more evenly distributed to ensure that social cohesion, full employment and sustainable development will be the outcome - in ten years' time, but things should steadily improve up to then - of this meeting in Lisbon.
Secondly, social security.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that it was very important for this debate to be held and to have heard your opinions, your contributions, your points of view and your criticisms for, without such criticism, Europe cannot grow.
By setting very clear goals for fiscal policies, in order to gear them towards employment, or by setting goals so that the Commission can assess the sustainability of social security policies up to 2020, the Lisbon European Council has also established a new social agenda in Europe and will even enable the next European Council to focus on something that for years the European Council has not wished to focus on - a European social agenda.
What is significant is the fact that this was done without any scandal, without any great controversy, and in an absolutely consensual way.
Europe is like a huge seed, and its economic strength lies precisely in its tradition of operating in all sectors, both new and traditional, and excelling in the traditional sectors.
This applies to both new and old economies as well.
Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission.
The Cairo Summit instituted a mechanism for global dialogue at the highest political level which will enable us to add a new dimension to EU-Africa relations which have, until now, been limited either to bilateral frameworks or to regional platforms for dialogue, be they the ACP mechanism or the Barcelona Process.
The first sure indication of its success and of its historic importance was the level of representation of European and African countries: 58 countries - 45 from Africa and 13 from Europe - were represented at Head of State or Government level.
This ensured that all issues of common interest to the European Union and Africa were addressed, and on an equal footing, since both sides had the opportunity to express their concerns and also their common objectives.
In this context, all issues covered by these concerns and objectives - economic, political and development issues - were discussed in a frank and straightforward way.
In economic terms, understanding was reached on the need to define policies which will enable African countries to gain maximum benefit from the liberalisation of trade throughout the world, thus reversing the current trend of consistently and progressively marginalising Africa in world trade.
The commitment to reduce world poverty to half its present levels by 2015 was reiterated.
On the important issue of African debt, and despite the fact that at the summit a huge range of countries stated their national policies on this issue, it was stipulated that the bi-regional group of senior officials, which will in the first instance ensure that the summit' s decisions are implemented, will prepare a report on the debt situation in African countries.
On the other hand, the African countries committed themselves to promote and respect human rights, to eliminate patterns of discrimination against women, to fully support the establishment of the International Criminal Court and to combat discrimination and intolerance.
Other important issues such as education, AIDS and the environment were addressed under the theme of development, with the understanding that these are essential elements of the challenge of sustainable development in Africa and of eradicating poverty.
The bi-regional group of senior officials will prepare a report for assessment at ministerial level of the viability of taking further action in this area.
The last part of the action plan concerns the monitoring mechanisms.
The summit was the first encounter at the highest political level between Africa and the countries of the EU.
It will add a new strategic and global dimension to the existing relationship between Africa and Europe and will bring that relationship to the same level as that we already have with Asia and Latin America.
The EU has a comparative advantage in regional integration that Africa can benefit from, and we will ensure it benefits from it in the coming years, when the organisation of regional economic cooperation will dominate the agenda in Africa.
The summit provided an opportunity for useful discussions on debt and other bilateral problems.
It is regrettable that the civil society forum could not take place in Cairo but representatives of the forum were received in Cairo in the margins of the summit.
The follow-up to the summit should enable the EU to round off its existing relationship with Africa with a high-level relationship covering, in particular, a continental approach to political and security questions as well as economic issues.
With the new EU-ACP Convention being successfully concluded a few months ago and with the EU-South Africa cooperation agreement now being implemented as planned, we have two very important additions to the MEDA cooperation and the Barcelona process.
This means that we have not only the perspective of this Cairo summit but also a well-established basis to continue, widen and improve our daily work.
The final Cairo plan of action is an excellent document if we can now turn words and good intentions into concrete actions.
The top priority of regional cooperation and integration should have strong political benefits as well as trade ones.
Many of these countries will need both time and financial help to compete in the world market, but these countries must understand there is no other option in this new era of globalisation.
The OAU must be given international support to continue its work and the peace initiatives must come from the African countries themselves.
Where peace is achieved, help must be given for demobilisation and reintegration, and the use of child soldiers below the age of 18 must be banned.
Ethnic cleansing has been the horror of the last 25 years, and religious wars destroy the very fabric of a country.
This summit was a start but much has to be done to turn words into reality, and we, Members of this House, must be part of that new world.
I would like to concentrate on my view that poverty eradication in Africa must begin with children and the realisation of children' s rights.
The Cairo summit will be followed up by another forum in Dakar on basic education.
Therefore, we need to ensure that girls in particular have equal access at least to educational advantage.
The EU should put its political will behind universal primary education by the year 2015.
Julius Nyrere, one of Africa' s most famous teachers, in those post-independence, optimistic days, said education is not a way of escaping poverty, it is a way of fighting it.
Some of you may be aware that Julius Nyrere spent his spare time translating Shakespeare into Swahili.
The benefits for us all will be seen in increased child life expectancy, cuts in population growth and improvements in farm production.
The purpose of the summit was to open a dialogue between the EU and African countries.
I believe that the final document will prove to be an important reference point in connection with further cooperation between the EU and Africa.
This is due firstly to the fact that the document in itself constitutes an important signal about increased cooperation between the EU and Africa and about the fact that we have not forgotten Africa, and secondly to the document' s emphasis upon the interrelatedness of democracy, politics and economics and upon the fact that Africa' s integration and development should not, therefore, be seen in divided and piecemeal terms but as integral parts of a single whole.
On the contrary, we affirm the political need to restore balance in the relations between African and the European Union.
After having plundered the natural resources of Africa very widely, and in fact continuing to do so, we must cancel our historical debt to them by cancelling their current debt to our banks.
This would enable us to pursue relations on a sounder basis.
We are asking African countries to respect democratic principles, but we are perpetuating antidemocratic practices in order to guarantee our own financial interests, in the style of Elf or Total, in a number of countries.
For how can one expect a country in which a quarter of its young people are dying from AIDS every year to have a booming economy?
I even think that it was the difficulties along the way that led to the idea that the event should be held in the first place, orthe formal meeting and the group photo, and not what could and should result from it, with a view to establishing a strategy for this partnership on a new footing.
It is obvious that with this kind of outlook and in the light of the enormous problems and shortfalls facing most African countries in terms of the economy, the environment, health, infrastructure, conflict resolution and poverty, amongst others, it is difficult, if not impossible, to cement a genuine partnership which is effective and lasting.
The result was famine in Ethiopia, Algeria' s agriculture destroyed, not to mention Guinea under Sékou Touré.
The result was a permanent situation of coup d' état, even in the Ivory Coast.
All in all, from Socialist Africa to ultraliberal Africa, from the European Development Fund to the World Bank, from the summits in Bujumbura, Addis-Ababa, Nairobi, Casablanca, and now, on 3 April, Cairo, it is always the same assessment, the same threesome of poverty, epidemic and massacre.
Even so, on 4 January, the UN found the final solution, or the miracle cure: a proportion of the 800 million Africans would have to emigrate.
The logical thing to do today is to apply to Africa what has worked elsewhere, what has worked wonders in our countries, in the United States, in Europe, the solution which in our countries created heavy industry, agriculture, the textile industry, the solution which in our countries created growth and sustainable development.
This is a great project, Mr President, on the scale of humanity as a whole, and humanity needs both Africans and Europeans.
Mr President, the European Union has over the past 25 years invested a great deal of time and effort in development and cooperation.
At the same time, Africa needs sound budget management combined with effective social policy, good education policy and sound health care.
If the Africa Summit in Cairo has led to this kind of realism, then we have created more than just a good atmosphere and we are probably on the right track.
Mr President, the recent Euro-African Summit has given rise to concern, even vexation, but at the same time, it has also given rise to satisfaction and hope.
There was vexation on discovering that certain NGO meetings - the fora of civil society - which should have taken place in Cairo, sponsored by the European Commission itself, could not take place because of communication problems or the veto, still unclarified, of some part or other of the organisation of the Summit.
However, I said at the beginning that there were also positive aspects to this Cairo Summit which were cause for satisfaction and hope.
There was satisfaction at the fact that the conference was able to take place at all - which in itself is a great thing - and we should therefore congratulate the Portuguese Presidency and Commissioner Nielson, whose efforts helped to overcome the difficulties, intrigues and lazy defeatism of many people who assumed that this summit would be suspended, although it was going to fill an unjustifiable vacuum in the external relations of the European Union.
However, a Summit of this type should be an important source of hope, especially if it is not an isolated event but a first step in a process which we must set to work on immediately, in the expectation, furthermore, that relations between the European Union and Africa are going to change shape.
I am not impressed by the current pattern of African partners requesting aid in order to resolve their problems, as a result of which the European partners merely grant a part of that aid and little more.
Mr President, taking this approach, we will vote in favour of the good resolution with which this debate will conclude.
The document is also signed by countries where human rights are being violated on a massive scale, where women are discriminated against, where the little funding that is available is used to massacre other population groups and where corruption has taken on almost ineradicable proportions.
Mr President, the first EU-Africa summit was an important event and had a great deal of potential for taking meaningful steps to reduce the marginalisation of African countries.
Firstly, neither the European Parliament nor the EU-ACP Joint Assembly was invited to participate in the summit.
Secondly, it is very sad that civil society was not able to have a greater input into the meeting.
The NGOs from the EU and African countries took this summit very seriously and it was a missed opportunity not to engage in more meaningful dialogue with them.
Civil society has a key role to play in Africa' s development process.
What we have is a plan full of warm words and good intentions but short on firm commitments, in particular on trade issues.
While it is nice to recall the EU' s important decision to grant duty-free access for essentially all products, it would have been even more significant to have gone beyond the famous "essentially all" to include those products of real importance to the poorest countries, such as agricultural goods.
A majority of African countries are overwhelmingly dependent on just one or two commodities for the bulk of their foreign exchange earnings.
Mr President, wanting to achieve relations on the basis of partnership between the old continent and Africa means first of all putting a halt to the present system which operates to benefit the great powers and the corrupt elite of the south.
The continent of Africa is ravaged by epidemics such as the AIDS epidemic and by wars that are conspicuous, or sometimes forgotten.
The result is there is never enough fish and there are increasing numbers of people fighting over the leftovers.
In all its negotiations, the European Union should also demand fighting against corruption, certainly, and for democracy but, in return, African countries can also demand that the friends of Le Pen, Haider and Martinez should stop making regular racist attacks on their populations resident in Europe.
Finally, Mr President, Europe too made its wealth from colonialism and slavery.
Europe thus has a moral debt towards Africa.
But how much more credible would words such as democracy and the interest of the people have been if those people had actually been represented.
In that sense, Cairo was not a Euro-African Summit but more like a summit of élites.
It is also significant insofar as its conclusions could not have been more feeble.
It has been noted that it had been prepared hurriedly, as a cosmetic exercise, without taking responsibility for the past and without preparing comprehensive and solid programmes on the future of relations between the European Union and Africa.
It is truly illogical to lament the constant instability and warfare, when there is a real battle for power and control of resources in Africa which, in turn, increases the cycle of poverty and sends waves of immigrants towards Europe.
It does not help matters if, instead of attending working meetings, one prefers to talk to Gadaffi for 10 minutes.
I think that we, the European Parliament, must continue to denounce these national solo efforts and increase the responsibility of Member States' governments.
It has been stated that we want to make a large contribution and take part in a much more far-reaching debt burden initiative, provided we can link this in with social development.
I hope that our budget for 2001 - and the Commissioner is only too aware how heavy this weighs on me, because I am the budget rapporteur for that component - will also accommodate some of these promises.
If 45 million children in Africa have never seen a schoolroom before and if we managed to double the education budget next year - not the budget as a whole but if we simply shifted some figures around - then this would be a welcome bonus.
However, as a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I must express my reservations at the lack of support from the European Parliament.
I also condemn the fact that Agenda 2000 did not tackle the issue of the future responsibilities of the European Union towards developing countries.
Parliament has tried to tackle this issue several times in the past, apparently without ever achieving tangible results.
Mr President, ordinary people in most African countries are poorer today than when their countries became independent.
Such desperate people cannot think of democracy and human rights in the way we do from our houses and leafy suburbs in the West.
We here in this Assembly offer these people open and free access to our EU markets.
Well, let it be said that there were even problems in including references to the ACP group in the final conclusions.
Firstly, because this was seen as the first major rapprochement between Africa and Europe and not all Africa' s countries are ACP countries.
There was therefore a problem in accommodating within one summit, which I repeat was a summit of equals, not a summit of parties of a different status, an institution which the other co-sponsoring organisation did not have.
When we prepare the next summit, the 2003 summit, we will certainly look at ways of strengthening the European Parliament' s participation in a framework that must take account of the other party, given that the other party exists.
Another important point is debt.
I would remind you of the commitment given by Member States in relation to the world' s highly indebted poor countries to reduce and even cancel their debt, not forgetting the Union' s EUR 1 000 million contribution to this programme.
It is the first time that the European Union has agreed to discuss the problem of their indebtedness with all the African countries, in an institutional framework outside the international financial organisations.
The African countries considered this to be one of the most important milestones of this summit.
I should tell you that the aim of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union was to do something for Africa, not just because we had done something for other continents or regions, such as Latin America and Asia, but also because other countries or groups of countries, such as the United States, Japan and even China had begun to do so before us.
We are working to review the Mediterranean strategy, to produce a rigorous draft of the Euro-Mediterranean Charter for Peace and Stability and also to review the MEDA II regulation.
We held the Mediterranean Forum in Funchal and we will be holding an informal ministerial meeting in Lisbon on the Barcelona Process, specifically to determine its good and bad points, on what needs to be improved and to prepare the summit which will be held under the French Presidency.
Of course, we did not resolve all the problems of the African continent overnight, but a step needed to be taken, a step towards including Africa in the European agenda.
Mrs Kinnock mentioned the forthcoming meeting in Dakar on basic education.
As part of our preparations for that meeting I have gone through the bulk of what we are doing on primary education in Africa and I am happy to say that I am in a position to express something positive about what I have seen in the Commission.
This is not to say that we could not do more but it is much better than the picture in general.
In absolute terms, our focusing on Kosovo and other activities has not meant a reduction in what we actually do in Africa.
In relative terms this is the case, but we have been able to shield Africa from direct reductions in the volume of what we are doing.
If we look at total official development assistance, globally it has in fact decreased.
Against that background it is a privilege to represent the European Union internationally in this field because we have not been part of that downward trend.
This Parliament, our budget, and our activities stand out as a sort of corrective measure to the global trend.
The EUR 680 million, which is our contribution as a donor, not as a creditor, will all be directed to the African Development Bank earmarked in the special trust fund in the HIPC initiative in order to bail out Africa and make it possible for the African Development Bank to continue servicing the poor countries in Africa.
We are doing quite a lot and the problem now is to what extent the G7 countries - who started up the HIPC II initiative in Cologne last year - will deliver, not just as donors but in their more narrowly defined role as creditors.
Mr Zimmerling mentioned the problem of Nigeria and getting money back.
This should be part of international economic governance.
It was of real importance that the Heads of State and Governments spent two days together.
They certainly developed quite well in those two days.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
External relations package The next item is the Commission communication on the external relations package.
Mr President, we discussed a number of issues in the Commission today, including the broad economic policy guidelines which have been the subject of a statement by my colleague Commissioner Solbes elsewhere in Parliament during the course of the afternoon.
Briefly though, I will first of all mention our communication on election observation and assistance, which we will now be publishing and which I will look forward to discussing with Parliament over the coming weeks and months.
We have spent EUR 150 million on this important activity.
It is now clearly a first- pillar activity following the adoption of the regulations, which provide a legal basis for human rights and democratisation activity.
As Members of Parliament will recognise, the communication invites both Parliament and the Council to work with us on a more coordinated approach.
It suggests that we need greater coherence in what we are doing and I am looking forward to hearing the views of Members of Parliament on the document, which I hope they will regard as an important and useful contribution to a debate which is going to become more important, not less important, over the coming years.
It is the rapid reaction facility, which we have been discussing for some time and on which we have come to some conclusions.
My colleague, Commissioner Nielson, was talking a moment or two ago about the EU-African summit in Cairo just over a week ago.
It is true that the President of the Commission, my colleagues Pascal Lamy and Poul Nielson and myself were all confronted during that summit with a litany of complaints about the slow delivery of European Union assistance.
But the traditional legislative approach to Community business is also sometime ill-suited to the fast changing realities in external relations.
This is particularly true for conflict prevention and it is particularly true for crisis management efforts.
We will present our proposals in the next few weeks.
The rapid reaction facility is something that in our judgement we can do fairly quickly if we have the support of Parliament and if we have the support of the Council.
I hope that support will be forthcoming because we have time to lose.
The Helsinki European Council called on us, in the context of development of the Union's crisis management structures within the ESDP, to set up a mechanism for rapid reaction.
Inertia is only part of our problem today.
The rapid reaction facility responds to these needs.
It is intended to allow us to draw without delay on existing Community resources and expertise to address specific crisis situations, complementing the valuable work already undertaken by ECHO in the humanitarian field.
Fourth, the management of the rapid reaction facility will be the responsibility of a small team, the crisis coordination unit in the Directorate-General for External Relations.
The added value of the rapid reaction facility is speed and flexibility in Community intervention in crisis situations.
It will help us to overcome procedural hurdles which have slowed us down in the past and it will allow for the combination of several instruments within a single action and for a single purpose.
It will allow us to react in time and if necessary, to take the initiative in urgent circumstances.
If it needs to be pursued beyond the immediate time frame of the crisis situation, it should be taken over as soon as practicable by the regular geographic or thematic Community instrument most suited to manage it in the longer term.
That is why the Commission proposes a rather modest budget allocation for the rapid reaction facility: about EUR 30 million for this year and EUR 40 million for subsequent years.
My own favourite economist and guru, Jane Jacobs, points out that everything is disappointing in practice.
I think Members of this House will have sometimes been frustrated to discover that, on the basis of European Union funding, people from other countries, even North America, and some other countries are getting all the credit and none is coming to the European taxpayer who pays for all these things.
Image is important and we have addressed it in this document.
Another factor is the participation of the European Union under the umbrella of other international actors.
Anybody who thinks that we do not need one should just try talking to our officials who were operating pillar 4 in UNMIK in Kosovo.
It is one of the oldest saws in the book that it is incomparably more expensive to fight a war than to keep the peace.
Very often what is required to keep the peace or to prevent a crisis is not just doing things generously but doing them quickly and generously.
We are currently in the middle of a conciliation procedure for the late payment directive, in other words, this is not just a problem in external relations; it is also a problem within Europe.
The idea is that the late payment directive could also be applied in these areas.
Firstly, although I recognise that he wants to keep the budget small and use existing instruments, is he satisfied that the budget in category 4 is sufficient for the special rapid reaction unit to be able to carry out its objectives over the course of a financial year?
The High Representative and his colleagues in the secretariat are bending their best efforts to try to achieve that at the moment.
We have had problems which should not have arisen because we have not always known in sufficient detail exactly what Member States, as well as the European Commission, are up to.
So we need to work more closely and in a more coordinated way.
On the relationship between the rapid reaction facility and the special envoys who are, of course, responsible to the Council - even though we are responsible for the budget - we will want to work closely with them.
There are some in particular whose activities bear on the sort of things we might find ourselves wanting to support through the rapid reaction facility, like the work being done by one of our special envoys in the Great Lakes region in Africa.
I do not think that the sums of money that we are talking about are going to give us budgetary problems.
We can manage EUR 30 or 40 million.
The appalling floods in Mozambique were a classic case for intervention by ECHO as a humanitarian intervention.
It is very difficult to compartmentalise these crises.
But the honourable Member is entirely right to say that Mozambique was a demonstration of the extent to which the various forms of intervention are interwoven and that it is very difficult to make precise categories out of different forms of support.
The question of coherence is very important.
But one has to bear in mind two important facts about ECHO.
I very much hope that, without breaking down some important distinctions, we can ensure that the Community's various instruments, which involve the expenditure of quite substantial amounts of assistance, are moving together in the same direction.
The problems in the Great Lakes region cover a number of countries.
It would be useful if you could link these problems on a regional basis and act from that point.
I believe that we should be looking much more constructively at regional solutions in a lot of other areas as well, not least some of our trade relationships with other countries.
This facility has to be used not just on a bilateral basis but in helping groups of countries with what are often common political problems, as well as environmental and other problems.
We have a situation in Ethiopia where we knew for the past three years that there was a famine coming.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation and myself have time and time again warned ECHO and the Commission that something should be done about this.
I feel rather strongly that we have managed over the years, despite problems from time to time, to increase our ability to get food and other assistance to people in the most appallingly difficult circumstances.
We have managed to increase our ability to deliver humanitarian assistance.
There is a food crisis in the Horn of Africa.
So I hope I catch your eye tomorrow in the debate and make some of these points.
However, I have to say that I was dealing with these problems 13 or 14 years ago and, alas, much less has happened to the good than one would have liked.
Therefore, we will be working from seven until eight.
The first part, Questions to the Commission, will last 30 minutes.
We will dedicate 10 minutes to each Commissioner, instead of the usual 20 minutes.
The Commission shares the view that its participation in meetings of the Council and all its bodies is part of the EU acquis and an essential element of the European Union institutional framework.
Excluding the Commission from work in this area would be tantamount to accepting the emergence of a fourth pillar in the Treaty, contrary to the Helsinki conclusions.
But although the Commission has a right to attend all working structures in the Council, it does not have an obligation to do so.
In cases like these, I think that it is not only natural but in everyone's interests that the Commission should participate in the meeting in order to contribute to the overall coherence and effectiveness of European Union policies and actions.
May I ask him to confirm that the Commission's choice not to participate in certain meetings will be taken, as he put it, on a 'meeting by meeting' basis, not a structure by structure basis, depending on what is being discussed.
The question is whether the choice is meeting by meeting or structure by structure and we have made it gently and courteously but firmly clear what our view is of the matter.
Secondly, has the Commission drawn any conclusions as to the security implications of its participation in the military committee?
Thank you very much, Mr Patten.
Question No 32 by (H-0293/00): Subject: Ability of dialysis-dependent people to travel in the EU The free movement of Member States' citizens in the EU is a fundamental right.
In order to ease the situation of temporarily resident dialysis patients and rectify the possible lack of clarity in the definition of emergency treatment, the Member States have agreed on special rules which are laid down in Decision No 163 of the Administrative Commission of the European Communities on Social Security for Migrant Workers of 31 May 1996.
It is not therefore up to the Commission to intervene here and to influence national rules on the modus operandi of hospitals and clinics in the Member States.
However, if such an application is submitted, it will be examined in accordance with the procedure provided for in Regulation No 2082/92 on certificates of special character for agricultural products and foodstuffs.
We must endeavour to allay this concern, and I therefore feel, should the manufacturers of a Member State so request, of course, that within the White Paper on food safety and in other ways, the Commission should consider protecting chocolate which is produced according to traditional methods without additional vegetable oil as a high quality European product, and refuse to set the lowest level as the standard, for this may be permitted by the market, but it is not acceptable in terms of the quality of the produce and the lives of our consumers.
Mr President, Mr Napoletano, as I said, no chocolate producer has yet demonstrated any interest in this form of protection.
However, in order to clarify matters somewhat as you have requested, I should point out to you that the Regulation which I quoted makes provision for two possible forms of legal protection for names.
The Commissioner actually answered my question in the second part of his answer.
We take note of your statement in favour of good chocolate, Mrs Banotti.
Question No 35 by (H-0307/00): Subject: Children's rights Given the reports of sexual abuse, of child prostitution and the high number of young children living on the streets of the candidate countries from Eastern Europe, what measures are being taken by the Commission to ensure within the framework of the present accession negotiations, that children's rights and child protection are a priority and that the welfare of children is taken into account when preparing these countries for future membership of the European Union?
This is not a problem specific to the candidate countries of the European Union.
It is quite clearly a development problem, a problem which stems from poverty, a problem which stems from social neglect and, I believe, a problem which stems from the indifference or lack of decisiveness in our societies to really do something to fight this terrible manifestation of child abuse.
Allow me to tell you what we can do within the framework of accession negotiations.
The most important of these is the joint action to fight the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, on which a decision was reached on 24 February 1997.
Programmes such as PHARE and MEDA and the relevant specific programmes relating to justice and internal affairs such as GROTIUS, STOP, ODYSSEUS and FALCONE also offer the opportunity to support countries seeking to join the Union in this respect and support is indeed given.
The following programmes are relevant to child protection: first the DAPHNE programme approved on 24 January 2000.
The whole problem could not have arisen and would not exist were there no demand for this horrendous supply in our rich societies, including in the Member States of the European Union.
The fact that something has been broadcast on the BBC does not automatically mean that it is true.
It is therefore difficult for me to answer your specific question as to whether children are being bred in Romania for the purpose of sexual abuse with a clear yes or no.
What I can say is that, as Parliament' s hearing on the subject of children in Romania has demonstrated over recent weeks in Brussels, the Commission is doing absolutely everything in its power to improve the lot of children in Romania.
I assure the honourable Member that we are doing far more than is our duty and, in fact, far more that what is actually politically permissible within the framework of accession negotiations.
I do, however, admit that we are doing so because, in my view, it is also a human rights issue which must be considered in accordance with the political criteria governing accession.
In the area of police cooperation, the Commission wishes to remind honourable Members that in 1996 Europol was given a mandate by the Council to combat trafficking in human beings, with the basic aim of ensuring that all networks of traffickers working in Europe would be closed down.
Finally, the Commission also wishes to emphasise that through the STOP and Daphne programmes, it has already funded numerous cooperation and training projects in the area of combating trafficking in human beings, specifically against the trafficking of women for sexual exploitation, and through these programmes has brought together the relevant bodies, namely police and judicial authorities, non-governmental organisations and social services.
The Commission intends in the course of 2000 to present the European Parliament with a new legal basis for the STOP programme for the period 2001-2005.
Under this new legal basis for STOP, we will also be able to fund projects for combating trafficking in human beings submitted by non-governmental organisations and by public authorities from the applicant countries themselves.
Lastly, concerning the specific situation in Albania, the Commission acknowledges that networks trafficking in human beings originating in the Balkans represent a major concern, due to the increasing number of cases being seen in European countries.
We therefore acknowledge the fact that under the Stability Pact for the Balkans, priority must be given to combating trafficking in human beings.
I can even answer the honourable Member by saying that a group of experts is already working on identifying the best actions for combating the networks of traffickers in human beings and that I myself had an opportunity recently, on a mission to Greece, to exchange ideas with the Greek Minister for Home Affairs, in order enlist the cooperation of his government in establishing these actions and priorities, bearing in mind the action that Greece is already developing bilaterally on the trafficking of human beings in the Balkans.
In fact, establishing normal economic and social conditions throughout the Balkans is an essential instrument in combating social exclusion and thus combating trafficking in human beings.
In any event, the Commission acknowledges that there are no completely reliable statistics on the volume of the annual traffic in human beings, and I can tell you that we have been working very hard on improving the coordination and circulation of information between the Member States' police forces and Europol so that we have a more accurate and realistic picture of the size of the problem.
With regard to campaigns, I must tell the honourable Member that the Commission' s assessment is that the prevention campaigns have been successful in the sense that they have significantly not only raised awareness of the risks and the dangers of trafficking in human beings in the countries of origin, but they have also enjoyed the cooperation and commitment of the police and judicial authorities in the applicant countries.
Therefore, in application of the said recommendations, we will allow just one supplementary question per subject and only 30 seconds, which may extend to 35, but no more, in order to reformulate the questions.
Mr President, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, reconstruction in Kosovo and the stabilisation of South-Eastern Europe are among the most important tasks facing the European Union over the next few years.
The resolution on Agenda 2000 was taken, I would remind you, on the same day that the war in Kosovo broke out.
In the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives concluded between Parliament, the Council and the Commission in May 1999, Parliament and the Council decided to call on the Commission, in view of developments in the Balkans, to submit the necessary budgetary proposals, if necessary in the form of a proposal to revise the financial perspectives.
In the external aid area, on the other hand, the figures in the financial perspectives would have resulted in a reduction in expenditure next year in comparison with this year and I think that everyone is agreed that this does not really reflect the actual situation and actual requirements.
The Commission therefore decided to propose a redeployment of EUR 300 billion to the budgetary authority so that the increase in agricultural expenditure would be correspondingly lower.
All of this demonstrates that Agenda 2000 has been nothing but a great firework display.
Mr Patten and Mr Nielson have come to the conclusion that a total of EUR 1.6 billion could be redeployed in the external aid area for south-eastern Europe and I think that we really must acknowledge that this step has been taken.
I should also point out that the Commission will propose that even the expenditure budgeted for promoting and developing the countryside be increased to its ceiling next year.
Question No 38 by (H-0287/00): Subject: Structural measures to overcome delays in payments The EU budget is failing in that commitment authorisations are not being adequately matched by payments.
Questions to Mr Kinnock Mr President, the Commission is doing its utmost to settle proper payment applications within 60 days.
The Commission submitted a working paper to the budgetary authority last year in which it made a comprehensive analysis of developments, broken down by sector and underlying factors, and suggested remedies.
However, the Commission is unable to subscribe to the honourable Member' s view that delays in implementing Community projects robs them of any legitimate purpose; on the contrary.
This applied to a sum of around EUR 1 billion in 1999.
The Commission has discussed precisely this today as part of the debate on the revision of the financial regulation and I can assure you that we intend to change the rules in order to tighten up the time scale.
Thank you very much, Mrs Schreyer.
In his question the honourable Member is probably referring to actions 57 and 58 of the Reform Strategy Action Plan which, amongst other things, specifies commitment to making proposals for the establishment of an interinstitutional disciplinary board.
The Commission will be presenting detailed proposals for the modernisation of disciplinary procedures and related arrangements in a consultative document which is scheduled for publication in October.
Consultation on those proposals is a legal requirement and the views of Parliament and Member States, as well as those of the staff, will naturally be taken into account on all relevant matters, including the possible use of external expertise on the interinstitutional disciplinary board.
So far as whistle-blowing is concerned, and as the honourable Member may know, we will be putting forward very comprehensive proposals for radical change in current arrangements which will, when they are implemented - hopefully with the assistance of this Parliament as a legislature - provide the European Union institutions with the best, fairest and most effective system for ensuring that the duty of officials to report their suspicions of wrong-doing will be fully accessible and made totally effective.
Question No 41 by (H-0342/00): Subject: Institutional reform At present, 'whistle-blowing' means that a member of the Commission staff has to breach Articles 12 and 17 of the Staff Regulations, accordingly, if someone does come forward as a whistle-blower, he/she will almost certainly be disciplined.
Point 47 of your action plan makes reference to this situation but offers no remedy for it.
It follows that Articles 12 and 17 of the Staff Regulations do not prevent staff from reporting wrong-doing either within the Commission or to OLAF.
In the White Paper on reform and elsewhere, the Commission has made direct commitments to reforms which will further improve rules related to the reporting of suspected wrong-doing.
The Commission will present detailed proposals in a document scheduled for October of this year.
Firstly, the development of the proposals relating to whistle-blowing will take full account of best practice in several of the Member States.
The Commission is acutely aware of the provision long established in Nordic democracies, recently developed also in the Public Disclosure Act in the United Kingdom, and several other comparable pieces of legislation.
As far as Mr van Buitenen is concerned, he took up employment on 1 April in the Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection in Luxembourg in a very responsible job, as the House would expect.
We thank Vice-President Kinnock for his replies.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 44 to 48 lapse.
Question No 49 by (H-0284/00): Subject: Møllergårdens Vivaldi - a Shetland pony The Committee on Petitions decided on 15 May 1997 to examine a case concerning the Shetland pony, Møllergårdens Vivaldi, from Denmark, which the Swedish authorities refused to register as a stallion in Sweden.
The dispute between what I might describe as a courageous private breeder from one Member State and a breeding association in another Member State, reflects shortcomings in implementation by Member States of both the spirit and letter of related Community law, in particular Directive 90/427 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions governing intra-Community trade in Equidae.
However, in the light of new information, the Commission undertakes to take up the case again and to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission, should this be required.
It is a matter costing an incredible amount of money.
It is not really the role of the Commission to develop this issue further but it is doing so in the manner I have indicated in an effort to assist the private breeder who - I perfectly agree with you - should not be compelled to have to go through these steps to seek a result in this particular issue.
As I have indicated, in the light of new information, the Commission undertakes to take up this case again and, if necessary, to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission, should this be required.
We had group meetings; I was watching the screen and you jumped from Question 41 to 49.
Mrs McKenna, today' s Question Time has been ratified by the plenary in this House.
I am therefore very sorry that we now have to conclude Question Time.
Since the time allotted to questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 50 to 93 will be replied to in writing.
There had been no meeting of the Association Council between Turkey and the Union for three years and nor had there been any meeting of this kind after the deliberations and the criteria laid down in Helsinki.
Hence the importance of holding the screening procedure that is being prepared and the importance of Turkey' s commitment to incorporating the body of Community legislation and also to respecting the Copenhagen criteria.
In our political dialogue with the Turkish delegation, we were able not only to assess the progress made, but also to comment on what we felt were shortcomings at institutional and judicial level and also in terms of the actual implementation of economic policies.
This progress in the bilateral relationship will have considerable influence on progress on this issue in the future, on the relationship between the two countries and will certainly contribute, as will these negotiations between the European Union and Turkey, to establishing a favourable framework and environment for a solution to the problem of Cyprus.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome today' s debate as an opportunity to take stock, four months after the Helsinki summit and in the run up to the Association Council which the President-in-Office has already spoken about.
The Copenhagen political criteria concern democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities.
The main element in this strategy of rapprochement will be the accession partnership which is currently being prepared and which will set out the short- and medium-term priorities which Turkey must meet, in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria, in the political, economic and Community acquis areas.
We plan to submit the first accession partnership in the autumn of this year.
For example, 18 members of the pro-Kurdish HADEP Party were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison and three leading members of HADEP were taken into custody but then released shortly afterwards.
The three mayors who support HADEP were released after the EU troika had expressed its serious concerns to the Turkish Government.
The Commission seriously regrets that Akin Birdal, an advocate of the peaceful solution of conflict and human rights, has been thrown into jail once again.
I hope that Turkey can cultivate social dialogue and an active labour market policy still further in order to underpin the adjustment process.
Of course I shall continue to keep you informed of all aspects of these new endeavours.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, your statements have reinforced a belief and an impression I have.
The public and private sector spokesmen we recently met in Turkey all readily agreed on this.
My feeling is that certain representatives of the Turkish people are discovering, as a result of December' s decision, that accession to the Union will mean not only drastic reform of their institutions, but also radical changes in mindsets.
This is reflected in the distrust shown, as the Commissioner has just reported, towards European institutions in general and the representatives of the European Parliament in particular.
Firstly, there was the refusal of the request to visit Leyla Zana, which resulted in the postponement of the meeting of the joint European Union-Turkey Parliamentary Committee scheduled for 22 and 23 February.
Then, on the same day, at a time when your rapporteur was in Ankara, there was the arrest of three Kurdish mayors from the south-eastern region.
Lastly, on 28 March, there was the arrest and reimprisonment of Akin Birdal, President of the Turkish Association for the Defence of Human Rights, at a time when a delegation from this Parliament was visiting Turkey.
This is what Parliament will once again underline in the resolution, which is to be submitted for the approval of the Members next Thursday, urging the Turkish Government and the political parties of Turkey to turn to good account the constitutional review that is currently in progress in order to implement pressing reforms, in line with the Helsinki Agreements, that will enable the Turkish State to guarantee the democratic rights that we consider essential.
The ball is in Turkey' s court.
It is up to Turkey to decide whether the first obstacles encountered on this new road are to prove insurmountable or not.
We MEPs are particularly pleased because most of us - and this cut across all Groups in the House - expressed our scepticism as to whether the Helsinki resolution was the right resolution at the time.
He has spoken of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of minorities as three basic elements in the expectations which the European Union, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament have of Turkey and which they have formulated.
Four months after Helsinki, Commissioner, I can say on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists that we fully subscribe to your view that the climate surrounding relations has improved but no progress has been made on the three points which you listed.
We in the European Parliament expect far greater efforts than those made so far and we are assuming that what we are saying in this debate here will not go unheeded.
Mr President, when Turkey joins the European Union the impact and the benefits will be considerable.
The EU will then have to adjust, and in a welcoming way.
The arrest and imprisonment of HADEP leaders like Sakharov prize-winner Leyla Zana and human rights campaigner Akin Birdal is an impediment to Turkey's progress to the EU.
The former president of the Turkish human rights association, Akin Birdal, is again under arrest, despite the fact that he requires medical care.
Unfortunately, he must serve another six months of a one-year sentence.
We realise that the measures needed to guarantee the permanent democratisation of Turkish society cannot be introduced overnight.
However, a number of small steps are urgently needed in order to demonstrate that Turkey is prepared to take the path trodden by Spain, Portugal and Greece.
I should like to list a few examples.
Then the former and present leaders of HADEP, Murat Bozlak and Ahmet Turan Demir, were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison together with 18 other members of HADEP.
Having been there, my personal impression is that the people are longing for peace and democracy.
Mr President, all of us who have visited Turkey recently realise that the picture is very complex.
There is a very lively debate in the country.
That is what is working against democratic fighters such as Akin Birdal.
But we also see the reformists who know very well what has to be done according to the Copenhagen criteria.
One party leader said to us that at least 65 articles of the constitution and penal code had to be changed.
The first was that nothing will prevail without a strong civil society in Turkey.
People we met from civil society also said they appreciated the help from the European Union, but that some of it was slow.
Mr President, the question of whether or not Turkey belongs to Europe is not primarily a geographical issue, nor is it primarily an economic one.
The deciding factor, however, will be whether or not Turkey will subscribe to a European set of values in which human rights, democracy and the protection of minorities are guaranteed.
The political solution to the Kurdish issue would not only liberate the Kurds, it would also take a heavy weight from Turkey' s shoulders.
Whether or not Turkey will join may therefore depend largely on how it will fare in matters pertaining to human rights, democracy and the protection of minorities.
I should like to point out that in Helsinki, Greece withdrew its reservations and Turkey became a candidate country.
I just wonder who have they been trying to liberate for the last 25 years, and from whom?
The structures are superb, we can all agree on that.
The Turks tell us they need time, they need a great deal of time, because this reform can only be achieved one step at a time.
I told you that numerous fellow Members here in this very House, in the European Parliament, were prepared to allow as much time as they needed, 200 years, 400 years, even more.
But I belong to a Group which enthusiastically helped Turkey to achieve candidate status, not just so that Turkey could be a candidate but to give Turkey a real chance to become a member and start negotiations.
The unequivocal shortcomings in this area contrast with statements by Prime Minister Ecevit to the effect that Turkey may be ready to start accession negotiations in 2004.
However, one has the impression that anti-European forces within the army and the administration are behind the recent arrests and the new offensive against the PKK in northern Iraq in order to prevent Turkey from moving closer to Europe.
This demonstrates in retrospect that the concessions made to Turkey in Helsinki were perhaps premature and that the strategy towards this country, which is so important to western security, needs to be reviewed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have visited Turkey three times in the last six months, once before and twice after the Helsinki resolution.
What Ecevit said to us was that there were several Kurdish dialects and that he could even imagine Kurdish being used as an official language in Turkey under certain conditions.
My last point is this: of course we are also aware in this House that the question of Turkey, including its relations with Greece, is bound up with the Cyprus issue.
Turkey will not be admitted to the European Union without the European Parliament' s approval.
Turkey has merely been recognised as a candidate.
In fact, as long ago as 1963, the Ankara Agreement established the possibility that Turkey might join the European Union, with the association agreement to evolve through an initial stage, a transitional stage and a final stage.
The Commission is involved in bilateral discussions with Turkey in order to provide it with information on the acquis communautaire.
However, something that can be acknowledged today is that, contrary to what used to happen in crisis situations, when Turkey was always tempted to use military power or to use extremist internal forces, thanks to the guidelines and the frameworks that were laid down in Helsinki, this strategy has contributed in Turkey to the consolidation of pro-European forces, which will, of course, have to develop a completely pro-European programme in terms of constitutional reform, political changes and new legislation.
I have drawn the Turkish Government' s, the Turkish parties' and the Turkish parliament' s attention to the role of the European Parliament in ensuring that no political compromises are made with candidates during access negotiations and in Turkey' s preparations for access negotiations which contradict the Copenhagen criteria.
But I do know one thing and that is that a debate is currently taking place in Turkey of which we only hear a part, a debate which will decide on the fate of the country and, partly on the fate of Europe too.
The debate is closed.
It would, we hope, give us a new tough set of rules that would ensure that genetically modified crops and other GMO products are used throughout Europe in a safe and sensible way that ensures protection of the environment and guarantees the safety of public health.
The first and the most important is the issue of producer liability.
In other words, under the terms of the amendments, companies would be required to take out insurance to cover any possible damage to human health or the environment caused by GMOs and could be sued if their crops escaped and created super-wheats or contaminated organic crops or if GM crops were found to damage human health.
I hope that tomorrow my colleagues will renew their support, as they did at first reading, for the demands for strong new limits on the use of GMOs containing genes with resistance to antibiotics.
Tomorrow we may take a softer line, but nevertheless we want to see action in this area.
Other measures that I think we need - and on which I would seek the support of the Parliament tomorrow - include new measures to restrict the dangers of the cross-breeding of GMO plants with naturally occurring wild relatives.
Here we need to go to at least as far and perhaps beyond the measures agreed in the Bio-Safety Protocol in Montreal in January.
Not just the industry but also Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace have given their backing to various aspects of Parliament's report.
They have supported us in continuing to press the Council of Ministers to agree on new GMO rules on licensing as quickly as possible, to bring to an end the de facto moratorium on new GMO commercial approvals, which has been in operation since the Commission published its proposal almost two years ago.
That should give biotechnology companies and others involved in the industry a clear idea of the rules that they have adhere to and consequently a more transparent and predictable regime.
That can be only good for the future development of this new technology within the European Union.
At the same time, I would hope that our governments will be able to assure their consumers and their people that GMOs released into the environment anywhere in Europe will meet the much more stringent standards that we are fixing here in Parliament tomorrow and that the public concerns regarding the protection of human health and the environment from the dangers of GMO inventions have been properly addressed.
And I hope one of the significant non-legislative outcomes of this process will be a shift in the balance of power in the approval and control of GMO crops and food in favour of the public.
For the biotechnology industry that can only be to the good.
I even have mixed feelings about the announcements which we heard last week on the almost complete decoding of the human genome because I think that we do not yet have enough strict rules in the European Union on the application of biotechnology to human beings in this way.
I think it is a very competent piece of work, and I think some important improvements have been made to the common position.
If insurance cannot be taken out to cover such circumstances, then the risk in granting a licence is too great.
I hope we shall see the adoption of these amendments designed to tighten up on the common position.
Mr President, I would like to stress that this is a debate on procedural questions regarding the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, or GMOs.
Thirdly, we would welcome a streamlined procedure that offers security to both consumers and producers and, as far as we are concerned, better harmonisation throughout the European Union.
We, too, would like to congratulate the diligent rapporteur on this report.
Mr President, tomorrow' s vote will be a litmus test of Parliament' s responsibility and credibility.
This means that we shall be voting in favour of most, but not all, of the proposals in the Bowe report.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive on procedures for the authorisation of genetically modified organisms has been returned to this House for second reading, even though events since the first reading have done nothing but heighten the fears that we originally expressed.
On 11 February 1999, at first reading, we opposed this proposal since we considered that it in no way controlled the risks that GMOs pose to the environment and to animal and human health and that a straightforward application of the precautionary principle should have resulted if not in the definitive prohibition of the release of these organisms, at least in a moratorium lasting several years.
We are thus delighted that the Council has underlined this principle in the common position.
Both in the main body of the Directive itself, notably in Article 1, and in its application, the precautionary principle has been accorded an important role when it comes to weighing it up against economic interests.
I mainly have the restriction of the simplified procedure and the attention to GMO traceability in mind.
The biotechnology debate requires an integral ethical approach.
Mr President, this is a debate about plant research and plant protection from research.
It is a debate about the potential of GMOs for good and their potential for risk, and how you manage that risk.
But we must respond to public concern about the potential and unknown dangers to our environment, to our food chain and to our health.
Thirdly, we must build on the Montreal Protocol as far as the export of GMOs is concerned, and this should be done on the basis of mutual agreement and transparency.
Fourthly, as many Members have said, we must ensure liability; but it is a question of whether we need any greater liability than applies to other environmental risks.
Secondly, the commitment to international agreements.
Amendment No 1 refers to the Montreal Protocol and the need to defend biosafety and the consultation of and request for authorisation from non-EU countries for exports.
Thirdly, the civil liability clause, which is clearly necessary for those who are responsible for the release of these genetically modified organisms which may have effects on health or the environment.
In the short time available, I appeal to the Commission and, indeed, Parliament to urgently expedite the conclusions necessary to allay consumer fears concerning the public health, environmental and ethical aspects of a technology which has the potential to make a significant contribution to food production and public health.
An indication of the potential of genetic research to make a positive contribution to food production is demonstrated by the very recent announcement by Monsanto of a significant breakthrough on the genetic structure of rice, which is the staple food on which millions in the developing world depend and about which there is considerable concern with regard to the continuity of supply.
We totally agree with the line of thinking adopted in this report.
Lastly, the risks to the environment should be assessed via an annual cost-benefit analysis of these GMO releases, carried out in a transparent manner and extended to cover animal and plant health as well as public and private goods.
It is also important for provision to be made for the directive to be adjusted and amended in line with new developments resulting from the fast pace of change in biotechnology and its applications.
We must not overreact if we want this directive to promote and support such a promising sector.
If liability pertaining to gene food is not regulated now, suspicion among the public regarding this type of food will only grow.
Mr President, genetic engineering and biotechnology are the key technologies of the future.
If we in the EU hamper or even block the use of genetically modified organisms, we shall be manoeuvring ourselves into a backwater in this important area.
The Commission promised the introduction of horizontal legislation over ten years ago.
But even though we now have a White Paper, the actual legislation is some years away.
Thousands of people across Europe have chosen not to buy products containing GMOs because of the evidence of health and environmental damage.
The basis for meeting these new challenges has to be an efficient and transparent legislative framework.
Our role as European policymakers should be to provide for a balanced response to these new challenges.
We need a regulatory framework, based on safety and the precautionary principle which ensure a high level of protection for human health and environment.
At the same time, it has to allow society to benefit from the development of modern biotechnology.
Our European legislation on GMOs guarantees an individual and thorough risk assessment of each GMO product placed on the European market.
The sensitivity and complexity of the matter might explain why we are confronted with a total number of 52 amendments at second reading.
The Commission can accept in their entirety Amendments Nos 9, 17, 19, 29 and 47, which improve the quality and the clarity of the texts.
The Commission can also accept in principle Amendments Nos 1 to 4, 8, 11, 24, 35 to 38, 46, 48, 49 and 52.
Let me comment further on Amendment No 1 and Amendments Nos 13, 14 and 28, which all relate to the biosafety protocol and obligations for imports and exports of GMOs.
The European Community was one of the driving forces in the successful adoption of the Cartagena Protocol on biosafety in January.
The Commission therefore welcomes the spirit of Amendment No 1.
This refers to the need to submit the appropriate proposals for the implementation of the protocol when ratified - work has already begun.
However, the Commission cannot accept the inclusion of provisions on import and export obligations in the text of the directive.
We believe that the implications of the protocol on the overall European Union legislative framework have yet to be fully assessed.
Amendments Nos 13, 14 and 28 are therefore not acceptable in the present revision.
When I made my presentation to Parliament in the autumn I promised that I would make particular reference to GMOs in the White Paper on environmental liability.
The Commission did exactly that when adopting the White Paper this year.
The Commission is of the opinion that a horizontal approach is the most efficient way to guarantee a comprehensive responsibility regime for environmental damage.
This is also the best way to complement the existing horizontal system for product liability already covering GMOs.
I can therefore accept Amendments Nos 2, 36 and 46 in principle, as far as they refer to the Commission White Paper.
However, I cannot accept Amendments Nos 33, 40 and 45.
I am also fully aware of the political importance of certain other aspects raised by the proposed amendments.
The Commission cannot agree to a general ban of GMOs containing antibiotic resistance marker genes.
At the moment there is no scientific evidence that all GMOs of this type present adverse effects to human health and the environment.
Within these limits, Amendments Nos 11, 37, 48 and 52 are therefore acceptable in principle.
The Commission can also accept in principle Amendments Nos 3, 4, 8, 24 and 35 to the extent that they are in line with the logic of the texts and fit within the overall legislative framework.
The Commission can therefore agree to a recital concerning socio-economic aspects which refers to the reporting obligation of the Commission.
The Commission welcomes Amendments Nos 38 and 49 concerning gene transfer.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 12 concerning the prevention of gene transfer.
Gene transfer between organisms is, as we know, a common phenomenon in nature.
Instead we need to ensure that potential risks from gene transfer are thoroughly assessed before GMO products are released for research or placed on the market.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 22 and 23 as they stand, since the provisions foreseen in these amendments would not be workable within the authorisation system established by the directive.
In this context, Amendment No 26 is also not acceptable since this would limit the flexibility of the optional time limitation of consent for the renewal.
Amendment No 25 seeks to introduce a provision which allows for the introduction of differentiated procedures under Part C of the directive.
However, this amendment goes beyond the Commission proposal and is therefore not acceptable to the Commission as it stands.
The Commission is, however, willing to reconsider this amendment in the light of its original proposal and within the framework of an overall compromise.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 21 since the legal basis of future legislative measures is subject to its content and cannot be established in advance by this directive.
Amendment No 6, concerning a centralised Community procedure, is not acceptable.
However, I should like to stress that careful evaluation of a centralised procedure would be done in the Commission report required under Article 30 of the directive.
Amendment No 32 is therefore not acceptable.
Amendments Nos 5, 7, 10, 15, 16, 18, 20, 27, 30, 31, 34, 39, 41 to 44, 50 and 51 are also not acceptable since they would introduce legal and technical uncertainty or jeopardise the overall balance achieved in the common position.
It has to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment and, at the same time, allow society to profit from the benefits of these new technologies.
To strike the right balance between these two justified concerns we need a transparent process, a wide dialogue and strong political leadership.
We all have to take our responsibilities in achieving this, and this is the only way in which we will win the trust and confidence of our citizens.
You know that the contained use directive excludes this and, at the same time, Article 2 (4) of the common position makes no provision for regulations on GMOs for contained use.
There is a gap in the legislation here and I think that this is very important for tomorrow' vote.
Mr President, I shall start with the second part of Mrs Breyer's question.
Insurance is one thing we will have to look into in more depth and also get the views of other parties on the practical aspects.
I believe it will be possible to put an insurance system in place.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The regulation under discussion has come too late, much too late in my opinion, but all the same it will help to provide some answers, some solutions and it will help us to take some action to restore consumer confidence.
In short, we all know what we are talking about.
The system that Parliament is endeavouring to establish though its amendments could be applied from 1 September 2000 onwards and we insist on this because one demand of the entire House was that specific dates and deadlines should be set at long last and that we should get started.
I propose that we change this system.
The most important objective of the Commission proposal - and I should like expressly to stress this once again - is the traceability of beef or bovine animals from birth through to processing and sale.
Information on the fattening process and, where applicable, on antibiotics or other stimulants administered, as demanded in proposed Amendment No 48, have absolutely no business to be on the label.
This applies in particular to information on the region of origin of the meat.
But we are emphatically against making all the information, including the indication of the place of birth, compulsory when the regulation enters into force in September 2000, rather than in two stages.
Mr President, beef labelling has two distinct functions.
Member States have differing levels of BSE incidence but there are also variations in the measures to eradicate the disease and protect human health.
Therefore people want to know which country their beef comes from.
Reference to regions should not be an alternative to country of origin but a voluntary addition.
I say that because he comes from a small political group - and it is often hard to make headway here - and he comes from one of the southern Member States, which will in some ways have to make sacrifices and introduce regulations to bring about effective, proper beef labelling throughout the Community.
The fact that we have had to wait two years for this proposal to become a practical reality is a poor comment on the urgency with which they regard it, although the situation was plainly critical from the time of the outbreak of the BSE crisis onwards.
I was glad to hear the representative of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development say that they would settle for the four-month advance that would involve coming forward from January 2002.
We believe that this is necessary because we should now get the whole European Union on the move.
What everybody wants - whether they are farmers, citizens or consumers in the United Kingdom or anywhere else in the Union - is to feel that they have equal confidence, wherever they are, in the safety of the product that they are consuming.
I know that there are people in the Netherlands who disagree with that and I would be interested to know why.
We agree with the rapporteur' s intention to stiffen and speed up the compliance provisions in Amendments Nos 42 and 43.
My country, Mr President, and yours - if I can call Scotland my country too, as I certainly would - have suffered the horrors of BSE.
After our years of effort to that end, we can now justifiably say to the Community as a whole that what we want for ourselves we want for everyone else as well.
If nothing is done, compulsory labelling will enter into force on 1 September 2000.
If we cannot agree on Parliament' s proposals by 1 September, then the old regulation with the compulsory system will enter into force.
Mr President, the people who will be most shocked to learn of this evening' s debate must surely be European consumers.
They will be astounded to learn that, so many years after the start of the BSE crisis, the European Union still does not have a reliable traceability system for beef.
It is therefore all the more deplorable that they should have been deprived of this possibility by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
What a decidedly strange Europe it is that penalises Member States which take the necessary initiatives and action to restore consumer confidence and protect citizens' health!
If legal action can now only be taken at Community level, then let us at least act quickly and stop indefinitely postponing the implementation of the commitments made in 1997 with a view to providing the consumer with transparent and comprehensible information.
Compulsory labelling indicating the origin of goods must therefore be introduced as soon as possible, and it must certainly not be postponed until 1 January 2003, as the Commission proposes.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fourteen years after BSE first appeared, we have finally got around to doing something about labelling meat in order to protect consumers and ensure traceability.
This protection is undoubtedly belated in principle but, above all, illusory in practice.
Firstly, in the draft regulation, 50% of European meat is effectively exempt from compulsory labelling if it is minced or cut.
For the remaining 50%, labelling is not compulsory until 2003, which means that we have three years to dispose of British surplus stocks.
And after 2003, the designation of origin may be limited to a simple indication of 'EC origin' with no mention of the country.
What is more, to bury the prion under even more details, the label is laden down with indications of: the place where the animal was born, fattened, slaughtered and boned, with the Member State of origin, the region of origin, the farm of origin, a total of twelve items, plus the price and the weight, making a total of fourteen items, which is simply too much to read and take in.
The only effective protection would be checks, and this requires States and frontiers.
Mr President, this debate on the labelling of beef is closely akin to our previous concerns on the subject of food safety.
As far as the EDD Group is concerned, product traceability provides a guarantee both for the protection of consumer health and for the promotion of quality products which all producers, large or small, are capable of producing if they favour quality over base commercial and financial interests which have little regard for human health.
In our view the important and essential thing in this report is that all meat industry products should be covered by compulsory labelling, from basic butchered meat to derivatives, minced meat, cut meat, etc.
To that end, as I already stated in our discussions on 5 October 1999, the CPNT party members within the EDD Group will therefore support any measure in support of complete traceability, which can only be of benefit to everyone concerned: the consumer, who will be informed, and the good producer, who will be protected.
Any food labelling policy must be accurate and dependable for both the producers and the consumers.
Mr President, the discussion on labelling beef has reached a point at which it is crucial to restore confidence among producers and consumers.
Mr President, Commissioner, food safety gets people talking perhaps more than any other issue, and, for that reason, it is good that it also gets us talking here in Parliament.
But the most important consideration is that it does not just get us talking, but that we should also do something about it.
Many have mentioned here that the EC label is not enough and that more precise information is needed.
It is absolutely essential to know what country the products are from.
In addition, the origin, not only of meat products, but of the ingredients used in processed meat, must be shown as clearly as possible.
The timetable that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is proposing is not too pressing.
The Member States should have already prepared themselves for it.
The issue is also one of credibility when it comes to implementing joint resolutions in all Member States.
The purpose of the regulation in question must be to achieve a situation in which consumers have confidence in meat from all EU countries.
Until this is a reality, consumers need to know precisely which country their meat comes from.
The authorisation number does not provide the consumer with any useful information and has no bearing upon traceability.
The compulsory registration system for bovine animals due to enter into force is the sine qua non for a reasonable beef labelling system.
Such a system must be practicable if it is to achieve its objective.
Mr President, the discussion on labelling beef is quite loaded.
An important question is whether the "Origin: EU" label should be permitted as an added option.
There are, of course, other means of enforcing compliance, but this method is far more direct.
The internal market is a large entity.
Mutual recognition requires trust, and trust requires common standards, especially in the case of food safety.
We would then be accepting that we have more confidence in certain countries than others and this is a sign of little faith in our own food safety policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, in my view, at present this is not a matter of confidence in the safety of food alone: it is very important that we also look to the near future.
We must put our own house, our own part of the world, in order.
For this reason, labelling must be kept very simple: the labels must show the country of origin, and, if one wishes, the region of production.
But a label showing the country of origin of a product is very important to us, particularly if we want consumers to have confidence in food safety in the future.
Tomorrow, the European Union is preparing to outline a test programme for all Member States.
In this context, consumers would not understand the delays in the matter of labelling.
I am therefore particularly concerned to ensure that the operators in this industry are not confronted with a legal vacuum which would lead public opinion, quite legitimately, to wonder whether there is a real desire for greater transparency.
How else is it possible to explain the fact that at European level we have managed to obtain an agreement on chocolate but that we are unable to meet the deadlines we set ourselves in an area as sensitive and important as beef.
Finally, what our fellow citizens are demanding is the right to information.
In the beef sector, improving consumer information through labelling represents a strong message from Europe to its trading partners: it demonstrates its intention, over and above product health safety, to safeguard the consumer' s freedom of choice.
Fortunately, integral chain control (ICC) is already well-known in many countries.
If certain conditions are met - and I would like to refer to Amendments Nos 60 and 61 concerning the inspection of BSE, as others have done so before me - then the designation "Origin: EU" is sufficient as far as I am concerned.
I hope this will restore consumer confidence in beef, especially after the BSE crisis.
I would like to see not only the country but also the region of origin on the label.
Mr President, I wish to begin by saying that I welcome the report.
The system is certainly very necessary, if nothing else than to achieve a level playing field within the European Union and to ensure that all countries reach the same standards.
The problem to date has been, in my experience in Northern Ireland, that the consumer has borne the brunt of the cost of the extra traceability, and this has been substantial.
We have fought for years within the European Union to achieve a single market and now we are renationalising that market.
As I said, in Northern Ireland we have full traceability and our measures go beyond the regulations.
I have to say to the Commission, and to producers in other Member States, that my producers have to date not seen any financial benefit from that which they have suffered.
First to ensure the traceability of beef, second to allow consumers to make a fully informed choice.
This is particularly the case in relation to Article 13 and Article 13(2) primarily serving the first and Article 13(5) the second aim.
Amendments Nos 26 and 28 to 13(5) therefore seemed rather confused - one seeking less and one seeking more detailed information for consumers.
For this reason, whatever the final form of Article 13, I regard Amendments Nos 15 and 29 as being of the first importance.
For my own constituency of course, Aberdeen Angus beef is already justly renowned throughout the world but I am sure the same is true for other regions in the rest of the UK and other Member States.
I am therefore prepared to accept proposed Amendments Nos 22 and 23, insofar as they concern labelling, and the parts of proposed Amendments Nos 25, 26 and 28 calling for information on individual regions to be scrapped.
Finally, proposed Amendment No 44, under which the regulation would enter into force on 1 September 2000 heads in exactly the same direction.
I think the new recital suggested in proposed Amendment No 6, whereby Member States must ensure that their databases are operational as quickly as possible, is also a good idea.
As the obligation to enter the place of birth and all stopovers in the animal passport and database has only been introduced for animals born on or after 1 January 1998, it will be difficult to trace the complete origin of bovine animals over the next five years.
As far as labelling of minced meat is concerned, we must bear in mind that the production of minced meat, for example of hamburgers, is a continuous process.
As far as the Commission' s powers to react to unusual and unforeseen circumstances are concerned, I am, unfortunately, unable to accept proposed Amendments Nos 16 and 38 because they prevent a practicable solution.
Finally, I think it is premature to commit ourselves to extending the labelling system to processed products containing beef, as suggested in proposed Amendment No 40.
As far as the proposed amendments tabled subsequently at the end of last week are concerned, I have already explained in connection with proposed Amendments Nos 45 and 46 that the Commission agrees with you that the first stage of the compulsory system should start on 1 September this year.
This idea may look simple on paper, but it is in fact extremely complicated to administer and, more importantly, to control.
As far as the voluntary system is concerned, which is to be set up alongside the new compulsory system in order to include all the information which is not being made compulsory, the Commission can accept two of the four amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment, namely proposals 33 and 35.
However, I see that a total of nine new proposed amendments have been tabled for this plenary sitting which were not adopted by the Committee on the Environment.
These amendments seek to re-introduce a formal approval procedure for voluntary information on labels.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will be taken on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 12.10 a.m.)
