What is worse, the numbers remain stubbornly high and we are light years away from reaching the target of halving the number of malnourished people by the year 2015.
Let us consider AIDS, a scourge which has already claimed 25 million victims, let us remember the 14 000 people throughout the world who contract the HIV virus every day.
Similarly, the decision to grant free access to the European market to products from less developed countries is important.
We must also support timely initiatives such as those launched very recently by the new president of Brazil, Lula da Silva, both the initiative intended to eliminate hunger in his country, with the programme 'Zero Hunger' and the other initiative presented in Davos, which is of a universal nature and calls for an international fund to be created to combat poverty and hunger in the countries of the developing world.
It is equally crucial however, as I mentioned previously, that fundamental measures are adopted, breaking first of all with a model that has proven to be inadequate and unfair, which places the least developed countries in an inferior position and treats them shabbily - particularly by claiming that everything can be resolved through trade - which perpetuates an unfair system of trade that attaches sole priority to economic growth and ignores the importance of a fair distribution of the wealth that is created.
A definitive solution must be found to the problem of debt and it is particularly necessary to ensure stable prices that compensate for the traditional forms of production in the least developed countries, mainly in the primary sector.
Mr President, there is famine upon famine in Africa.
In some of these countries or regions, the food crisis is not a general crisis.
In the opinion of the Greens, the only way of eradicating hunger throughout the world is by the sustainable development of food production which is based on the needs of local populations, and fair trade between North and South - in other words, trade which pays a fair price that reflects the social and environmental costs of production and the resources and workers of poorer countries.
We also state in this resolution that the gap between developed and developing countries became wider during the 1990s.
First of all, no mention is made of efforts to reduce the birth rate in the developing countries, given that poor countries are quite obviously in no position to create economic growth that can keep pace with the very rapid increase in the number of inhabitants of these countries.
Thirdly, our resolution indicates the need to reduce tariff barriers, but we forget to say that we lack credibility because our agricultural policy entails our dumping products on the poor countries' markets, so destroying their own agriculture's potential.
Prescribing one-sided protection measures is going too far, however.
Conversely, this clarity is much less evident in international bodies with a large number of players and interests, such as a parliamentary assembly.
We have been striving, commendably, to liberalise our markets in all products, except arms, for the world's 48 poorest countries, but we have said that for three basic products - bananas, rice and sugar - we will delay abolishing duties until 2009.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the times when large parts of Europe suffered from hunger are over, thank God.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to expressly say that a great deal of attention needs to be paid to preventing fraud particularly in connection with development aid.
It is still important to realise that a country like Mozambique, which was completely dependent on food from elsewhere as a result of an endless civil war, is now able to provide her own food thanks to good internal distribution.
The link with European agricultural protectionism is nevertheless very distressing in this case as well.
The situation is not normal, however, as consumer prices are artificially high in Europe, and are therefore ruining the world market.
It is complete lunacy if the final stage in this vicious circle of hunger consists of dumping our surpluses on the markets we have already undermined through low world market prices.
The fight against poverty and food insecurity and the prevention of the conflicts which often result from them must target the structural causes and must break away from economic, agricultural and trade policies which are now bankrupt.
The UNDP report for 2002 reminds us that if the process continues at the present snail's pace, it will take more than 130 years to abolish hunger.
The fight against poverty makes it essential for the developing countries to gain the right to fix their own priorities and strategies in order to support sustainable food production by utilising their own natural and human resources and local know-how and investing in the structural transformation of their economies, at the same time receiving legitimate, guaranteed prices.
Mr President, Commissioner, protectionism is always cited as a reason for hunger in the world.
Mr President, the statistics in relation to world hunger are indeed staggering.
By the time it takes to discuss this topic, almost one thousand people will have died of hunger somewhere in the world - the majority of them in Africa.
At the present time, there are about 800 million people in the world who do not have enough food and this includes 300 million children.
We have committed ourselves to fully eliminating the customs duties applied to the export of the world's 48 poorest countries.
Mr President, at the present time, of the 6 billion inhabitants of the world, over 800 million are suffering from malnutrition.
We can do so by adopting a new approach to the globalisation of trade in agricultural and food products, at the heart of which should lie the recognition of the principle of food sovereignty.
The countries which have been most successful in reducing famine are those where responsible governments have been able, thanks to policies which support farm prices and subsidies paid for those setting up in farming and for infrastructures, to allow their farmers to have access to their own internal markets, thereby increasing their purchasing power and their productivity, and consequently their production.
The total and uncontrolled liberalisation of trade in agricultural products is not in the interests of hungry countries; it is in the interests of countries which are structurally exporters of agricultural products, but it ruins poor farmers in developing countries.
There is no sense in trying to have direct competition between the small farmer in Chad and the big farmer in Minnesota, or between the shepherds of the Andes and the latifundia of New Zealand.
Secondly, the European Union will have to assist the developing countries or groups of countries which have similar production costs to protect their internal markets against world-market dumping prices, with the aid of instruments without which their producers will be ruined.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are tragically eloquent in describing the North/South divide.
I should like, in addition to the numbers that have already been mentioned on hunger and malnutrition, to provide some others that I think are worth bearing in mind: 1% of the population owns 57% of the world's wealth; more than 2.5 billion people have no access to drinking water; more than 2 billion people have no electricity; more than 1 billion live in extreme poverty; and 70% of those infected with HIV live in sub-Saharan Africa.
It was therefore extremely positive that, given the tragedy of these figures, the Johannesburg Summit made, for the first time, a very close link between the eradication of poverty and environmental protection.
It is also true, however, that it was the deep-seated differences between the European Union and the developing countries, especially in the trade and finance dossier, that prevented more far-reaching results from being achieved.
As you are well aware Commissioner, the ACP perceive these negotiations as involving not just the pursuit of neo-liberal ideologies in respect of trade but the importance, in addition, of having a clear understanding that the economic partnership agreement negotiations are as much about development as about the promotion of trade liberalisation.
The structural transformation of ACP states into competitive economies capable of exploiting the opportunities which the relationship with Europe offers will require, as I know you acknowledged to us in the committee last week, a huge investment in capacity building, particularly in trade capacity building.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the statistics are now arriving thick and fast regarding what is, to say the least, a tragic situation.
Lastly, I would like to say a few words, in these appalling circumstances, on the valuable, irreplaceable role of the NGOs in all the Community and non-Community countries, which have always been on the front line in this war against starvation and death from malnutrition and AIDS.
The Commission really must substantially boost programmes devoted to them.
It must be said that, by themselves, these volunteers are achieving measures which are of a much higher quality and is much more convincing than those of all the western governments, and, above all, that they manage to put much more enthusiasm into this work, providing resources and solidarity, firm in the belief, Mr President, that no-one can feel free and happy if the others around them are not free and happy too.
Mr President, others have spoken about rich and poor countries, about the prosperity we have in Europe and the quite contrasting conditions in lesser-developed countries.
The difficulties manifest themselves today in Europe in the pressure for people from less developed countries wanting to migrate to Europe, and in people fleeing from some of the countries that are so desperate not just because of their economic situation, but also their lack of democracy and violence, and seeking asylum in the west.
We protect our own agricultural community in Europe at the cost of other countries.
Whilst we are subsidising our agriculture, farmers and poorer people in countries all around the world are going under because they are unable to compete.
The link between democracy and the absence of hunger was established by no less a person than Amartya Sen, the winner of the Nobel Prize for economics, from India.
Removing the barriers to trade on products from developing countries on the part of the EU has not visibly improved the situation in third countries, although the EU is the largest export market for agricultural products from the developing countries.
The EU should calculate the threshold price for fair trade products and raise the threshold prices for other products from developing countries.
Member States should also favour fair trade products in public procurement, with increasing demand resulting in lower costs and lower retail prices.
Parliament's political groups have drafted a joint motion for a resolution on the statement by the Commission.
Some of us have just come back from Porto Alegre.
President Lula's victory and the policy that he wants to pursue, particularly against hunger, have given rise to an enormous feeling of hope: in Brazil, in Latin America generally and, beyond that, in all developing countries.
Moreover, at the same time as you are trying to encourage Member States of the Union to increase development aid, within the international bodies - we could quote the WTO as an example here - policies are being pursued which in some cases are preventing these objectives from being achieved.
As a member of the European Parliament's ACP delegation, the removal of barriers to trade with the poorest countries concerns me greatly.
The European Union and other donors must respond more vigorously to hunger in the developing countries, increase food and humanitarian aid and distribute the money provided, from the HIV/AIDS fund, for example, more quickly.
Of course, the decision to admit all products - with the exception of arms - from the least developed countries to the European Union market is a step in the right direction.
The problem of food insecurity or the inadequate mix or quality of the food is bigger than the number of people who are, in that sense, really starving.
It goes without saying that all these problems are directly linked to poverty.
But there is a de-linkage between those actually playing in a market as agricultural producers and those simply feeding themselves, if they can.
To wind up the debate, I have received six motions for a resolution - (NL) Almost 30 million people in Africa are threatened with starvation.
This food aid, however, must not be used as a political tool by regimes like that in Zimbabwe so that they can shirk their responsibilities and perpetuate their power.
In Africa, the uncontrolled dumping of GMOs could have far-reaching consequences, in particular for the environment, agriculture and food safety.
India has 65 million tonnes of grain available immediately.
We must not allow it to be used today to create a market for Western biotech companies, so enabling such companies permanently to bind farmers in developing countries to themselves.
The real global scandal of hunger in the world forces us to react.
In order to do that, it must accept its obligation of solidarity, for example by abolishing debt and introducing a Tobin tax, but also by preserving the freedom of the developing countries to organise their public services in spite of the pressure of the negotiations carried out in the context of the GATS, and by preserving their freedom to choose whether or not to accept GMO seeds.
The next item is the debate on report (A5-0394/2002) by Mr Wijkman, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Regulation on aid for poverty diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis) in developing countries (COM(2002) 109 - C5-0100/2002 - 2002/0051(COD)).
These three diseases are different by nature, and different types of effort are required to prevent them and cure people of them.
When, at the end of 2000, the Commission put forward a plan consisting of measures to step up the fight against these diseases, it was therefore a welcome decision.
Commissioner Nielson deserves recognition for having made the fight against these diseases a priority within the EU.
Thirdly: even if this regulation does not specifically support research, it emphasises the importance of investing significantly more money in research to produce vaccines against HIV and malaria and more effective medicines.
The budget that we in the committee are now proposing is also too small, but we nonetheless see the fact that we have succeeded in increasing the budget level as a step forwards.
The Commission places high priority on health questions and development, and has presented a programme of action to counter HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
The situation is improving and I just wanted to reiterate this point in the ongoing discussion.
The rapporteur has now submitted an amendment presenting a proposal for EUR 351 million for the years 2003 to 2006.
I am of course sympathetic to the proposal to increase the funding but I must tell you that we have not been able to find the necessary resources within the Community budget.
If this point has to some extent been a casualty of any shortcoming in communication between the rapporteur and my services, then I regret that, but I must make it clear that a sum of that magnitude is not within the lines of the budget.
During the December Plenary Session, an amendment was adopted which increased the 2003 budget allocation to EUR 80.35 million.
The Commission continues to see health issues as a priority and is determined wherever possible to find resources to improve health, whether through health sector programmes or budget support linked to improved health indicators.
We will also propose a further substantial contribution from the EDF for the global fund against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
As the rapporteur stated, Article 28 of the new financial regulation requires that any proposal submitted that has budgetary impact must be accompanied by a financial statement and an evaluation.
So it will have an impact on other policy areas within heading 4 and my plea to all parties is that, when we move on to this stage, this should not be done at the expense of other policies affecting the poorest countries.
This is precisely what the Development Council states: any funding should be additional.
These people also suffer from dengue, trypanosomoses and other filariases, but I am sad to say that nothing is being done to combat these diseases.
On many occasions, the European Parliament has reaffirmed that access to treatments at cost price is inseparable from prevention, from the strengthening of health systems and structures, particularly the public services, and from research and development.
Thus in Geneva last December, in the context of the negotiations at the TRIPS Council, the Member States and the Commission could hardly be said to have been inspired by the European Parliament's resolutions on access to medicines.
The European Union's preferred solution for countries which, not having any production capacity of their own, have to import medicines under compulsory licence from other countries was totally unworkable for developing countries.
In conclusion, I would say that we should adopt this regulation as a matter of urgency, but not at the price of democracy.
We Members of the European Parliament are here not to promote our own selfish interests, but to promote the interests of the citizens of the world.
We have called this report 'Diseases on poor countries' and we have focused on Africa, where 28 million people are HIV positive, and on the potential increase in these dreadful diseases in India and China, as well as TB and hepatitis B.
TB has increased by 200% to 7 300 reported cases.
I think we need to establish the connection between development and what happens in our own countries, and I now want to ask the Labour Government to act on this before it is too late.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we have been waiting for this regulation.
It should enable us, at last, to launch the European Union's action plan on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the countries of the South.
First of all, there is the issue of the financial resources which the European Union will be devoting to the fight against these three diseases in the coming years.
We are therefore a long way from our goal, and if Europe wants to fulfil its obligations, it will have to go beyond the EUR 351 million over four years, which is what the rapporteur is proposing and what we are proposing together with him.
The second issue at stake in this regulation is the political support expressed by the European Union for the countries of the South in their struggle to promote public health.
From now on, this regulation will contain an explicit and unequivocal reference to the Doha declaration on intellectual property, which recognises the specific rights of the countries of the South.
It will also contain a reference to the facilitation of access to medicines in developing countries by making those medicines available at the lowest possible prices.
However, this political support from the European Union should, above all, be expressed and manifested to the WTO in no uncertain terms.
In this respect I deplore the failure of the negotiations of last December on the clarification of Article 31 of the intellectual property agreements.
Poverty-related diseases are a serious threat to the development of poor countries, and we have the important task of helping these countries fight these diseases.
The World Fund, for example, is a very useful tool for tackling the combating of disease on a global level, and at the moment it is being suggested that the EU contribute EUR 35 million to it.
I therefore wholeheartedly endorse the rapporteur's proposal to include the actions financed from the World Fund in the Commission's annual report.
The pharmaceutical industry can make a formidable contribution to this.
As for malaria, which reappeared in the seventies, it is once again affecting countries in which it had been eradicated.
There is no need to say any more, except that the European Union owes it to itself to adopt, quickly, a strategy to combat these diseases effectively.
The regulation that we are discussing here defines the framework for Community action.
We therefore need to carry out public research and encourage the private sector to invest in it.
I will not tire of repeating, once again, that we need a coordinated approach between policies on development cooperation, research and health in the fight against these diseases, including through developing third countries' health systems.
To date, more than 60 million people worldwide have become infected and around 22 million of them have died.
Of the 40 million persons infected, 95% live in developing countries and nearly three quarters of them in Africa.
Out of 580 000 children below the age of 15 who have died from AIDS, 500 000 - almost 90% - lived in Africa.
Mr President, this report has the merit of highlighting the devastating situation of the countries of the developing world with regard to HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, three diseases which alone kill five million people every year.
He points out that only 10% of research activity concerns diseases which are responsible for 90% of disease in the world.
Mr President, congratulations to the European Commission for making the programme for action against communicable diseases with its legal base in this area a priority.
Shame on this Parliament for voting against increases in funds devoted to reproductive health, which is integral to the fight against the spread of HIV.
Shame on the pharmaceutical companies, who pretend to cut the cost of essential medicines when speaking to us in Europe but who fail to deliver in sub-Saharan Africa where the need is greatest.
tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and malaria have become real obstacles to the development of the poorest countries and every day we see shocking examples of this.
A Commission initiative which is inclined to allocate only EUR 300 million to combat these diseases is therefore welcome, albeit somewhat feeble.
This initiative would never have been launched and achieved its results without that work attitude.
It is interesting to note that the Melinda and Bill Gates Foundation has recently announced the availability of 200 million US dollars by way of a competition fund to prompt pharmaceutical companies to attract that money for accelerated research into malaria, TB and AIDS, but mainly malaria.
So I repeat: we cannot accept the amendment regarding the EUR 351 million.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
We managed to reach agreement with the Council and with the Commission about an increase in the budget early in January.
Mr President, given that, despite worldwide protests, including protests from the European Parliament in December, a Tibetan was executed by order of a Chinese court four days ago and the same fate awaits a highly respected lama, I ask the House to agree to a motion going further than proposal No 8 from the Greens and Non-attached Members.
I propose adding the following to item 16: 'condemns in the strongest terms the execution of the Tibetan Lobsang Dhondup on 26 January for alleged political crimes and calls for the immediate setting aside of the death sentence on the Buddhist lama Tenzin Delek'.
Mr President, I wish to point out that part of paragraph 16 is missing in the Spanish version.
Might this report - which, in reality, seeks to recover EUR 2.245 million defrauded from Europe - also just be a dream?
As I was just saying, Mr President, this morning I was drinking a coffee in the Members' bar on the third floor.
Two of the provisions, however, are not acceptable as they stand.
This proposal is of considerable importance, not only for the average citizen in the street but also for the Community's environmental policy, because it provides for public participation in the drawing up of certain plans and programmes for the environment.
I wish to reaffirm the crucial importance of public control in the field of the environment, and I even feel, as I stated on 18 December last, on another report by the same Member, that access to information and the right to participate in environmental matters must today be considered to be a standard prerogative of citizenship.
I advocate a real citizen's control of our environmental heritage.
It is worth pointing out that this directive seeks to integrate principles first put forward in the Convention adopted in Aarhus on 25 June 1998 (during the Ministerial Conference 'Environment for Europe') into the Community legal system.
This Convention enshrined access to environmental information and suggested greater public participation in decisions having an effect on the environment, thereby achieving more substantial effects from the rights laid down in the Stockholm Declaration (1972) and in Article 1 of the Rio Declaration (1992).
Still on the subject of this morning, Mr President, as I left the hotel in Chaussée de Vleurgat where I am staying here in Brussels - it was 7.30 in the morning - it was snowing.
These proposals will result in new burdens that are too much for a sector that has already been weakened by health crises, and which is awaiting the new CAP guidelines.
What is of particular importance is the link made, as a result of the European Parliament's work, between this directive and the drawing up of a new national and Community fiscal policy for fuels.
These diseases kill more than five and a half million people every year, have destabilising effects on society, and compromise the work and the progress achieved over the last few years in social and economic development.
HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis require a global and coherent response, which will cost considerably more than the financial and human resources available to most developing countries.
These diseases are major killers but they need not be.
The devastation caused by HIV/AIDS is well-known but TB is increasing and malaria remains endemic.
In Sub-Saharan Africa the average life expectancy has dropped to 47 years, mainly because many young people are dying and children are having to grow up without parents.
Under these dramatic circumstances those people who generally want to extend freedom in the market and restrict government support are also agreeing to a significant European contribution to the World Fund to combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
This proposal, which received unanimous support in the three committees concerned, recognises the failures of the market as a tool for combating these three widespread diseases, which are particularly prevalent in the developing countries.
We need to consolidate research and development in order to bring an end to an awful situation in which only 10% of research efforts are concentrated on the diseases responsible for 90% of illnesses worldwide.
The re-emergence of cases in new forms - one billion people at risk of contracting the virus by 2020 - and the return of malaria in areas from which it had been eradicated, causing one million deaths per year, and with 40% of the world at risk, destabilise entire societies and deal a harsh blow to the social and economic development of these countries.
A specific initiative in this field is therefore called for, delimiting the framework of Community action, in order to maximise the impact of action and to provide it with an overall budget of EUR 300 million for a period of four years, until 2006.
I must, nevertheless, make some specific comments.
At the same time, given the increasing seriousness of the scourge that is AIDS, we must keep an open mind, free from ideological preconceptions, about how the development of this disease is monitored, so as not to perpetuate mistakes and to detect, support and disseminate the most effective methodologies, even if they move away from the prevailing trend - as appears to be the case in Uganda.
Access to the health system is a right recognised for all citizens of the Union by Article 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Destitution, poverty and social exclusion are violations of dignity and the European Union prides itself on doing everything in its power to establish this right to health protection wherever disease is due to poverty.
Those at Westminster, shamefully, will be denied that opportunity even if a decision is made by Tony Blair to commit their constituents to war in Iraq.
Mr President, I strongly regret that I was unable to vote in favour of the resolution on Iraq, not because I am a warmonger or because I am in favour of intervention outside the rules of law, but because all of the amendments that have been adopted considerably distorted the original intentions of those who drew up the compromise text and led to a text that considerably dilutes Iraqi responsibilities, which appears to exonerate Iraq from playing any part in the terrorist threat and which, I am convinced, will be received in Iraq with sniggers from Saddam Hussein, not to mention an even more irreverent attitude towards texts produced by Parliament.
These are the three characteristics.
Mr President, I want to say that I think today's resolution on Iraq is very important because it reaffirms that we want to go down the United Nations route.
The references to international law and to the decisions of the UN Security Council are only there in order to better support the masquerade over the danger of Iraq, weapons of mass destruction and the need for international monitoring, etc.
However, it is the only country being targeted, and without any particular reason in comparison with its neighbours.
Moreover, in this case, if Iraq is not the only country governed by a dictator, or the only State with weapons of mass destruction, the fact that it has a lot of oil should not give George W.
The mobilisation of public opinion should curb the mindset of war that is developing day by day.
That is why there is much more interest in the problems in that country than in the injustices in other dictatorships.
Nevertheless, these terrorised population groups never win the support of the outside world to enable then to separate from Iraq.
My vote was determined by the fact that some improvements tabled by my group, all of which were balanced and in the interests of a free Europe were rejected, and amendments that clearly fall in line with the interests of Saddam Hussein's regime were adopted.
Many Members will have voted in favour because they believe that in doing so they are preserving world peace.
If it has any effect, however, particularly the effect of being celebrated in Baghdad and of weakening international political pressure on Saddam Hussein, this vote might have brought us closer to war.
The situation on the Korean peninsula is potentially far more dangerous than in Iraq.
Last time round, we were told it was a small delegation - it turned out they took 75 journalists.
Mr President, at the end of the Mobuto regime the then Conférence Nationale in Zaire published a cutting condemnation following a committee of enquiry about 'les biens mal acquis' - wealth acquired through crime.
I was wondering this morning on my way to the bar for a coffee - which I have already mentioned several times today - how to explain why I voted for the McCartin report.
Yes the hunger in the world is an intolerable scandal.
What the report calls fair international trade does not exist.
