Steps towards improving the environment for SMEs in Europe - Small Business Act (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on steps towards improving the environment for SMEs in Europe - Small Business Act by Nicole Fontaine and Giles Chichester, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, and Edit Herczog, on behalf of the PSE Group - B6-0485/2008).
The current economic crisis underscores the need to adopt the Small Business Act as soon as possible.
The 23 million European enterprises and the two-thirds of European employees involved need an unambiguous message that the change in our legislative approach to Think Small First is a real basis for our future work and behaviour.
We really hope that in the European Council next week you will come back to this question and that the prime ministers of the Member States will give some binding character to this Small Business Act.
author. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Jouyet, Mr Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, our group enthusiastically supports the draft Small Business Act presented to us by the Commission last June.
Mr Jouyet, we have noted with interest the conclusions adopted yesterday by the Competitiveness Council and we would like to know whether the European Council of 11 and 12 December will indeed relay these conclusions and push for the general guiding principle 'Think Small First' to be transposed quickly into Member States' legislation.
Firstly, systematic impact assessments and regular follow-up, monitored by the European Parliament, on the status of the Small Business Act in the Member States.
Your proposals are sound, Mr Jouyet, they should also incorporate support for the offer.
This Small Business Act represents a strong political commitment towards the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises.
That is why, together with Hervé Novelli, who regrets that he cannot be with us, I am convinced, to reassure Mrs Fontaine and Mrs Herczog, that the European Council will express strong political support for the goals of this Small Business Act.
From this point of view, we must praise the efforts of the European Investment Bank, as it is to inject EUR 30 billion between 2008 and 2011.
The Small Business Act and the action plan propose to ensure that SMEs are paid within thirty days.
This therefore means that it is crucial that the signal to small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe is strong and clear.
Therefore, I am very grateful to Jean-Pierre Jouyet and the French Presidency for the generous support that they have given to the Small Business Act and I thank Mrs Herczog and Mrs Fontaine for taking the initiative to discuss this here today.
That is why I am so happy that Jean-Pierre Jouyet has just said that the support from the European Council will be strong and clear.
However, the current financial crisis has left many small businesses facing severe difficulties.
The latest insolvency figures for my region point to 500 businesses going bust in the last three months.
This is an important contribution to European small and medium-sized enterprises in view of today's financial and economic crisis.
We must endeavour for the Small Business Act to be effectively implemented in all the Member States.
We must take additional measures to ensure that the Small Business Act does not experience the sad fate of the European SME Charter.
Keep up the good work, I would say. (RO) We are awaiting with interest the adoption of the European legal framework for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The European Investment Bank will make available EUR 30 billion to finance loans requested by SMEs.
I welcome the proposal from the Commission to promote the use of electronic invoicing, an investment estimated at EUR 18 billion.
Making the needs of SMEs a permanent political priority for the Union is essential, and I welcome the action plan in support of the Small Business Act for Europe.
Mr Jouyet, may I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the French Presidency for its pro-activeness that has enabled intentions to be transformed swiftly into action. (ES) Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to congratulate the Commission on this initiative, which represents a major advance in cutting out red tape and other obstacles that European small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have to face on a daily basis.
I understand that, in practical terms, what we have to do now is to consider small and medium-sized enterprises first in every piece of legislation and in every measure.
It is obvious that in the current situation, when these businesses are in such need of funding and obtaining finance is so difficult, we must not take measures on their behalf, for example accounting guarantee exemptions, that cut their credits and therefore prevent them from having the means to operate.
Finally, a nod to Mrs Wortmann: I would like to say to her that I am particularly aware of the support we must give to women's enterprise; I am reminded of it every evening, apart from this evening, because my wife also runs a small business.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the very broad consensus that has been shown in this debate, not only in relation to the objectives of our policy for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also in relation to the steps which we are taking to achieve them.
I should like to quickly answer the questions that have been raised.
EUR 15 billion was planned as credit volumes by 2011, now it is 30 billion, therefore the amount has already been doubled.
Providing over 100 million jobs, SMEs contribute to economic growth.
In small and medium-sized businesses, awareness of the opportunities of European integration must also be strengthened.
The financial measures in the Small Business Act are particularly important for the promotion of SMEs.
