We cannot say that the Resolution on it approved by the European Parliament has been taken fully into account.
On this date the European Parliament reiterates its support for the actions of the United Nations and for the fundamental principles that govern it. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have to inform you of the death on 15 October of the former Member of the European Parliament, Matti Wuori.
Parliament is remembering this fellow Member today. &#160;&#160; The final version of the draft agenda for the October II part-session as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 20 October pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
Mr Schulz has the floor to explain his Group’s request. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is indeed the case that our group had made a request to the Conference of Presidents that the debate on the Commission statement on patents for biotechnological inventions should go ahead, but that there should be no resolution.
If we include today in the reckoning, there will be 48 hours between the debate and the adoption, and we do not believe that it is possible, in so short a time, to hammer out a common position on one of the most important and controversial issues in European political debate.
The problem is that there are deadlines to be met in considering this issue.
If we do not come up with a position on this matter in October, the decision will be taken elsewhere; the European Patent Office is, for example, considering a controversial patent, and there are contradictory interpretations of the directive that this House adopted on the patenting of human genes or of human body parts.
Some were reunited with their families but many remain there.
I would ask that we all do that. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to protest in the strongest terms at the way in which the Spanish Civil Guard treated a group of Portuguese people in Spain.
That Treaty retained the principle of a common agricultural policy agreed in 1957, including the article which states that EU policy is to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, in particular by increasing the individual earnings of persons engaged in agriculture.
Yet, within two years, Commissioner Mandelson seems to be prepared to sacrifice the European model of agriculture in order to hammer out a deal at the WTO, by forcing farmers to bear a disproportionate share of the burden.
At the same time we have Mr Barroso offering deals which undermine pledges given to farmers in the context of CAP reform, in order to move Prime Minister Blair on the budget.
Appointing people who are even worse than Buttiglione for such a delicate matter, in which such good work is being done, will destroy the momentum and work against progress. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to make just two short points concerning the avian flu situation.
The United States has ordered approximately 100 million dollars’ worth of vaccine.
Among these two was one big government and one small.
Our Parliament, as a more independent and conscious body, should debate this matter and issue a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to reports in the French newspapers and , the human rights situation in Cuba is going from bad to worse.
I would like to give you a few examples to illustrate my point: the journalist Mario Henrique Mayo, who in 2003 was sentenced to 20 years’ imprisonment, has made two suicide attempts after having used a razor blade to etch the words ‘innocent’ and ‘freedom’ on his own body.
On 4 October, the journalist Victor Arroyo who, for expressing an opinion that constituted an offence, was sentenced to 26 years in jail, ended his hunger strike at Cardinal Ortega’s request after having ended up in a delirium.
The moderate opponent Manuel Cuesta Morua has been beaten up by a collection of regime supporters and has been at the receiving end of extreme racist abuse.
I hope that this House will present a united front in denouncing the human rights violations in Cuba.
It will send out a better message than that of a future European Commissioner who once, while smoking a Havana cigar, accepted a ride on a Harley Davidson with Fidel Castro, but has never breathed a word about it. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the threat of an avian influenza pandemic has plunged Europe and the world into a state of hysteria.
We are voicing our opinions on all the key European and global issues and other matters besides, but we are unable to provide minimum standards for our own citizens, even those living in the EU’s capital.
If it fails to do so, we will either be made to look like fools or face the risk of a potentially tragic pandemic. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a very good Sunday newspaper in Britain called .
It reports that British economic growth forecasts for 2005 and 2006 are being revised downwards.
A report from Open Europe and Oxford Economic Forecasting shows that the United Kingdom could increase its gross domestic product by 1.4% if it traded freely with the rest of the world, while maintaining a free trade agreement with the European Union.
In other words, leave the European Union, but trade freely with Europe and the world.
Common sense may eventually prevail. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Ireland is the only country in Europe in which driftnet fishing of wild Atlantic salmon is allowed.
More recently, the Director-General for Economic and Financial Affairs at the Commission, Mr&#160;Klaus Regling, was claiming that the European Union should set itself the objective of reducing wages by 3.7% in order to gain 1% in growth.
The code of ethics of European responsibility requires the Heads of State or Government to be clear about who does what, but it also requires the European Commission – and this is, indeed, the most basic requirement – to take its work seriously. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a revolution broke out in Hungary on 23 October 1956.
The events of 1956 were profoundly democratic.
Thirdly, the revolution also had a message for Europe.
We, the Hungarian delegation of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, declare the period up to the end of 2006 a Hungarian season, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the great Hungarian revolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, poverty is silent.
More than sixty-eight million people live under the poverty line in the Europe of the Twenty-five.
However, the poverty in various Member States is not comparable.
The past and further extension of the EU makes this a particularly opportune time for the informal summit to also address the European social model.
I should therefore like, if we really want to talk about justice and human rights, for us to show that we respect human rights, for us to send a mission to examine this barbarity on the part of the country which is just a short way away from Brussels. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Luxembourg, a founding Member State of the European Union, has never claimed the status of official EU language for its mother tongue, Luxemburgish.
With the most recent enlargement, the number of official languages has increased.
The Council of Ministers has just granted the status of official language to Irish, bringing to 21 the total number of official and working languages.
In its conclusions of June 2005, the Council also gave its verdict on languages – I quote – whose status is recognised by the Constitution of a Member State on all or part of its territory or the use of which as a national language is authorised by law.
With Luxemburgish having been our national language since 1984, I believe that the Council conclusions apply in this instance.
I will be asking the European Parliament’s legal service to ascertain how this veiled recognition for the Luxemburgish language could be made public and visible in Community texts. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Lithuania has been a member of the European Union since 2004, which means that it should comply with the legal obligations arising under Community legislation.
One of the fundamental rights of every human being is the right to property and the right to inherit property, in particular land.
The extent to which a country recognises this right is an indication of its level of democracy.
After 1939, private property, and in particular land, was confiscated in Lithuania in line with Soviet law.
This primarily affects Poles living in Lithuania, who constitute a sizeable national minority.
It is time that the relevant parliamentary committees looked into this matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Members will know – and have been very concerned recently – that nine blind passengers were thrown off a Ryanair flight because the captain said that the limit to the number of disabled people was four per flight.
I hope we will. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House the problems faced by the rendering industry in the United Kingdom as a result of European Union legislation setting standards for incineration plants in the United Kingdom, namely the Waste Incineration Directive, which is now due to be implemented by the end of this year.
The tallow that is being designated as a waste in these three Member States will not be considered a waste in the other Member States.
There should not be different interpretations in different Member States.
The blame starts here because we should not allow it to happen in the first place. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the European Commission has published a report revealing the extent of mental health problems, which affect 27% of EU citizens.
The main reason why people suffer from affective disorders, however, is because they lead a life without principles and without God.
This is why it is pointless to pour billions of euro into preventive programmes unless the aim of such programmes is to safeguard genuine human dignity, the right to security in social and medical terms and growth within a healthy and loving family that lives by moral principles. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you reminded us that today is United Nations Day and that upholding human rights is a top priority.
So I hope that this Parliament will hold governments like Britain’s to their promises on sex equality, on free speech and on avoiding the imposition of Sharia law in Iraq and Afghanistan. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a few weeks ago, nine blind passengers, having taken their seats in London on a Ryanair aeroplane bound for Italy, were requested to take subsequent flights as there were already four disabled people checked in for the flight.
I wanted publicly to denounce this matter in this House. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the problem of inactivating pesticides, whether in Europe or in the rest of the world, has become less and less of a priority in recent years.
I would therefore call on Parliament to turn its attention to this issue, which is one that has been neglected to date.
A detailed plan of action should be drawn up without delay, aimed at the stocktaking, identification and destruction of all stockpiles of obsolete pesticides and other hazardous chemicals. &#160;&#160; – I would like briefly to return to the subject of Croatia, which finally received a green light on 4 October, in the form of the positive decision to launch accession negotiations.
With this decision, the European Union has highlighted the strategic importance of Croatia and its positive influence on the democratisation of the entire Balkans region.
Agreement on this point was reached also by the representatives of fifteen Central and Eastern European countries at the 12th annual summit of Central and Eastern European heads of state, held in Zagreb on 14-15 October.
Security in the Balkans means security in Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to call for measures to be taken in connection with the unjust witch-hunt conducted by the Danish media against Polish exporters of agricultural products to Denmark.
These accusations are quite clearly absurd, as proved by the fact that raspberries grown by the same companies were exported to Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Sweden, Russia and the USA, without any cases of food poisoning being reported in these countries.
The 1956 revolution was followed in Poland by the Solidarity movement and in 1968 by the Prague Spring. 1956 marked a Hungarian uprising against Soviet occupation, a fight for freedom, a fight for national independence, and at the same time a fight against Communist dictatorship.
In the words of Albert Camus: ‘Hungary conquered and in chains has done more for freedom and justice than any other people in the world in the past twenty years.’ &#160;&#160; – Mr President, last week formations of Turkish fighter planes repeatedly and provocatively violated Cypriot airspace.
In April 2004, the Directorate-General for Personnel and Administration announced open competitions for two posts, one in category A9 and the other in category A12.
We urge that adequate conditions be created in Slovakia to better inform our citizens about the activities of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wonder whether it would be appropriate at this time to congratulate Mr Lech Kaczyński, the Polish Law and Justice Party and the Polish people on the election of President Kaczyński in Poland on Sunday.
Therefore, I am very grateful also for Mr Böge’s report for the temporary committee on the financial perspective.
It is an important statement of support in a difficult financial context.
I am pleased to say that the Commission is able to accept, either word for word or in substance, 39 of the 79 amendments proposed by Parliament.
That leaves a further 20 amendments which raise some substantial issues on which I would like to comment.
Regarding amendments which derogate from the Financial Regulation or its implementing rules, four amendments to the annex to the decision – amendments 67, 68, 69 and 71 – would derogate from the existing implementing rules for the European Union budget.
However, the Commission believes that such provisions should initially be sought by revising the Financial Regulation and its implementing rules themselves.
On the named institutions: the new programme will support the operating costs of some institutions which do high-quality work in education and training at European level and which are important partners for the European Union.
Finally, in order for the programme to start on time, the decision needs to be made and adopted as soon as possible in 2006.
The programme enables everyone to take part in educational programmes virtually from the cradle to the grave.
The first programme open to all is ‘Comenius’.
Next comes the Erasmus programme, which gives these pupils the opportunity, once they have become students, to spend part of their course in another European country and to take their achievements there back home with them.
The fourth programme, ‘Grundtvig’, deals with the education of adults, and the fifth, named after Jean Monnet, provides support.
This involves the celebrated institutions to which you referred, and to which we want to add two more.
There are also the horizontal programmes in support of these activities, which overlap with the sectoral programmes that have already been mentioned, particularly in the development of material for language learning, learning and the dissemination of best practice in general and vocational education at national, regional and local level.
We have made further improvements to your proposals and have, in particular, emphasised that the Comenius partnerships should enable one pupil in fifteen, rather than one in twenty, to spend a school year abroad, which would add up to a total of 6 million pupils in junior secondary school having the possibility of spending a year as guest students at a school in another EU country.
Let me briefly consider the issue of finance.
I argued that there should be a gradual opening-up of the various programmes to all of our neighbourhood policy countries.
It has been proposed that they should be opened up to a number of neighbourhood countries but, given the very good work these programmes have done in encouraging the strengthening of people-to-people contacts, a general consensus should be reached on opening up these programmes more widely, where this can be done effectively.
I am keen to ensure that the Erasmus Mundus programme will be continued under this heading post-2009, together with the inter-university programme set up last year, which aims to develop democracy and understanding between our various countries.
One of the obvious failings of the current proposals, in my view, was the almost complete lack of any reference to developing democratic citizenship.
Bringing the two together in this way signals our desire not to single out students according to their field of study, be it academic and general, or vocational.
Lifelong training should be a right and should be the specific responsibility of businesses, and these factors should be recognised at Community level as a fundamental social right.
Our committee believes that the right to education is one of the most important fundamental human rights, and no one should be prevented from exercising this right by financial status, poverty or discrimination; also, we must continue to demand equal treatment.
Furthermore, I should like to remind you of the speech made by Mr&#160;Barroso in Berlin and of the speeches made by all of the group leaders within Parliament as part of the 70 cents for culture campaign, all of whom promised an increase in the ‘culture’ budgets.
The protectionist instincts of many small-scale businesses would be thwarted by the practical experience that the Leonardo da Vinci programme gives to young people by allowing them to carry out work placements in other countries.
Although this programme is an educational one whose components – Comenius, Erasmus, Grundtvig and so on – address different priorities, the one thing these all have in common is that they promote mobility, and enhance quality, giving recognition for achievement and education, for multilingualism and knowledge of other countries.
These things are precisely what we need to achieve – or at least to get closer to – the Lisbon objective by 2010, that being to have 3 million Erasmus students and 150 000 Leonardo participants.
We are waiting in eager anticipation for the individual Member States’ Lisbon action plans, while being no less eager to find out what is in the Financial Perspective and the budget proposals for all these programmes for 2007.
I have practical experience of running projects, in the course of which I discovered that the problems in the Member States themselves are often even worse than at EU level.
The fact that practical training costs more than purely theoretical education cannot be a reason for cutting funding for it.
It is both dishonest and inconsistent to announce 2006 as the European Year of Job Mobility while at the same time making funding cuts. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lisbon Strategy, as formulated after the spring Council, subjects education to the needs of the market and emphasises lifelong learning and education solely as a means of promoting low-paid permanent jobs.
Constant calls are being made for greater private investment in the sector of scientific research in order to serve the needs of big business.
At the same time, innovation and novelty are not orientated towards promoting technology and the quality of life.
The Lisbon Strategy formulated overlooks the increased need for public spending on and investment in education, for bursaries and for detailed programmes for lifelong learning supporting informal education which, at the same time, are not accessible to a large slice of the population.
This will create a vicious circle for young people, who will be dismissed and then, once they have been retrained, will be recruited as cheap workers in new professions.
That is why the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left cannot vote in favour of the proposal to establish a programme in the field of lifelong learning. &#160;&#160; . – I welcome the Commission's efforts to integrate and simplify European educational programmes and would like to draw your attention to the amendments submitted by our rapporteur Doris Pack, which not only underline the necessity to ensure the continuity of life-long learning, but also the need for an increase in funding for European programmes, including Erasmus.
This would, above all, take into account the number of participants in this programme, which has increased and continues to grow.
The Lisbon Strategy reiterates the objectives of education adapted to new technologies, to multilingualism, to diversity and to reinforcing programmes.
Within this framework, particular importance is also attached to the mobility of students, school exchanges and the cross-border mobility of teachers.
Encouraging the teaching and learning of two foreign languages and increasing grants for participants with disabilities and the learning and use of sign language are fundamental proposals by the rapporteur, Doris Pack.
However, over and above all this, I should also like to highlight the obligation of the European Parliament to support particular aspects of specific amendments, especially in the field of the budget for special programmes, so that, in this way, we can demonstrate our awareness of the need to defend the history of cultures with the need for knowledge and the education of citizens.
They not only have contributed to the modernisation of education and training systems, but also are contributing more than anything else to the strengthening of exchanges between young people in particular, helping them to come into direct contact with the language, culture and education of other countries of Europe.
Pupil exchanges within the framework of the Comenius programme must cover at least one in fifteen pupils of the programme.
At the same time, the amount of Erasmus grants needs to be doubled, given that it has remained stagnant since 1993 and is too low to meet the needs, mainly, of less well-off students, as our rapporteur, Mrs Pack, has quite rightly called for.
We may be greatly assisted in this by the very programmes offered by the report on lifelong learning.
Our future lies in the young people who will soon be making decisions on politics, economics and all the other aspects of our life.
It is therefore all the more important that as many young people as possible are involved in international education programmes even at an early stage of their education.
At the same time, we have found that those countries that have invested greater funds in education have advanced more rapidly and now rank amongst the most highly-developed countries.
Since an additional benefit of the European Union is the fact that our nations can learn from each other, I support cooperation and mobility in the area of lifelong learning, which is becoming both a need and a reality for people in all walks of life. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, every year, thousands of students from the whole of Europe are given the opportunity to study abroad, thanks to the programmes we are now talking about.
Through tomorrow’s vote, we shall simplify the administrative routines, which may lead to quite a few schools and universities participating more actively in the programmes and encouraging more students to study abroad.
I am also pleased that, during this process, we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have protested against the proposed cuts in vocational education and training desired by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and that we have also supported continuing to provide plenty of opportunities for people who have already completed their professional education to study abroad.
Thus, encouragement needs also to be given to people who have completed their professional education to move around more.
I shall therefore support those amendments that are in keeping with Parliament’s report on the budget as a whole, that is to say the Böge report. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the current debate centres on an initiative backed by representatives of all the relevant parliamentary committees, whatever their political persuasion.
The financial instruments under debate today are and will be necessary for the implementation of these strategies.
It goes without saying that they are also indispensable for the successful implementation of the various components of the action programme, and I therefore fully support the rapporteur’s calls for more funding for this initiative.
Those involved in organising lifelong learning programmes and applying for funding under the associated financial instruments will undoubtedly welcome any reduction in the red tape associated with these procedures.
I therefore support the proposal to simplify administrative procedures according to the level of grant.
Without adequate funding, however, the latter goals will remain out of our reach, and will never make it off the drawing board, as is the case in a number of Member States.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for her work. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, allow me first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Pack, on the work she has done on this subject, so important for the future of the European Union.
I should just like to say a few words to point out that the vote within the Committee on Culture and Education has enabled significant progress to be made, in particular with regard to the mobility of apprentices.
This is one of the prerequisites for achieving the objectives set by the Heads of State or Government as part of the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the EU’s educational programmes have been reoriented.
Erasmus, Comenius, Comenius Regio for secondary schools, Grundtvig and Leonardo are part of the integrated action programme called ‘Lifelong Learning’ ‘L L L’, which Mrs Prets will find easy to remember!
Although I congratulate Mrs Pack on her report, in which she attempts to strike a balance between the various sectoral sub-programmes rather than playing them off against each other, I have to say that the Committee on Culture’s proposal that only 23% of the lifelong learning programme be allocated to Leonardo, rather than the 25% as originally envisaged, is a cause of disquiet among trainees, chambers of crafts and stakeholders in vocational education.
If the present 45&#160;000 work placements per annum are to become 70&#160;000 or even – as the institution represented by the Commissioner has proposed – rather more than 100&#160;000, a solid financial foundation will be needed.
Leonardo gives long-term support to vocational education, makes individuals more empowered and, as Mrs Pack pointed out, is fully in line with the objectives of the new Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment.
The first all-clear signal is that students’ work placements are no longer to be run through Leonardo, but through Erasmus, so there alone – in a vitally important area – we are saving some EUR&#160;600 million.
The reason why these EU education programmes are so effective is, after all, because those involved take to them immediately, and because the programmes make language, culture and different educational values visible and can therefore persuade the public of the added value that a European orientation can provide. &#160;&#160; I would like to reiterate my thanks not only for the support, but also for the truly constructive atmosphere during the discussions.
This shows the kind of maturity that is needed in order for education and vocational training to be put at the centre of European Union policy and cooperation among Member States.
Thanks to the position adopted by Parliament, both the budget and the two budget-funded programmes for culture and youth are receiving strong support, and this is giving rise to the expectation that they will be successful areas for future cooperation within the enlarged Union.
The programme itself is expected to receive 1% of the total amount budgeted for cooperation with other countries.
These countries are as yet unnamed, but I would like to stress that just as Erasmus Mundus has included and will continue to include cooperation with third countries, the Tempus and Tempus+ programmes will also provide for such cooperation.
We are striving to create the systems, conditions, strategies and programmes for lifelong education in the Member States, and to ensure participation and a real place for people within this system.
By comparison, although there is considerable scepticism and apathy in Europe, there are continents where the debate is still focussed on the fundamental right to basic education, while we are now talking about the right to lifelong learning.
From the standpoint of vocational courses or training, the ‘Copenhagen’ process and the Bologna process are now much more visible.
I am convinced that the current proposal to introduce the European Qualification Framework, which is the subject of consultations with the Member States, will give a great boost to mobility and to the recognition of qualifications.
I would also like to reiterate what has been said by Mr Thomas Mann, that part of the quota for the placement of university students in companies will be shifted from the current Leonardo da Vinci programme to the Erasmus quota under the future programme.
I would like to conclude with a few words concerning the institutions mentioned by Mr Pavilionis – institutions earmarked for support.
I am pleased to note that education has become a matter of consensus between the committees, as well as between political groups and individuals.
This is a sound premise for success. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The development towards a knowledge-based society makes high demands on the educational level of the labour force.
Given the current economic climate, emergence of new economic competitors, investing in people becomes even more important.
The comprehensive, and integrated programme of lifelong learning is vital for achieving the Lisbon objectives.
Parliament, and especially the Committee on Culture and Education, has always been supportive of initiatives in favour of youth.
The ‘Youth in Action’ programme is designed to ensure continuity of current activities in the field of youth but also to develop them further.
It is a programme of informal learning and mobility which will allow young people between the ages of 13 and 30 to get involved in projects developing solidarity and citizenship.
These are the cement for European unity, mainly through youth exchanges, the European Voluntary Service and projects related to participative democracy.
As you know the details of the programme, I shall not reflect on them but, rather, give the Commission’s view on some important amendments.
Article 8 is about the implementing provision and the establishment of national agencies which will be responsible for the management of the programme at national level.
The Commission’s text sets out only general requirements in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
I would like to comment on some very important amendments on which the Commission agrees.
This aspect may not have been sufficiently highlighted in our proposal.
However, the implementation of the programme is flexible enough to accommodate the specific needs of young people with fewer opportunities.
The report’s proposal to increase the programme’s budget shows the European Parliament’s commitment once again to a programme that directly addresses young people and thus contributes to bringing younger generations closer to Europe.
Finally, I wish to express my satisfaction at the proposed reference in the programme to the European Youth Week.
Youth Week will take place in early December 2005 and I am particularly grateful for the participation of President Borrell and for the arrangements made for hearing young people in this Parliament.
The new ‘Youth in Action’ programme gives pride of place to the promotion of active citizenship, and the 73 amendments that this House has put forward are intended to make some further improvements to your proposal.
We want to respond to what young people themselves told us in the course of the consultation process, and in so doing we are taking the most important step, namely fostering solidarity and mutual understanding among young people, supporting the new neighbourhood policy and bringing together the various interested parties at national, regional and European level.
Anti-discrimination policy and youth seminars get a good reception from young people and our amendments are intended to put them centre stage, along with the involvement of disadvantaged young people and the opportunity for all young people to participate, not merely theoretically, but also in practice, irrespective of their nationality or race, of their gender or sexual identity, of where they live, of what they do for a living, or even of whether they are out of work.
Speaking as the rapporteur on the reform of the Financial Regulation, I have to say that I regard these items as very important and useful.
I personally would have set greater store by altering the Financial Regulation itself in such a way that one could work, under the ‘Youth in Action’ programme, with a large number of smaller organisations and smaller grants.
The same applies in the case of the amendment on the ‘proportionality of documents and grants’, which gives the Education and Culture Directorate-General every opportunity to act as it thinks right and proper in the implementing provisions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, recent events show that Europe’s younger generation is just as divided on the question of our continent’s future as their parents.
On the one hand, the numbers of students and young jobseekers crossing EU borders in search of new experience and career prospects is constantly increasing.
The Youth in Action programme is not merely an information campaign on the EU; it is something far more valuable.
By increasing cross-border exchanges and getting young people involved in civic activities, the programme can help counter prejudice, broaden horizons and fight apathy.
Second, people as young as 13 should be eligible as a rule, not as an exception, and, of course, gender balance should be upheld.
Finally, the range of countries with which youth partnerships are struck should be the largest possible.
The final related point, beyond today’s agenda but which we will eventually need to tackle, is how to improve conditions for young people to settle in another EU country.
Moreover, the programme is now funded by only one budget line rather than four, as was formerly the case.
My group is at one with the rapporteur as regards the adjustment of age limits for participants, ensuring the exclusion of discrimination, and both the equal participation of disadvantaged young people and the involvement of young people in the evaluation and ongoing monitoring of the programme’s objectives.
The extension of the programme to more countries, the greater importance of European cooperation in youth work and the more generous age limits make it necessary for the financial framework to be increased to – as has already been said – EUR&#160;1.128 billion, but I would like to emphasise that in this we are being consistent with the Böge report.
This programme is certainly one possible option, and offers them a choice of ways in which to develop themselves or build networks at the European level.
At the same time, it is financing state-funded organisations which have nothing to do with the neo-grass roots movement and which, of course, fully accept the policy of the European Union, presenting them as allegedly representing the youth of the countries.
It is clear that the creation and promotion of a culture of tolerance among young people, as well as the encouragement of cooperation between the youth of different nations, is an important guarantee of the success of the entire European Union.
The Union for Europe of the Nations supports this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the 2000-2006 Youth programme resulted in a great number of developments.
In many cases it brought considerable progress in the lives of youth communities in Hungary.
However, the programme failed to achieve some of its objectives.
Disadvantaged youths living in small rural settlements have not been able to get involved in the programme easily.
Therefore we must ensure that starting from 2007 as many rural youths as possible are able to get involved in the programme.
It would be more helpful to youth communities of countries participating in the programme if the details, information material and some kind of a database were more accessible.
We know that some progress has already been made in this direction, but it would be important to make more of the successful projects accessible, so that youths and youth organisations can get to know them.
These projects will set their imagination in motion, and will help them acquire useful experience.
In the course of these events, young people will meet artists, politicians and sportspeople well-known in both countries.
I am certain that the Youth in Action programme will provide opportunities for youths in many countries to understand and get to know one another better, which will create a strong foundation for taking action against all forms of discrimination and will raise the tolerance levels of young people.
It is hoped that the implementation of the new programme will further foster reciprocal knowledge, understanding and tolerance and will reduce social isolation.
For the first time in our history, a summit of Heads of State or Government has adopted special conclusions in the form of the European Youth Pact.
We have spoken with young people this year about youth issues and, later this week, I will discuss these matters in Cardiff with representatives of Member States and European youth.
On the subject of financial rules and regulations, I am a strong advocate of simpler, more transparent and speedier procedures.
The proposal is now in the hands of Parliament and the Council.
I am confident that it will receive a very positive response in both bodies and that it will be beneficial for all areas concerned.
I also would like to say that the European Commission supports the proposal put forward by Mrs Grässle on behalf of the Budget Committee, as well as many other amending motions.
In conclusion, I would like to recommend strongly that the programme be implemented as complementary to and compatible with other programmes, such as the lifelong learning programme or the citizenship programme.
And my last remark: I would be very happy if next Thursday, following your vote, I could convey a message to the youth of Europe that the programme Youth in Action will be one of the first to receive support within the constraints imposed by the financial outlook, as an instrument for the future European Union in 2007 to 2013.
Thank you for considering this approach. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I am very pleased that the general line proposed by the Commission has been welcomed by Parliament and that the draft report agrees with the main objectives of our proposal.
This focus on objectives will enable the programme to deliver more European added value.
Although support for the projects is clearly a key component of the programme, the draft report also approves the Commission’s proposal to go beyond the mere ‘project approach’ and support organisations, studies and the collection and dissemination of information in the field of cultural cooperation.
Our intention is to cover all fields of artistic and cultural life without any prejudice and to promote cross-sectoral activities.
On the budget, I am very grateful that this programme has received a great deal of political support in the House, from both committees and groups, and I am glad to see that you propose even stronger financial backing for this cooperation.
I agree that the increase to EUR&#160;600 million proposed by Parliament would make it easier for the programme to attain its objectives and to reach a critical mass, but the Commission cannot amend its original proposal; we are waiting for the agreement on the financial perspective.
I am pleased to say that the Commission is able to accept either word-for-word or in substance some of the other amendments contained in the report.
It is important to continue to support this action.
Some of you very rightly stressed the importance of our European cultural heritage.
That heritage needs to be understood in a broader sense so as to include the values and the ways of life that have defined our identities.
Indeed the preservation of cultural heritage is one of the aims of Article 151 of the Treaty.
However, we cannot accept cultural heritage being mentioned as a specific objective of the programme, as this would clearly run counter to the non-sectoral, ‘open to all sectors’ approach of the original proposal.
I will mention just a few of them, because they concern the question of access for small operators or small projects.
For the Commission, it is essential to strike the right balance between small and large projects and between long-term and short- or medium-term projects.
The Commission also disagrees with the proposal to increase the maximum level of Community cofinancing to 70%.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept the proposal to decrease the minimum number of partners from four to three for shorter duration projects and to decrease the number of countries from six to four for longer duration projects.
In spite of that, I hope that the excellent climate of cooperation that has characterised relations between our institutions up to now will continue to help find a mutually satisfying compromise.
I would like to stress once more the benefits expected from this new culture programme.
The programme will actively contribute to the promotion of inter-cultural dialogue, raising awareness of a common European heritage, celebrating the richness and diversity of our cultures, and increasing openness to other cultures. &#160;&#160; . – We see ourselves as Europeans, in spite of all our differences.
Culture should be high on the agenda of promoting the European project, with a view to reviving our common heritage, while encouraging diversity, in such a way that a balance can be struck between the centralising and decentralising tendencies.
In order words, we must take measures that acknowledge the value of our common heritage and must enable the 400&#160;million-plus citizens of the Union to find out more about each other within their specific cultural and linguistic identities.
One of the most fascinating aspects of our civilisation lies precisely in the idea of Europe accepting itself both as a common entity and as an entity formed and characterised by an openness to its fellow human beings and to the world.
What is more, cooperation is crucial between the European institutions, the Member States, the cultural players and participants from all Member States, as well as their transnational networks.
The 2007-2013 ‘Culture’ programme is a third generation programme.
In any event, let us hope that the new system leads to a more proactive contribution to culture.
We have sought to improve upon the Commission’s proposal, by making a number of changes to it, so as to adapt it more effectively to the proposed aims, to frame the cultural dimension more clearly and to place the accent on the importance of our common cultural heritage, without undermining contemporary creativity.
Whereas in his report the amount earmarked for this programme was EUR&#160;566&#160;million, we have earmarked EUR&#160;600&#160;million, because the Böge report itself provided for a reserve fund enabling us to do this.
The Union now has 25 Member States, rather than 15, hence the need for the European unit to be increasingly proactive in the area of culture.
The Lisbon agenda will be no more than empty words if European cultural policy collapses without achieving its objectives on common cultural heritage and linguistic and cultural diversity within the Member States.
Such cooperation will only be possible if we pursue cultural policy that is focused on providing a European added value and is equipped with the necessary resources for that to take place.
As a result, cultural supply and the system of relationships between people and other nations have expanded to an incredible extent.
The new circumstances cast a different light on national and common European identity.
In this context I would like to stress that in a globalised world culture is one of the most important means of strengthening, deepening and promoting common European identity, while preserving the multicultural diversity of nations.
The evaluation conducted by the Committee, based on extensive consultation, pointed out that rationalisation and strengthening are a requirement in this area of community activities, as well.
It is important to stress that in order to achieve effective results and avoid unnecessary duplication, community activities must be closely interconnected in the areas of culture and education, youth, sport, research and discrimination.
In order to achieve higher efficiency, the extent of cooperation between Member States and regional programmes should be increased as much as possible.
I trust that the proposed programme may contribute to a better coordination of community activities, focusing on the benefits provided by added European value.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that the role of cultural foreign policy has acquired a new significance, and its objective is to facilitate the creation of nation states with higher levels of culture, standards, education and democracy.
This would result in a community of European states that is fully able to renew itself, with a strong sense of self-knowledge and self-esteem.
And as the Commissioner mentioned in his introduction, I hope that the proposals for amendment ... &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Parliament’s draft resolution on the Culture 2007 programme (2007-2013) is likely to promote creativity and strengthen mutual awareness of the culture and history of the nations of Europe, as well as boosting cooperation in this field.
One of the most important steps we could take towards this goal would be to identify the protection of cultural heritage of European significance as one of the fundamental goals of the Culture 2007 programme.
The Commission’s draft fails to offer clear support for projects relating to the European tradition or to the common roots that are an integral part of the identity of contemporary Europe.
Such initiatives allow millions of citizens to participate in artistic, informative and instructive projects of enormous educational merit.
The aim of this programme should be to raise awareness of the culture of the nations of Central and Eastern Europe across Western Europe.
In my opinion, the proposal to change the minimum budget for projects eligible for support is therefore very much to be welcomed, and this is a point upon which I disagree with the Commissioner.
Reducing the minimum project budget from EUR&#160;60&#160;000 to EUR&#160;30&#160;000 per year would increase the number of cultural operators able to participate in the programme.
This would be a significant change, particularly in the new Member States, where such operators face much greater problems in financial terms than operators in the old Member States.
Such a European cultural policy could well help to bring together the needs of the cultural world and those of the public, thereby addressing the soul of Europe as nothing else can, and with it, people’s hearts, for it is with their hearts, more than with their minds, that people will be prepared to vote ‘yes’ in a referendum.
We take the view – although I note that the Commission does not – that the cultural actions should be biased towards the starting-up of small and medium-sized projects, for it is these that can help to make visible the cultural riches of the European Union’s individual regions and promote real public awareness of them.
While ministers of culture, and even the President of the Commission, are wont to make pious utterances stressing the significance of culture, and to sing its praises as an agent of integration, cohesion and citizenship, they should also ensure that sufficient funding is available for it.
Firstly, as regards the horizontal aspect of the programme, it must be noted that the Commission’s proposal reflects good intentions, which are along the right lines.
However, there are the intentions, on the one hand, and the resources proposed, on the other.
I therefore come to my second point: the matter of the budget.
It is no use the European Union setting ambitious objectives, such as promoting cultural diversity and cultural cooperation, if the budget available is not adjusted.
None of my colleagues in the Committee on Culture and Education will dispute the fact, because if there is, in truth, one point on which we are unanimously in agreement, it is that of the budget.
It is also a great victory for European culture.
Now that the Wall has come down and we have 25 Member States, we really want Europeans to encounter each other anew; we really want cultural exchange and more information; we want Western and Eastern Europe to have a real opportunity to establish contact with each other, but the present budget makes that impossible.
I can go along with the Commission’s basic approach, and its three great goals of transnational mobility, transnational exchange of cultural values and inter-cultural dialogue, for all of these tie in very well, not only with the fostering of contemporary culture, but also with the management of cultural heritage.
I cannot agree to Mr Graça Moura’s proposal, in his additional amendment, for a fourth objective, for an exclusive emphasis on heritage upsets the good balance that we have worked to achieve between contemporary art and heritage management.
I, too, take the view that smaller projects should be given more opportunities. &#160;&#160; . – For the Commission and the Council, culture is a matter of the EU’s visibility, which has been, and continues to be, the real aim of the ‘Culture’ programme.
It supports projects up to two years, simplifies procedures for obtaining financial support, makes a commitment to transparency in application processes and places value on heritage and linguistic diversity in the programme’s objectives.
The British Presidency continues to block the financial perspective.
As we know, Mr Blair has his priorities elsewhere, but I feel that everyone present is agreed on one point; the proposal of EUR&#160;600&#160;million is the rock-bottom minimum if the Union wishes to present itself to cultural creators and producers as an institution that still gives some value to the words it says.
I hope, too, that the Council understands the message. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate our rapporteur on his report.
The objective that should be achieved by increasing our knowledge of others is precisely the objective sought by all of our countries.
Among the Commission’s objectives, the mobility of persons leads me once again, Commissioner – and I am well aware that you yourself are not the person with responsibility – to ask the following question: where, in all of this, is the work of the Council on problems related to social security, taxation and status, which prevent people from being truly mobile, not to mention its work on the lack of financial resources to support real exchanges between the new Member States and the old ones?
Point duly made. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the Culture 2007 programme is the main means for implementing Community action in the field of culture.
It sets a series of important objectives, such as the cross-border mobility of cultural agencies in Europe, the transnational movement of artists and cultural works and cultural dialogue, objectives which cannot be implemented satisfactorily by the Member States due to their transnational character.
Consequently we, as the European Parliament, must propose a specific amount in the budget.
However, when we talk about the objectives of the programme, we must emphasise that the maintenance and knowledge of cultural heritage must be expressly included in the objectives of this programme.
Our rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, who has done an excellent job, is well versed in this subject and his report takes account of the needs of small cultural agencies and, by extension, of small countries. &#160;&#160; – It is symbolic that in the same week when the leaders of Europe's countries will debate the challenges of globalisation, the Parliament is discussing the EU cultural programme.
It is symbolic because in the future culture industries will probably become the European Union's main competitive advantage.
Of course, it is very important for us to preserve our cultural heritage, but the cultural programme must put a clear emphasis on the future and the creative generation of new ideas.
In the European Union we have official languages, minority languages and languages like Catalan that, being majority languages in their own country, are not in the first or second groups.
I know that is against the Jacobinist language policy that is practised in some European states, but the EU will work to promote diversity, democracy and freedom and to maintain real equality between languages in the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, esteemed rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen.
In my homeland, Estonia, nearly 10% of the population was deported and killed under the leadership of Stalin.
Therefore, I would like to receive public and clear confirmation from Commissioner Figel’ that transferring the commemoration of the victims of terror to the ‘Citizens for Europe’ programme will result in the additional funding and attention that it deserves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we European citizens must take pleasure from the approval of this programme: a cultural programme, renewed for 2007-2013.
It demonstrates the importance that the European Union attaches to the citizens, adopting a programme aimed at improving the dissemination of the culture and history of all of the peoples of Europe, at conserving and protecting the cultural heritage of the Union and promoting artistic, literary and audiovisual creativity.
But this programme will also be open to many countries that are not Members of the European Union.
I therefore support the rapporteur’s call for a budget greater than the EUR 408 million proposed by the Commission.
Please allow me, Mr President, to call on the Member States to ratify this instrument, and the sooner the better, since it represents significant progress in the recognition of cultural and linguistic diversity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, earlier this year, various cultural organisations mounted, with support from Parliament and the Commission, the action ‘70 cents per citizen’.
This means that further fragmentation will not result in a higher success rate, but we do want to achieve higher rates in the case of bilateral and trilateral dimensions and projects.
My preference would be to give very strong support to Member States, to help them generate so-called matching funds, or financing that is complementary to European funds, which would help small or medium-sized operators in the cultural space.
And, I repeat, the main responsibility for cultural policy lies with the Member States.
The EBLUL has enlarged its membership to 19 states, and I believe has a chance to develop its relationship with the European Union.
On the one hand, the Commission welcomes it, and on the other hand, it is necessary that the Member States come to perceive culture as an integral component of European cooperation, because culture enables a better understanding of the present and future of a united Europe.
A united Europe is much more about culture than about trade or geography.
It is about the values that culture embodies. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I am, moreover, very happy to continue to take an active part in the area of culture by taking charge, more specifically, of the audiovisual sector.
Moreover, it is the sign, as one Member said in the previous debate, that, if Europe has a sound unifying project, founded on a vision that gathers the world around Europe, and that if Europe speaks with a single voice, it can triumph.
The MEDIA programme helps our cultural, and cinematographic, diversity to exist.
Then, during the period in which the film goes from being just a dream to becoming a screenplay – a period that is fraught with difficulties, in which no one yet believes in the project – it is Europe that helps the film-makers to find the financial resources they require.
Then, at the production stage, full responsibility for supporting the production of the film is handed back to the Member States, which support their national film industries by means of the State aid that we, as the Commission, authorise.
Finally, when the film is complete, Europe takes over once again because the film still needs to be distributed, not only in the country in which it was made, but also beyond the borders of that country.
I am proud to say that nine-tenths of European films exported for screening in another country are exported with the help of the MEDIA programme.
Mr&#160;President, it is very important that we continue along this path because, even if we help our film industry and even if we are proud of our film-makers, European films are, and remain, in the minority on their own soil.
It is therefore crucial that we continue, even more so than in the past, to make cinema more diverse and to distribute films.
The Commission recognises, in fact, the importance of this programme for the future of our creative output and of our audiovisual heritage.
I hope with all of my heart, like all of you do, that the debates on finance in Europe will enable this investment in our film industry to materialise and that the budget will not be cut back.
I know that you are anxious for this to be the outcome, and I would also like to thank the Committee on Culture and Education, as well as its rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Hieronymi, for the magnificent job they have both done.
Therefore, all MEPs, irrespective of their committee, need to take an interest in this cultural diversity, brought about by our cultural industries thanks to the talent of our film-makers.
On the one hand, it is a matter of funding small and medium-sized enterprises, which are fragile and need our help and, on the other, of using digital technology.
Those two points are crucial for strengthening the competitiveness of the sector.
Furthermore, we also need to make sure that European films take advantage of the new prospects offered by digital technology such as, for example, the legal downloading of films from the Internet.
Parliament knows that I am encouraging the directors of businesses in the telecommunications and Internet sector and content creators to sit down together around a table in order to resolve, among themselves, the problem of piracy and to distribute the revenues between the two branches of the industry.
As regards the amendments that the Commission cannot accept – a very small minority of amendments, Mrs&#160;Hieronymi – I would like to explain why this is the case.
The first concerns the amendments introducing actions and objectives that do not come under the MEDIA programme.
The second group of amendments concerns actions and objectives that are already covered by the programme.
The third group of amendments concerns one of the priorities of the programme – an absolute priority, in my view – and that is the need to reduce the imbalances, within the audiovisual market, between countries with a high audiovisual production capacity and those with a small geographical and linguistic area.
However, the proposed amendments would have the effect – unintended, I am sure – of limiting the actions that have been proposed by the Commission in favour of the new Member States.
Therefore, if I reject certain amendments, it is to prevent them from hindering some of the core priorities of the new text.
I would like to criticise two other amendments: one on the Constitutional Treaty and one on opening up the programme to third countries.
I thank you once again for the work that Parliament has done. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, Commissioner, MEDIA 2007 represents the third generation of the MEDIA programme of support for the European film industry, which has a great and twofold objective, in that we want to help promote European culture across all borders, while at the same time promoting the creation of jobs with a significant future in the audiovisual sector.
The first thing to be said about MEDIA 2007 is that the programme is as urgently needed as ever it was, for European films are still outnumbered in Europe, with an average of 70% of the films shown in our cinemas still being of American origin.
Among other things, the European Union’s participation in the European Audiovisual Observatory will be of value, as will closer cooperation with Eurimages, but there is also a need for the networks to be strengthened.
It is the creative ability of its citizens, of the people who live in Europe – its dreams, as Mrs&#160;Reding was saying – that create Europe’s strength, including its cultural strength.
Its audiovisual industry can be a perfect example of that, not only in terms of protecting Europe in this era of large-scale global homogenisation, but also in terms of reinforcing the sense of a collective identity composed of so very many different identities, which create cultural diversity.
It is therefore crucial to support the text as it stands.
However, the brief round-up today of the new results of the MEDIA and ΜEDIA Plus programmes gives good cause to hope, Commissioner, that the MEDIA 2007 programme will help to further stabilise competition between European and foreign audiovisual producers and that it will result in the multiple application of each of the EUR 1&#160;055 million in investments, education and development works.
It gives cause to hope that, by strengthening new technologies and promoting the competitiveness of the European cinema industry, European diversity and the maintenance and dissemination of the cinematic cultural heritage will be supported and opportunities will be given for new quality works which will promote the European idea, human values, human dignity, mutual respect, equality between men and women and the protection of childhood and youth.
At the same time, investments under the programme in the stage before and after production will help to overcome the weaknesses of small national markets, in order to maintain and strengthen the cultural wealth in small countries such as my homeland.
The overall objectives of the future programme have been successfully adapted to the structure of businesses in the sector and to their funding requirements as well as to the development of technology and of the market in a very competitive environment.
I will therefore simply highlight the fact that, with a funding package that represents 15% of the sum dedicated to promoting culture and European citizenship in the financial perspectives, the audiovisual sector and thus cultural diversity will be enhanced in a way that is advantageous.
In actual fact, by pointing out that this sector is not only of great political and cultural importance, but that it also has great social and economic potential, the Commission is proposing to allocate to Media 2007 a budget of EUR&#160;1.055&#160;billion over the period 2007-2013 to fund its actions and administrative costs.
The future Media 2007 programme would thus see the current budget for the MEDIA Plus and MEDIA Training programmes increase by more than 50%.
It is the first post-enlargement programme, and the increase in the budget should enable effective support to be provided to professionals in the new Member States, who still often have reduced investment capacities and reduced access to bank lending.
In its proposal, the Commission also recommends simplifying Community intervention with regard to administrative and financial procedures.
In view of the important funding requirements of a sector that, while fast expanding, is fragmented into numerous SMEs in the 27 countries concerned, it is clear that these financial perspectives are eagerly awaited.
The Committee on Budgets therefore supports this new programme, which takes account of enlargement and of the difficulties SMEs have in accessing Community actions and funding.
In order to maintain the lever effect that the MEDIA programme is acknowledged as having today in a more intensely competitive market, it is imperative that we continue to make sure that the programme is adaptable, that we continue to meet the expectations of professionals and, furthermore, that we continue to rise to the challenges represented by the arrival and the prodigious development of new formats, such as digital technology, or of new supports, such as mobile telephones.
Thus, complementarity between MEDIA and other related programmes in the area of innovation and research is crucial and still needs to be enhanced.
MEDIA 2007 is the first post-enlargement programme.
This access to bank loans by SMEs is a crucial factor in the development of a strong audiovisual industry.
In this geopolitical and technological context, the budget of EUR&#160;1.055&#160;billion, as proposed by the Commission, is the minimum threshold for seven years and 27 countries.
Those are the conditions that will mean that MEDIA, which has a crucial bearing on the Lisbon objectives being met, can enable one of the most promising sectors in terms of job creation and economic growth to be developed and enhanced. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to congratulate rapporteur Ruth Hieronymi on the successful conclusion of our joint cooperation.
The European Commission should become actively involved in finding the most suitable digitisation platform and in establishing standards.
For small producers, it is important that digitisation should significantly reduce distribution costs.
Our audiovisual heritage is without doubt a valuable channel for consolidating our common historical identity and for understanding our diverse cultures, which form the basis for developing European citizenship.
Of course, in the EU’s current situation, I regard the proposal to commit financial resources amounting to EUR&#160;1&#160;005 million over the 2007-2013 period as the absolute minimum needed to achieve the programme’s goals.
I believe there is broad agreement in this chamber tonight on the broad policy thrusts, though, for me, the key policy areas are digitisation and distribution, and how the EU side can facilitate internal EU dissemination of our own talent.
I hope colleagues will unite around this report and send as loud and as clear a message to the Council as we can. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this report observes that there is limited cultural diversity within quite a few of the EU Member States’ respective film industries.
Irrespective of whether we regard this fact as a problem or as something we have to accept, the question we should ask ourselves is the following: ought the EU to deal with political issues of this type or do such issues fall within the Member States’ area of responsibility?
The Committee on Culture and Education wishes to invest more than EUR&#160;1&#160;billion in this programme.
It is realistic to hope that a particularly important goal of the programme will be achieved with the implementation of this programme – the strengthening of the European audio and visual sectors in their difficult and thus far losing competitive battle with low quality products, which are particularly poor in content and which today continue to flood the European market.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I think that we agree on the findings; we have debated them numerous times in our committee, the subject has now been exhausted and we agree on the conclusions.
The European audiovisual sector is highly fragmented.
Of course not. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Hieronymi, on her report.
This ultimately means lost opportunities for growth and employment in Europe.
Europe has tremendous linguistic and cultural diversity and this must be capitalised on through the audiovisual sector.
I have seen the importance of this sector at first hand in my own region in the west of Ireland, where the Irish language is spoken.
People go to the cinema more often in Ireland than in any other EU country.
It is undoubtedly one of the cultural industries that makes a positive contribution to the important issue of industrial competitiveness featured in the Lisbon Strategy.
Firstly, I agree with all those who said that digital technology is of the utmost importance: digital technology is an opportunity for diversity because, once the technology is installed, it will enable films to be distributed much more easily and at a lower cost.
Secondly, it will be much easier to choose between languages than with today’s analogue system.
I have also been very alert to the comments made by some Members about the new Member States and about countries with a lower audiovisual production capacity or a small linguistic area.
There is another point which, I believe, I put forward within the Committee on Culture and Education, but which I should like to reiterate here, in plenary: my proposal for positive discrimination in favour of the new Member States, which are in need of more clearly targeted help, enabling them unquestionably to take advantage of the MEDIA programme, was unanimously agreed upon at the Council of Ministers.
All of the ministers, even those who had to give up a slice of their cake in order to help the others, were in agreement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The Commission designated 2007 as the Year of Equal Opportunities.
Disadvantaged groups must be given a more significant role in the media in order to facilitate their integration.
The largest ethnic minority in Europe are the approximately 15 million Roma people, who form one of the most disadvantaged social groups of the Member States.
At the same time, the culture of the Roma enriches and fertilises the social and cultural life of European countries and makes it more colourful.
It is a result to be proud of, in my view, certainly if we bear in mind the fact that the Commission’s position on the legal basis means that unanimity is required in the Council.
I would like to thank the Council, and the British Presidency in particular, for the constructive and pleasant working relationship.
They must also work in tandem with each other in order to prevent and trace illegal waste shipments.
I would also like to say a few words about decommissioned ships.
Sadly, the strict measures taken unilaterally by the European Union to ensure the safe and environmentally-responsible dismantling of ships can be circumvented simply by, at the end of a ship’s life, changing the flag over to that of a country outside the European Union.
One of the main objectives of the proposed new regulation on shipments of waste is to ensure that the European Union aligns with international requirements for shipments of waste, both at OECD and United Nations level, in other words with the Basel Convention.
The other main objective is to address the problems which arise during the application and administrative management of and the imposition of compliance with the existing regulation.
Consequently, the new regulation also seeks to contribute to greater clarity and better lawmaking on shipments of waste.
At first reading, the Commission amended the proposal and approved 43 of the 103 amendments proposed by the European Parliament in full, in part or in principle.
The Council's common position incorporated 41 of the amendments of the European Parliament.
The common position is an important step forwards, as far as improving the clarity of the regulation and its provisions is concerned, in keeping always with the objectives set.
I should like to point out that our aim is to close this particular dossier as quickly as possible.
We need this new regulation in order to improve the clarity and application of the rules governing shipments of waste and in order to achieve compliance with the European Union's international commitments.
However, the Commission did not accept the common position as regards three specific issues, which it reasoned in a statement through an announcement to the European Parliament on 1 July 2005.
These issues are the legal basis for the regulation, the objections of the Member States on shipments of waste intended for recovery and a provision on the exemption of animal by-products from the scope of the regulation.
The free movement of waste for recovery has already been established in the existing regulation on shipments of waste, the provisions of the Treaty of the European Communities on the free movement of goods and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
Amendment 35 might prevent possible problems on the internal market.
And I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the great effort he has made, which has enabled us to achieve certain compromise amendments which have been accepted by the majority of the political groups, and this is going to enable us to reach an agreement at second reading.
Furthermore, more than 50% of the text relates to the transport of waste outside of the European Union.
Neither do we agree on removing our proposal on tacit consent.
I would like to point out that my political group cannot accept any of the amendments presented by the Verts/ALE Group and, in particular, the one which refers to animal by-products.
Finally, I would like to say to the European Commission that, within the framework of better legislation, it is important, in a future modification of the framework Directive on waste, to revise all of the definitions, such as that of recycling, for example.
Large quantities are needed to make the processing of waste worthwhile and a certain quantity is needed in order to process it profitably.
As I see it, it is clear that what matters most here is the protection of the environment.
I am also pleased that the Council recognises that there is a problem with the dismantling of ships.
It is unfortunate that waste processing is still a sector that is, right or wrongly, known for its illegal practices.
Waste processing is a normal and respected activity, and of vital importance to society, the economy and the environment.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament supports the compromise package that was tabled by Mr Blokland and we will not in any event be backing the amendments of the Group of the Greens/European Free alliance on animal waste.
Legislation that also provides clear definitions and, above all, promotes innovation in all the Member States.
A regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on shipments of waste is a very important piece of legislation which is much needed and is, unfortunately, long overdue.
Consequently, it is the paramount responsibility of Parliament, the Council and the Commission to get things right.
This is evident from the fact that, at first reading, the European Parliament adopted no less than 103 amendments, and, on this occasion, 90 amendments have been adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
A particularly important case here is that of persistent organic pollutants.
The aim must be to deal with the serious environmental problems that arise in connection with the trade in waste.
In his introduction, the rapporteur discussed the lack of compliance with the existing rules.
I also agree that, where the scrapping of ships is concerned, significantly stricter international regulations are required, and that is an issue to which we need to return as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; I must agree with rapporteur Mr Blokland that, regarding the legal text in question, Article 175 provides the most appropriate legal basis.
The aim of the directive is primarily to protect the environment, rather than to facilitate trade in waste or to support ‘waste tourism’, whereby waste businesses export waste to countries with the most lenient legal regulations.
It is equally important to require the consent of the country of destination and to apply a system of notification in writing.
The country of destination must be notified in writing of the transport of waste in sufficient time to be able to decide whether it will accept the waste or not. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I think Mr Blokland has done a very good job, and the final compromise amendments demonstrate his willingness to compromise, which augurs well for waste management.
Regulation 1774/2002/EC already contains stringent rules on animal by-products; it is a s prescribing in very precise form the manner in which animal by-products are to be collected, transported, processed and used, specifying, for example, the way in which vehicles and containers are to be disinfected and cleaned.
The fact is that we overlooked something in Regulation 1774/2002/EC.
If they are, the compromise will be a good one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteur for his very efficient and effective work on this report.
However, as has been said, the Verts/ALE Group has tabled amendments that reflect our position on a number of specific issues that we needed to reiterate.
Waste, and particularly hazardous waste, should only be transported where there is no alternative; the legislation has to be effective and enforceable to that end.
It is very important that there be consistency between those agreements and new European legislation so that the very highest standards are adopted. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a well-known and long-established fact that waste is exported to countries where, because of their economic or political dependence, they merely collect rather than actually dispose of the leftovers from what richer societies consume.
The report marks a step forwards in limiting, if not eliminating, environmental fraud; in improving notification of the hazards of transported waste; in improving environmentally sound disposal processes; and in upholding the principle of the sovereignty of individual countries, guaranteeing each one the right to accept waste or not. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the intention was that the new proposal on the monitoring of trade in waste would be drafted in line with the principle of better regulation.
In my opinion, however, the draft report contains superfluous provisions that impose unnecessary restrictions on this sector of the economy and hinder its development, instead of improving the transport of waste.
Both the Member States and the European Union are signatories to these conventions.
The same applies to trade in animal by-products, which is covered by the Veterinary Directive currently in force.
The Commission was very pleased to see the importance which the European Parliament’s Committee on the Environment attaches to the environmental consequences of end-of-life ships and ship recycling and we fully share the concerns expressed by the committee.
We could therefore fully support the compromise proposal on this point.
In addition, there are a number of amendments concerning further restrictions on the free movement of waste for recovery which would, in the Commission’s view, not correspond to the objective of creating clearer and better regulation.
The Commission, on this basis, could not accept the proposed amendments 4, 27, 30, 31, 33, 37, 54, 56 and 68.
However, we could support the compromise proposal on other points.
The question has been raised of coherence between the waste shipment regulation and the waste framework directive, which is now coming up for review.
Our objective is to ensure that the necessary environmental safeguards are in place for the shipment of animal by-products.
However, the Commission does not want both regulations to apply at the same time to the same shipment and therefore we cannot accept Amendment 91.
In conclusion, I am pleased to say that the Commission can accept 87 of the 113 proposed amendments, fully or in principle.
These proposed amendments include strengthening the enforcement of the regulation, clarification of its provisions and further alignment with the Basel Convention.
I will provide Parliament’s Secretariat with a complete list of the Commission’s positions on the amendments. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
Annex – Position of the Commission The Commission can accept the following amendments in full: 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 32, 34, 35, 36, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 82, 84, 85, 90, 100.
The following amendments are acceptable in principle: 3, 39, 46, 67, 69, 83, 89.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 5, 9, 11, 27, 30, 31, 33, 37, 54, 56, 68, 81, 86, 87, 88, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 101.
I wish to begin by thanking my colleagues in the PPE-DE Group and all the political groups for a wide-ranging discussion and debates.
We did not agree on everything but we have had a lot of discussion on the very interesting issues contained in both these pieces of legislation.
Of the six greenhouse gases listed in the annex to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, three are fluorinated gases.
The aim of this legislation is to enable Member States to meet their Kyoto targets by containing the leakage and restricting the use of fluorinated gases.
Whereas the original Commission proposal to Parliament was in the form of one regulation with a single market legal base – Article 95 – the Council reached a common position which took the form of two separate texts: a directive based on Article 95 and a regulation based on a dual legal base consisting of Articles 175 and 95.
As far as the mobile air conditioning or MAC Directive is concerned, I am of the opinion that a balance has to be struck between, on the one hand, being technology-prescriptive in relation to the global warming potential of the gases to be allowed according to the directive and, on the other hand, promoting the development of alternative environmental technologies.
Reducing the GWP threshold in mobile air conditioning will effectively mean that the development of CO2 technology is the only option for European car manufacturers at the present time.
Setting the threshold at 150 GWP does not exclude the further refinement of CO2 technology, but it would allow our car manufacturers to maintain market penetration in all areas of the world.
With regard to the phase-out dates proposed by various Members, our aim should be for this legislation to enter into force as soon as possible, so that industry can begin to get rid of the gases with very high global warming potential, while maintaining the six-year type-approval timeframe.
On the regulation on certain fluorinated gases, there has been serious debate over the legal base: whether the legal base of the regulation should be the environment (Article 175 of the Treaty) or the single market (Article 95 of the Treaty) or whether the dual legal base proposed in the common position (Articles 175 and 95) should be maintained.
The European Parliament’s legal opinion stated categorically that an unevenly weighted dual legal base, as in the common position, is legally unsound and will be struck down by the ECJ.
Article 175 will also allow those Member States which already have more ambitious legislation in force as part of their Kyoto strategy to keep that legislation where it is appropriate for the functioning of the internal market and not, as would be the case with the current common position, force them to bring their environmental standards down to lower EU levels.
It is important to remember, however, that Articles 175 and 176 do not give Member States a free hand to introduce whatever measures they want.
It is clearly stated in Article 176 that no stricter measures can be taken by a Member State unless they are compatible with the Treaty, i.e.
While the Commission may not have been proactive enough to date in using its infringement powers, I hope that its recent case against Denmark will be a sign of things to come and will assuage the worst case scenario fears of industry with regard to the single market.
I urge colleagues to support this proposal.
In an enlarged Europe of 25 – soon to be 27 – Member States, the Council may well resort to more frequent use of a dual legal base in order to try and satisfy various national interests.
The proposal to use a single market legal base and also impose additional bans in the annex is a blunt instrument that industry, the Commission and the Council cannot accept.
At present, none of the proposals to include additional bans on the use of F-gases in certain applications have been subjected to impact assessments or comprehensive health and safety or even cost-benefit analysis by the Commission.
However, I also see the need for promoting the development of alternative technologies which are more environmentally benign than the existing ones.
It is our duty to lay out the directions for the future and it is for us as politicians, together with the Council and the Commission, to decide on legislation and not allow the ECJ to direct it all. &#160;&#160; .
In the European programme on climate change, legislation which limits emissions of fluorinated gases has been called one of the measures of crucial importance in order for the European Union to achieve its objective within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol.
The draft proposals being debated today will help considerably in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases in the European Union.
The Commission proposal on fluorinated gases was debated in the Council during the Irish and Dutch Presidencies and it soon became clear that it would have to be reformulated to some degree.
The Council decided, in the end, to change the form of the Commission proposal, but kept it as a package of measures, with a directive especially on the question of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in vehicle mobile air-conditioning systems (MACs) and a regulation covering the remaining issues in the original proposal.
The Council also agreed that the directive should be based on Article 95 alone, in that it would come under the type approval system, and that the regulation should have as its legal basis Article 175, in conjunction with Article 95 as far as Articles 7, 8 and 9 of the regulation are concerned.
The Commission agreed to this change, given that the two elements qualify as an overall package which safeguards the environmental aims of the original proposal.
I should like to emphasise here that I shall be closely monitoring developments with certain outstanding issues in Parliament and in the Council, especially the very serious issue of the legal basis, it being the wish of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety that the regulation on fluorinated gases be based solely on Article 175.
The outcome of the vote on this question in plenary will be especially important.
I should also like to add that the Commission welcomes measures which have been taken by various Member States to reduce greenhouse gases.
The Commission merely wishes to ensure that these measures and these actions do not infringe other obligations in the Treaties which the Member States must honour, especially with regard, for example, to the internal market.
As regards the amendments proposing additional bans on the placing on the market, the Commission has always maintained that, before a decision is taken as to the extent to which a product or item of equipment containing fluorinated gases must be banned, a full technical and economic evaluation is required.
I hope that we shall manage to complete the procedure on the present matter as quickly as possible.
We need the new regulation and the new directive without delay, so that they can start to contribute towards the limitation of emissions of fluorinated gases.
It has to be said, though, that it is becoming more and more difficult to get people to show any sympathy for environmental protection measures when Article 175, the legal basis for them, is transposed in different ways in different countries, thereby endangering the smooth functioning of the internal market.
We in this House have always defended the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is particularly with regard to air-conditioning units that our objective gives rise to concern and criticism on their part.
We should give small businesses this opportunity, and not only the manufacturers of vehicles, but also the suppliers.
First of all, though, I should like to thank Mrs Doyle who, as rapporteur, has taken a number of important initiatives in order to safeguard the environmental quality of these proposals, and has shown much commitment in this.
She has opted to change the legal basis from the internal market to the environment, which I believe to be of the utmost importance and which enjoys the warm support of the majority of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
With the internal market legal basis, Austria and Denmark would have to withdraw their more far-reaching measures, which is really unacceptable.
The internal market must provide a high level of environmental protection.
The environmental legal basis is also clearly less complicated and as such, fits in with the better regulation project, which we all want.
Many companies work with f-gases and a large number of companies have sent lobbyists in order to get this House round to their way of thinking.
Although, needless to say, I can appreciate all these arguments, I think that innovation is necessary and that we should really phase out the use of the most harmful greenhouse gases as soon as possible.
The production cycle of a car model is six years, but I would ask the car industry out there whether that attitude is not too defensive.
As for Mr Schnellhardt’s proposed exemption for small volumes, we regard that as unnecessary. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to thank Mrs&#160;Doyle for drawing up the report and also for having overseen the debate.
My Group fully supports the change in the regulation's legal basis to Article 175.
This Parliament should stand firm and put the environment and the well-being of Europe’s citizens before the narrow corporate interests of those chemical giants. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when we debate climate issues in this House, we are usually in complete agreement.
It would be absurd if we wanted to reduce the environmental requirements that already exist in some of the EU Member States when the requirements should in actual fact be made stricter.
Certainly, that is possible, but my political group believes that democratic countries’ right to tighten up environmental requirements if doing so is good for the environment - as, indeed, it is – should take precedence over companies’ right to sell exactly the same product across a particular market.
We have seen shameless and unprecedented lobbying on this issue by a range of different companies.
Quite a few of these companies attack the Member States’ democratic right to tighten up their legislation.
While she has moved a reasoned proposal particularly where the legal basis is concerned, my group would like to see the Member States’ right to take additional measures made more explicit in the directive.
Fluorinated gases are therefore not as unusual as this amendment gives us to believe, and so we should not make an exception to the normal licensing procedure for waste shipments.
It would be very strange indeed if during tomorrow’s vote, we first demonstrated our allegiance to a more coherent approach to waste shipments, only to shoot this uniform approach to tatters the next day.
I would therefore ask the rapporteur, and the House, not to back Amendment 19. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has done, which above all has the merit of bringing the intent of our legislation closer to the criteria that we promised to fulfil at Kyoto.
Even in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I felt it necessary to distance myself from certain positions that appear only to favour sectional objectives and are likely to produce a much more disastrous outcome both for the environment and for many Member States’ economies.
First of all, on the issue of the legal basis, the shift to Article 175 may result in a distortion of the single market concept, since it allows individual Member States to introduce more restrictive requirements and measures.
Choosing Article 175 as the legal basis might lead to a paradox whereby some countries may decide to prohibit the use of SF6 but then resort to current alternatives that are more polluting and less safe than fluorinated gases.
Statistics show that the alternative solutions have caused many deaths in the workplace.
An approach based on responsible use, with the same rules for all the Member States, has the clear advantage of being a win-win solution.
It provides a reduction in the energy costs associated with a guaranteed high degree of safety, and the environment benefits as greenhouse gas emissions are cut to the absolute minimum. &#160;&#160; – In my contribution, I would like to express my appreciation for the fine and undoubtedly demanding job performed by the rapporteur Mrs Doyle in preparing and debating the legislative proposal in question.
If there are substitutes for fluorinated industrial gases that offer more advantages in terms of environmental protection, energy efficiency or health and safety, we should not hesitate to replace such gases with the more environmentally friendly substances.
I believe that in the automotive industry, for instance, there will be no problem finding such substitutes by 2010.
I would like to point out, however, that there are also plans to ban the use of sulphur hexafluoride SF6, which would have negative consequences for the treatment of cancer, since this substance is used in radiotherapy and no substitute is available.
Should it be banned, many patients in Europe would lose a highly effective form of treatment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by thanking my colleague Mrs Doyle for doing such an outstanding job.
That the Kyoto Protocol was able to enter into force was primarily a result of the efforts of the European Union.
Three of the six gases listed in it are f-gases, the use of which has been prohibited outright by both Austria and Denmark.
A large number of European manufacturers are capable of putting alternatives on the market.
Consumers are already able to shop in supermarkets in which the refrigerators use alternatives to f-gases.
The proposal for a regulation on certain f-gases takes insufficient account of tried, tested and already available developments.
The imposition of bans and restrictions that can simply be neglected not only stifles ecological innovation in this area, but also robs the Community of any credibility where the development of eco-efficient solutions is concerned.
The EU’s burden-sharing agreement commits different Member States to very diverse targets for the reduction of greenhouse gases, and so individual Member States need to take different measures to achieve them.
It is important that the Committee wishes to make it possible for countries that have stricter rules for the use of greenhouse gases to be able to retain these rules and for those that want to introduce such rules to be able to do so.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament therefore support the rapporteur on this specific issue.
Finally, I wish to call on everyone to support the changes proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety in tomorrow’s vote and, at the same time of course, the amendments tabled by the PSE Group, for example those about introducing the stricter rules for air-conditioning in cars at a time earlier than that proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in voting on the directive on mobile air-conditioning systems, my group, like the majority of this House, will follow the rapporteur’s sensible path and adopt the Common Position without major amendment, for it represents a good compromise.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has already voted to reject the demand for the reintroduction of GWP 50.
Compared with a threshold value of 150, a GWP threshold value of 50 has no significant impact on the greenhouse effect; that is confirmed, not by the car industry, but by the British impact assessment, the Commission and the Swedish Environment Ministry.
Setting the GWP at 50 would exclude all the alternatives to CO2 as refrigerants for mobile air-conditioning systems, but it is not for the legislator to prescribe one single technology to the industry.
The core issue with the f-gas Regulation is its legal basis.
In both instances, we are dealing with product-oriented legislation for the internal market.
This expresses a clear commitment to both high environmental standards and a functioning internal market in which all are subject to the same ground rules.
At a time when we frequently find ourselves discussing better regulation, I would, in this specific instance, remind the House of the problems involved in transposing the electronic waste directive, which is based on Article 175. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should first like to thank Mrs&#160;Doyle for the splendid job she has done.
By virtue of tough legislation and industry that is up-to-date and well disposed towards the environment, we in Denmark have in actual fact developed alternatives, and we can say that, in general, we are in a position to comply with the most stringent requirements.
It is ludicrous that we cannot get something done about this too. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, fluorinated gases can destroy the ozone layer, and it is therefore important for all countries to be called on to make an extra effort to get rid of them.
Mrs Doyle deserves praise for using the minimum provisions of Article&#160;175 instead of the internal market’s total harmonisation.
Together with Mr&#160;Blokland, I have therefore tabled Amendment&#160;45, which specifies that all countries should be permitted to go further in protecting the ozone layer against fluorinated gases.
We know that the Commission administers Article&#160;175 very strictly and always wants to see uniform rules instead of supporting those countries that wish to lead the way.
The Commission represents total harmonisation rather than promotion of the environment, the hole in the ozone layer rather than the ozone layer itself and the past rather than our common future.
I also harbour some doubts about Amendments 34, 35 and 36, which propose introducing bans on the use of fluorinated gases in professional equipment; I shall abstain on these.
I intend to vote for Amendment 45 instead. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I ought really, according to the German working time directive, to have been on a rest break for the past six hours and 26 minutes, but the debate is nevertheless a very interesting one.
As a fellow-Member of the same group, I would like to thank the rapporteur most warmly for the outstanding work she has done.
We are showing ourselves to be taking the Kyoto Protocol’s targets seriously, and endeavouring to be an example to the rest of the world in this respect – an example of how to pursue ambitious climate targets and make less use of f-gases.
If we are to have a common legal basis, I see Article 95 as a good starting point, for it enables us to find more common ground than we would if we followed Article 175 and left too many options open to the individual Member States.
I also think it problematic that the derogation in Article 175 gives the public the impression that we are not acting together in this area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, three of the six gases listed in the Kyoto Protocol are fluorinated greenhouse gases, and it is these that this legislation is intended to regulate.
If we are to achieve the Kyoto goals and move towards sustainable development, it is desirable that the regulation we are discussing today should enter into force without delay.
It has already been pointed out that both Austria and Denmark have adopted general bans on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases, and it is clear from the experiences of both these countries that alternatives to such gases exist.
We must use this legislation to ensure that more rigorous regulations can be retained.
This option also reflects a legal opinion given by Parliament’s legal service, according to which Article 175 is the right and proper legal basis.
It would also, in effect, send a positive political signal if we were to refrain from bringing back into line those countries that are already taking action that is more likely to prevent damage to the environment and to the climate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, fluorinated gases are a grave threat to our environment.
We must also be firm in our commitment to honour the Kyoto Treaty and to go beyond the rhetoric of environmental protection.
However, it would be counterproductive to ban these gases in such a way that we simply destroy European companies, while simply moving manufactured products that use F-gases to countries that do not ban them, countries that may even see an EU ban on fluorinated gases as an opportunity to capture the refrigeration and other related markets.
Phasing out the use of fluorinated gases in favour of competitive alternatives is an important step towards making real environmental progress.
The Commission will need to table an assessment report in a few years’ time, and the important measures that are now being proposed must also have the chance of being implemented in the sector.
That is why it is also important to state that a happy balance should be struck between solid environmental progress and not too many restrictions for the internal market.
That is also the ideal approach in the framework of which research and development can be stimulated on a large scale.
The EU sets out the guidelines that guarantee the responsible use of the f-gases and the sector can further develop research in a creative manner.
I would like to hear what the Commission has to say on the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on the directive on mobile air-conditioning, I think we have a sensible compromise in Parliament.
My only reservation concerns the amendment from Mr Liese and others about low-volume cars.
On the regulation, I think you have heard that the consensus view in Parliament is going to be in favour of Mrs Doyle’s approach, and I am very loathe to use EU legislation to reduce environment standards in different Member States.
I thank Mrs Doyle for her work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank my colleagues.
It has been a very interesting debate.
As I came here to speak tonight, the Committee on Legal Affairs was only beginning to consider – as is its duty – the proposed change in the legal base in the common position.
They agreed that the dual legal base, as proposed in the common position, should remain.
The four-month time frame that we have in Parliament at second reading did not allow a proper teasing-out of exactly what was in the Commission's mind.
It is unacceptable to ask us to pass this legislation – but we have no choice, because of the time frame – without a proper and full impact analysis, as many colleagues have requested, particularly in relation to bans.
I do not, generally speaking, support the extra bans, particularly on SF6 and others.
I am generally in favour of Article 175 but against extra bans.
All legal advice tells us that they will find in favour of Article 175 as the legal base.
Amendments 1, 4, 5 (first part) and 45 concern the establishment of Article 175, and Amendments 33 and 40 concern the establishment of Article 95 as the sole legal base.
The Commission has accepted, as part of the compromise, that the directive should be based on Article 95 alone and that the regulation should have a legal base of Article 175 and Article 95 in relation to Articles 8, 9 and 10.
However, the Commission will closely follow further developments on this issue in both Parliament and the Council.
Amendments 2 and 7 specify in Article 1, with a corresponding change to the recital, that specific actions are needed in order for Member States to reach their individual Kyoto emission targets.
We can also agree in principle to Amendment 25, as regards the need to indicate the global warming potential on labels for the applications covered in this regulation, although we believe the issue of labelling would be best resolved by the Commission through the committee, after careful preparation.
The review provision is very important since the regulation is only a first step.
In this context, we can be positive on some of the amendments that strengthen this review process.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments 27 and 30, which would require the Commission to provide a proposal by a specific date, irrespective of the findings of its review.
The Commission cannot support Amendments 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 41, which introduce new ‘placing on the market bans’.
The Commission has always stated that a full technical and economic evaluation is needed before establishing whether a product or equipment containing fluorinated gases should be prohibited.
The review provides for this four years after the entry into force of the regulation.
In practice, this would allow any Member State to do as it wished with respect to products containing fluorinated greenhouse gases, because there are no established criteria to determine that alternatives are safe, technically feasible and environmentally sound, etc.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendment 12, which provides a new definition of placing on the market.
Although it supports the principle of Amendment 19 on the need to facilitate the shipment of recovered fluorinated greenhouse gases in the Community, the Commission believes it is unnecessary here since this matter is covered by the new waste shipment regulation.
As regards the directive, the Commission believes that Amendment 1 on fiscal incentives does not provide any new value added to the proposal.
Member States are already allowed to grant fiscal incentives, provided that they comply with state aid rules, particularly the guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, as well as on Commission notice on the application of the state aid rules to measures relating to direct business taxation.
The same goes for Amendment 2, as the 1999 directive already requires Member States to ensure that the label indicating carbon dioxide emissions is affixed on all new cars for sale in the European Union.
However, as part of its review of this directive, with a view to making an amending proposal in 2006, if necessary, the Commission will also investigate the possibility of including on the label information on the greenhouse gas effect of mobile air conditioners.
This will cover information regarding both the refrigerant used and the impact on fuel consumption.
Many of the new amendments that have been tabled seeking to shift the final date in the common position from 2017 to 2016 will not be supported by the Commission, since we believe that the existing dates achieve our environmental ambition and would allow industry sufficient time for compliance.
It is important that the phase-out is achieved in a smooth, effective and technologically sound manner.
Likewise, we cannot support amendments that change the threshold for the global warming potential from 150 to 50, since this would in our view be determining the technology that the industry has to apply for little environmental gain.
In conclusion, out of 45 proposed amendments to the regulation, the Commission can accept five fully, and a further 18 in principle or in part.
I shall give a complete list of the Commission’s position on the amendments to Parliament’s Secretariat.
Annex – Position of the Commission Regulation (2003/0189A (COD)) The Commission can accept 5 amendments in full: 10, 13, 24, 28 and 29.
The Commission can accept 18 amendments in principle or in part: 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 31, 43 and 44.
The Commission rejects 22 amendments in full: 1, 4, 9, 12, 14, 18, 19, 26, 27, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 and 45.
Directive (2003/0189B (COD)) The Commission rejects 10 amendments in full: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10.
