Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 4 September 2003.
As you said, our thoughts go first and foremost to her family, husband and two sons.
She did a lot to gain grass-roots support for European issues in Sweden.
She also did a lot for Sweden in Europe and was Europe's voice in the world.
It is by doing the same thing that we honour Anna's memory best of all. (Loud applause) Before we move to the order of business I should like to mark and welcome the positive vote this weekend in Latvia, which showed an overwhelming majority in favour of EU accession, with a very high turnout of voters.
The Cypriot Parliament ratified EU membership unanimously on 14 July 2003.
The following changes have been proposed: Tuesday: I have received from the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left a request to include a statement by the Commission on the situation of the ALSTOM Group after the general budget debate.
Mr President, the Commission is to give its opinion on the Alstom rescue plan by this evening.
This is a group which has 118 000 employees and whose activity encompasses industries which are of great importance for the European Union.
Mr President, we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists are emphatically in favour of hearing what the Commission has to say on this point.
This presupposes that the Commission has at length come to a decision enabling it to set out its position tomorrow, as there would be no point in initiating a discussion if the Commission were still engaged in deciding what to do.
The fact is that we should not have a debate if it is to be conducted only on the basis of an emotional response to day-to-day politics, in the absence of the necessary conditions for a debate, and without us being able to complete it with a resolution.
However, it came to my notice that other changes were introduced into paragraph 4, which bring about a profound change which is not in compliance with the request made by DG I.
There is a very lengthy legal opinion.
Furthermore, and in conclusion, it is vital that the report that comes to the House accurately reflects what we voted on in committee.
Mr Cashman, I want to be clear on this.
Mr President, I will accept the House's wisdom on behalf of my group, as I think it would be a long, drawn-out process to refer the report back to the legal services.
There is no good reason why this House should delay debating that report.
I would ask the services to ensure that the Presidency of Parliament is able to deal with this matter in a satisfactory manner at the outset of the debate on Thursday.
As regards the oral question on the difficulties facing beekeepers, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has asked to wind up this debate with a motion for a resolution which could be voted in Brussels on 9 October 2003.
The committee appointed Mr Souchet and myself to draw up a motion for a resolution to conclude the debate and we wanted to adopt the motion for a resolution on 30 September.
Now, since you have brought the timetable forward - something which does not happen often but which we greatly welcome - I would like to ask, if the debate on the question is to be included in Thursday's agenda, to include the vote on the motion for a resolution which the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is to adopt on 30 September in the first October part-session.
Thus, if the vote on the resolution can be taken during the first October part-session, we agree to the oral question with debate being included in this Thursday's agenda.
Mr President, like you I welcome the final referendum which took place in Latvia this weekend and resulted in a strong 'yes' vote for joining the European Union.
Mr President, I wish to inform the House about the situation regarding the number of subscriptions to the magazine Focus on Europe, published by the European Parliament.
The last issue appeared in May 2003.
It was published in the 11 working languages of the European Parliament and, for the first time, there was a special edition in the Catalan language as well.
I thought it would be interesting to find out how many Catalan-speaking citizens have requested a subscription for this magazine in its Catalan version.
According to information obtained from an office of the European Parliament last week, 31 000 have taken out a subscription to the Catalan version.
If we compare this figure with the subscriptions taken out in other languages - for instance, 63 000 in French and 51 000 in Italian - and analyse the ratio between the subscriptions and the number of speakers of a given language, the conclusion is that there is a very high ratio in the case of Catalan speakers.
This is a clear demonstration that it was a positive decision to publish the Focus on Europe magazine also in the Catalan language.
Thank you, Mr Vallvé, you clearly have a very active interest in this matter.
Mr President, for two years, the so-called International Criminal Tribunal for Yugoslavia has been trying to find support for accusations against Slobodan Milosevic.
Mr President, I wish to express my concerns about recent developments in Zimbabwe, in particular the closure of the only remaining independent newspaper in the country, the Daily News, in spite of a High Court decision to the contrary.
As you know, over the past two years this House has repeatedly stated in very clear terms its anxiety about the appalling situation in Zimbabwe caused by the Mugabe regime.
We have called for tougher measures to be introduced by the Council and for the other countries of Southern Africa, in particular the Republic of South Africa, to play a stronger role in bringing about change for the better in Zimbabwe.
While welcoming the statement by the Council presidency on 18 September 2003, words are not enough.
I would like to ask the President to insist that Council respond to the concerns of Parliament and take seriously the need for effective action against the Mugabe regime.
Thank you, Mr Van Orden.
We shall communicate that to the Council on behalf of the House.
Mr President, I will be very brief.
If you think this is in keeping with generous proclamations about employment, about securing health and safety in the workplace, then we really are mistaken.
Now, the World Organisation Against Torture informs us that Tunisia has appointed as president of the Summit none other than General Habib Ammar, a former Commander of Habib Bourguiba's National Guard and former Minister for Internal Affairs, the creator of the national headquarters of the Special Services in Tunisia, famed for its use of torture in the country.
The research is quite alarming and I hope that colleagues who like to smoke will respect the health of everybody else by refraining from doing so within Parliament, except in the very limited areas where smoking is permitted.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I have not had the chance to engage in a proper political debate on the Commission's actions, I will use this one meagre minute to express my disappointment with the Commission's actions, which should be criticised in three areas, to my mind.
As Members of Parliament, we all received invitations to this inauguration ceremony, which we found in our personal letter boxes in Parliament with a label indicating the numbers and floors of our offices.
I would like to thank everyone who provided us with information during the hearings in Parliament and during our visits to Galicia and Brest, but also all those people who spontaneously sent us information by email or by letter, or who sent us entire files.
I would like to make it clear, however, that the intention of this report is to improve safety at sea as much as possible.
It is clear that the Commission did not wait for our conclusions, although we had enough contact with the Commission during our work.
One of the initial conclusions of the report was that there were no safe havens in the area where the accident happened.
The Erica II package contained a guideline on safe havens.
We are also asking for clear management structures - and this is very important - for safe havens.
One solution we have put forward - or at least a decision that was taken very quickly - concerns the decision to allow the sort of material that was being carried in the Prestige to only be carried in double-hull ships.
At the moment, all the ships are still new and everything works perfectly, but will these ships still be OK when they are 20 or 25 years old?
The same things that happened to the Prestige can also happen to double-hull ships.
There are so many things in the report and I cannot go into detail about all of them.
The Commission should actually be a member of the IMO and put its full weight behind it so as to ensure that we never act in disarray again.
The freedom of shipping is not absolute.
A coastal country must be able to take action against a ship that forms a threat.
It makes no sense to automatically tow ships 200 miles offshore, as this does not reduce the risk.
This is important.
In my opinion, and, I hope, in the opinion of most of this Parliament, this man is not a criminal, but he is being treated as one.
I have asked for a separate vote on a number of paragraphs, because some things have been duplicated in the report.
My final point is the temporary committee this Parliament would like to appoint to examine at this matter in more depth.
If I am not able to do so, I hope that this report will not be allowed to bite the dust on account of this, as only one of the 108 paragraphs is about the temporary committee.
The other 107 are about safety at sea, and that is what we are dealing with here.
Unfortunately, too, before the Prestige and the Erika there were many other cases where not only was there no safe haven, there was no political will, either on the part of this Parliament or the Council, or on the part of anyone, to adopt measures that would prevent what happened with the Erika or the Prestige.
As you know, the measures we proposed known as the 'Erika I and Erika II packages' have been approved, with the exception of the European Compensation Fund for Tanker Pollution.
However, we can say something very important and that is that this time we have taken decisions, this time we have acted.
As regards the situation on the ground, the Member mentioned that various methods of recovering the oil still inside the wreck are being considered and that, according to the two formulas that exist, the competent authorities will adopt measures in the near future.
What was said here, what was discussed and what was decided upon within the Council of Ministers and this Parliament was extremely clear: they must, at a given time, provide a safe haven, a place of refuge for a vessel experiencing difficulties.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Parliament on the support it has lent us and continues to lend us over the years with regard to this matter.
The effect of the Prestige disaster on Galicia really was similar to that of an electric shock, and it had the same impact on France and Europe as a whole.
We called for a committee of inquiry to be set up, a proposal which was rejected by the majority of the House, and so we have a report instead, with this enhanced Hughes procedure which, I regret to say, seems not to serve much purpose.
On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I myself, generally alongside the rapporteur, have taken part in all the initiatives which have produced this report, which is relatively exhaustive, the Committee on the Environment having focused on the issue specifically from the point of view of the environment.
I will therefore concentrate on four points, four of the Committee on the Environment's demands: The first concerns the priority of recovering the fuel oil.
It is unthinkable that we should let 13 000 tonnes of fuel oil seep out drop by drop: that would be to turn a blind eye to a hidden oil slick which would continue to pollute our coasts for years to come.
The second point is the rehabilitation of areas of unspoiled nature.
We call for the enforcement of the Habitats Directive and for the proposed Natura 2000 sites to be adopted immediately, and for resources to rehabilitate areas of unspoiled nature, the coasts, the seascape and marine life.
The issue of volunteers, Mr President, is also extremely important.
We call for an epidemiological study to be carried out on the communities to find out whether volunteers should, indeed, continue to collect fuel oil or not in the event of a problem, etc.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in particular, to draw your attention to tomorrow's vote.
A committee on the enforcement of the Erika I and Erika II directives would not be able to tell us these things or bring progress.
The draftsmen of opinions had two minutes' speaking time and they exceeded that time by 40 seconds or a minute, or even a minute and a half, in the case of the last draftsman.
The security of fishing depends on it.
Fourthly, with regard to the shipping corridors advocated by the report in order to organise shipping navigation along the same lines as air navigation, I think everyone in the fishing world will support this.
The need for there to be, at long last, as in aviation, a lingua franca in shipping between seafarers and everyone else involved in the sector and the finding in the report, that seafarers must not be made the scapegoat in the event of a shipwreck, are issues which also need to be underlined, for my part at least.
Similarly, particular note should be taken in the report of what our committee is calling for, namely for there to be independent committees of inquiry in the event of a shipwreck, so that there cannot be different expediencies in investigating the causes and, of course, something which Parliament has noted for a long time, namely the need for both the Member States and the Commission to take specific action within the International Maritime Organization so that it becomes more active.
There is a problem with compliance on the part of certain Member States with the requirements of legislation on shipping registers.
We need to see why legislation is not being applied and to stress to the Member States that they must move in this direction as quickly as possible.
Secondly, because any committee of inquiry will create a legal problem.
I must also pay tribute to our rapporteur for his hard work on the production of a well thought-out, highly considered, fair and balanced report.
She, above everyone, knows the heartache that this disaster has caused and I pay tribute to her tireless efforts on behalf of the people of Galicia.
So many other questions have been raised by the Sterckx Report that my Group and I believe that further work is necessary.
There should be further analysis of the economic and ecological disaster that has not only occurred but continues to occur for the people of Galicia and other areas.
Anything less from this Parliament would be an abdication of our responsibilities and a total abandonment, not only of the people of Galicia, but of the whole population of the European Union.
Let me make our position clear, in light of the rapporteur's final conclusions in his speech concerning the issue of a temporary committee: it is 'no' to any dilution of Amendment No 11 and it is 'no' to any alteration to a future temporary committee's remit.
Amendment No 11 is balanced, needed, well-supported and gets to the heart of the problem.
I sincerely hope that the support we have received in our committee will be reinforced tomorrow.
We want these single-hulled oil tankers out of service sooner than the IMO currently considers necessary.
I even have concrete indications that environmental protection and economic considerations are running in parallel in this matter.
The business sector is already formulating initiatives to give concrete content to the chapter on 'corporate citizenship'.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today finds us again devoting our attention to analysing the causes of the wreck of the Prestige, and its grave and far-reaching consequences.
I lay such weight on that in view of the past political campaign waged by many Members of this House with the objective of getting Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry.
I am able to say today that, despite all the differences of political opinion in the committee, our real and overriding concern was to bring the facts to light and, above all, to come to the conclusions that are needed if we are to avoid such a disaster repeating itself.
It was quite remarkable how the Spanish officials, when they appeared before the committee, appeared to misread how things stood in this House and to believe that they did not need to cooperate actively with us in our work.
He also points out that various investigations into the precise cause of the disaster, and into the question of who was responsible for it, are still in progress.
In the meantime, several months have elapsed, and new details have become public knowledge, including the fact that the Spanish and the French consulted each other on what was to be done with the stricken vessel; the contradictions in the statements by the Spanish authorities about the quantity of oil disgorged by the wreck and the original quantity of oil that the tanker was carrying; analyses of the effects of oil pollution on the environment and initial assessments of the social and economic consequences after the summer break.
I must point out that if a vessel like the Prestige were to sail past Galicia now, exactly the same disaster would occur because there have been no changes that prevent these types of vessels from sailing in Community waters.
The fuel oil is still reaching the beaches.
It is also essential to bring order to the chaos in international maritime traffic.
Finally, we in Europe and the International Maritime Organisation must encourage changes to the entire international maritime legislation, creating what I would call a 'Galicia Protocol', similar to the Kyoto Protocol, to resolve the problems of the sea, which is the reserve of humanity.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is, as you know, of immense concern not only to our group but also to me personally, as a Portuguese Member of this House.
Portugal is one of the countries most vulnerable to this type of incident.
The Prestige spill almost reached our shores and, a few years ago, an incident with immense repercussions struck Porto Santo.
I would say that if the Erika I and Erika II packages were fully implemented and all the measures this report proposes for the future applied over the next two years, we could rest secure in the knowledge that things had finally taken a turn for the better.
We need to devote our political energies to this, however, because these words cannot sink beneath the waves as the Prestige did.
This report contains measures still aimed at dealing with the consequences of the Prestige disaster.
The report also contains more general measures on which, of course, I would like to focus: specific shipping lanes, the question of safe havens, the question of adequate resources for providing assistance in this type of emergency and, above all, a more determined stance on the part of the European Union and all the Member States within the International Maritime Organisation (IMO).
Mr President, Commissioner, the consequences of the Prestige disaster affect us all.
Neither the crew, nor the coastal inhabitants in Spain and France, nor the Members of this Parliament can get this drama and its consequences out of their minds.
For some, this report means the end of the Parliamentary debate on the matter of the 'Prestige'.
There are also international rules for this type of compensation.
Mr President, Commissioner, the first report of this part-session deals with an issue which is of major importance, not just for countries whose geographical location makes them liable to suffer the traumatic effects of oil slicks regularly, but also for all states whose supply of hydrocarbons follows the route which crosses the north-east Atlantic, the English Channel and the North Sea, one of the routes most travelled by oil tankers in the world.
That is why a Parliamentary temporary committee could be useful after the two-fold disaster of the Erika and the Prestige - my region was a victim of both - provided, of course, that we ensure that it does not become a forum for settling petty political scores, as could have been inferred from the circumstances in which certain Members proposed a committee of inquiry.
It would, of course, be inappropriate to set ourselves up as judges of a Member State government: what we need to do is record in a single list, compare and take stock of the different initiatives taken at all levels - at European level, by the Member States, the local authorities and the Commission - to address the consequences of these two terrible shipwrecks.
The report before us this afternoon starts to venture along this tack, but, inevitably, only to a certain extent and proposing solutions which are, in some cases unrealistic and ineffective.
I refer, in particular, to the idea of a federal European Coastguards Service or the proposals for making the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) and the Member States jointly responsible for emergency planning arrangements, which can only lead to a dangerous confusion of roles.
Clearly, after each tragedy the same thing has happened: some months after, the public's attention moves on to other issues and the promised changes remain just that, mere promises.
So we are here now in this Parliament with the opportunity to ensure for once that that does not happen.
I would like to thank Mr Sterckx and congratulate him on his report on my own behalf, on behalf of my group and on behalf of many Galicians who have a great deal of respect for your work, Mr Sterckx, thanks to your dedication, your political sensitivity and, above all, your impartiality.
We believe that it is up to the institutions to promote certain policies, including maritime safety, and it is up to this House to ensure political control, which up to today - and even today - some people have tried to deny it.
It has been said today that a temporary committee for the Erika would be accepted but not a temporary committee for the Prestige.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Commission to devote special attention to Port State Control in the forthcoming progress report on the candidate countries.
Obviously, there is still a great deal to be done in this area in order to ensure that the control is economically and legally independent.
Furthermore, I want to inform you all, together with the Commissioners, that the parliamentary assembly for the Baltic states, which met at the beginning of September in Uleåborg in Finland, was in favour of rapidly phasing out single-hull tankers and declaring the Baltic, or parts of it, to be a particularly sensitive sea area, or PSSA, a matter also addressed in paragraph 25 of the report.
I believe that this report will enable real progress to be made towards achieving greater maritime safety.
I also believe that a temporary committee of inquiry is now more appropriate than ever.
My second point is this: how can we fail to note that those responsible for these disasters are not the people who bear the heaviest financial, economic and social costs?
Nor will we be able to resolve maritime issues without the assistance of sailors, without their knowledge, their skills and their representatives.
These debates on issues of maritime safety highlight the importance of actions that are public-spirited and socially responsible.
The resolution provides a clear analysis of the facts that resulted in the Prestige disaster.
I and my colleagues in our group are satisfied with the result.
The work of the Commission shows that the message has been received.
My group was initially unhappy with the procedure that has been followed in this matter.
The facts that have come to light over the past few months are confirmation for us that we were on the home stretch.
Finally, the establishment of a Temporary Committee on the Prestige is a matter that also affects the credibility of our institution.
The International Maritime Organisation did not feel obliged to appear before the European Parliament either.
In doing so we are sending a signal to the Commission and the Council that we are closely monitoring what they are doing, and that this Parliament is itself playing an active role in maritime safety.
Mr President, the aftermath of the loss of the Prestige is frightening.
I cannot forbear to emphasise that, in Denmark and especially in areas near the coast, including the small islands, there prevails a good deal of frustration at the fact that an increasing number of single-hulled tankers with both light and heavy fuel oils pass through our waters.
Russia's development of its oil terminals, resulting in many instances of oil being transported through the area of the Baltic Sea, is therefore extremely worrying.
By classifying it in this way, it would be possible to take the necessary preventive measures to protect the area against dangerous transports of oil through its waters.
At European level and following the sinking of the Erika, the Commission proposed an entire set of measures that are appropriate and bold - the Erika I and Erika II packages - in order to prevent similar disasters.
Unfortunately, due to the reprehensible shilly-shallying of some Member States, these Erika I and Erika II packages only entered into force this year and only on 23 July at that.
The Commission has opened legal proceedings against ten Member States that have failed to meet their obligations to notify.
In any event, these measures entered into force far too late to prevent the Prestige disaster and the heavy fuel that it was transporting is still polluting coasts from Galicia to Brittany, including my own region, Aquitaine, with the extremely serious consequences of which we are all aware.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Council to do everything within their power to ensure that the European Supplementary Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, the COPE Fund proposed by the Erika II package is implemented in order to provide additional aid.
Legal proceedings have been opened in both France and Spain, and elsewhere, to establish the true circumstances of the shipwreck and the responsibilities of the various actors involved in this tragedy.
In 2001, 390 oil slicks were illegally deposited in the Baltic, with another 596 in the North Sea.
I very much welcomed your commencement, in July, of proceedings in respect of infringements of the Treaties against ten Member States that have not yet transposed even the measures decided on after Erika.
The Member States did not need the accident that befell the Prestige to make that clear to them.
When improving safety at sea it is essential that the existing international rules are complied with.
The number of consignments of oil passing through the Gulf of Finland from Russia has been increasing very fast.
At the same time, the risk of an accident involving petroleum products in the environmentally highly sensitive area of the Baltic Sea has grown quickly.
It is essential for Baltic traffic that Russia is included in all these agreements on safety at sea.
I furthermore propose that the Commission should draft a communication on the development of traffic networks in the Union's northern area which would also give pride of place to matters of safety at sea.
Mr President, following the sinking of the Prestige, the Erika and of many other petrol or chemical tankers that have caused enormous damage, who would not want to improve maritime safety?
Two years after the accident, Total has also failed to shoulder its responsibilities with regard to the disaster at the AZF factory in Toulouse.
I have been a witness to the dedication, thoroughness and desire to gather all the information, seek solutions for the future and find consensus in the debate within Spain on the Prestige.
Here there are Members and political groups whose intentions will come to an end in March 2004, with the results of the general elections in Spain.
I would like to recall here the rapporteur's words during the last debate in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, where he said that he could not see how there could be a committee of inquiry, that after everything he had studied in drawing up his report and the contributions in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, it would be difficult to push forward the idea of a committee of inquiry.
We know that in Denmark a pilot detected that the Prestige was not seaworthy and yet allowed it to continue sailing; we know that the classification society had clearly not complied with its duties to inspect the repairs; we know that the vessel had carried out a series of bunkering operations, 174 times, and that it cracked in those same places where it had been repaired.
In the report by the Spanish Government, in the hearing attended by the Spanish authorities, in Galicia, etc., only one person is responsible: the Director General of the Merchant Navy, the highest political, professional and technical authority in Spain, and this has been recognised.
From next year the Baltic Sea will in practice be an internal sea of the Union, a sea whose waters are completely replaced only once in a quarter of a century.
At the same time ferry traffic between Helsinki and Tallinn is on the increase, so now we urgently need the proposal promised by the Commissioner for traffic arrangements in this sea.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to take this opportunity of congratulating the rapporteur on the amount of work he has done and on the quality of it.
The report is a balanced assessment of the events surrounding the Prestige disaster and contains sound recommendations, whether on the prevention of such problems in the future or on ways of managing them more effectively.
The rapporteur is right in stating in today's debate that his report deals with safety at sea, now and in future.
It is a logical step to call for new rules and measures.
I shall return to this in a moment.
A major problem in the area of maritime safety is not so much the lack of an international legal framework, but rather the enforcement of the rules and the tracking down of infringements.
The rapporteur is right in noting that Erika legislation has not been able to prevent the Prestige disaster, which is painfully similar to that involving the Erika.
Our first priority should therefore be a swift and complete introduction and, most of all, a strict enforcement of this legislation by the Member States.
Of great importance is the designation of safe havens, as well as the use of reception installations for excess oil in ports, which presuppose adequate payment schemes that are uniform throughout the European Union for effective use.
Moreover, I also have in mind a prevention measure such as the monitoring of dangerous situations and infringements by means of a more extensive application of voice-data recording systems.
These offer scope for prevention, monitoring and assessment of the situation after the event.
The Commission proposal on criminal sanctions for environmental offences, on which I am rapporteur, is very much in keeping with the Sterckx report.
My work on a report will therefore be in vain.
The question that will dominate the next couple of weeks is, how the Commission, Parliament and the Council can be persuaded to adopt a consistent policy.
I want you to take into account the sincere congratulations of our group and I would also like to join in the congratulations for our Commissioner, Loyola de Palacio, for the rigour, efficiency and seriousness she has demonstrated in her work on maritime safety since taking up her position.
There have been very significant proposals and changes and in your report, as has been mentioned here, you put forward 112 issues that are of great importance.
Corridors have been created as have particularly sensitive sea areas from Scotland to the Algarve, where vessels carrying dangerous cargo must report their arrival 48 hours in advance.
I think that that is very important and we must not forget it because the key lies precisely in regulations and compliance.
In my view, Parliament is still responsible for monitoring compliance in each of the Member States.
Monitoring and adapting these proposals is our duty.
Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, that is what the citizens are asking of those of us who represent them here and, first and foremost, Galicians, since they have suffered these consequences at their core to a greater extent than anyone.
A debate of a different type could also promote or encourage with these committees of inquiry interests that have been called mafias here; I would say the oil companies.
That is not our role and indeed we are forbidden from doing so by Article 193 of the Treaty and our Rules of Procedure, as this case is already being examined before the courts.
Mr President, I would like to correct the entirely erroneous assumptions confusing this debate.
Along the whole coast of Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria and the Basque Country, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats lost the last elections, and particularly on the Galician coast... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work, and the Commissioner for her tenacious efforts in this field.
It makes sense, almost a year after the Prestige incident, to assess the situation and see what lessons can be learnt.
Rather than set up a belated temporary Parliamentary committee on the Prestige, however, our responsibility is to implement, on a daily basis, all the democratic controls falling within our competence, as, indeed, we have today.
Thirdly, with respect to legislation, I welcome the Commission proposals to shorten the implementation deadlines for the Erika I and Erika II packages.
The Member States are now responsible for ensuring full and speedy compliance with the regulations enshrining the ban on single hull vessels, more thorough inspections of vessels in our ports, monitoring systems, the list of safe havens and contingency plans in case of accidents.
Finally, a clear timetable for introducing changes to international maritime law must be established.
The one hundred and twelve measures proposed guarantee that things will be brought up to date, and provide for the actions necessary for us to free ourselves from the fear of serious and avoidable dangers such as the Prestige accident - and other previous ones - resulting from transporting dangerous cargoes under maritime safety conditions as precarious and shameful as those which led to the Prestige and other previous accidents.
If the Commission's original Erika package had been implemented, single-hulled tankers like the Prestige would have been replaced by 2002.
Environmental disasters of this magnitude underline the need for an EU coastguard.
The Prestige accident that happened 10 months ago brought about an ecological and economic disaster of exceptional proportions.
The measures laid down in the two Erika packages could have prevented the Prestige disaster.
The first requirement is for Member States to make the Erika legislation that has been adopted part of national law as quickly as possible and monitor its application strictly.
The Commission should propose an amendment to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, for which Parliament would have much to propose.
The Convention does not reflect present maritime reality.
A coastal state is in the best position to monitor ships off its coast and should be given certain powers to take action in exceptional cases.
That will be an important tool, particularly in the protection of the seas.
I myself have proposed that the EU should join the Arctic Council.
The ship sailed to Rotterdam because it is a double-hulled ship that had sunk deeper because the double hull had flooded.
I am going to refer solely to the last fifteen years, because it is since then that we have had the Single Act and therefore majority voting - in the field of transport.
And I am only going to refer to the most spectacular cases. 1987: Casón, Europe, chemical products, 23 dead; 1989: Exxon Valdez, in the United States, 40 000 tonnes of spillage; 1991: Haven, in Europe, 144 000 tonnes of oil; 1992: the Mar Egeo, Europe, 74 000 tonnes of crude oil; 1993: Braer, also in Europe, 85 000 tonnes of spillage; 1996: Sea Empress, 70 000 tonnes of spillage, also in Europe; 1997: in Japan there has been the spillage from the Nakhodka, with 19 000 tonnes of crude oil; in 1999, the Erika spilled 20 000 tonnes of heavy oil in Europe and in 2002, the Prestige, also in Europe, 63 000 tonnes of heavy oil.
There was a Commission, a Parliament and a Council of Ministers and nothing was done.
We had to wait until 1999, with this Commission and this Parliament, for measures to be taken.
In 1981, immediately after the sinking of the Exxon Valdez, the United States implemented the OPA (Oil Pollution Act); if we in Europe, in 1987, 1991 or 1992, had done the same, we would surely have prevented the Braer, the Sea Empress, the Erika and the Prestige accidents, just to mention the most serious cases.
Furthermore, we are monitoring and analysing the ageing of these oil tankers, which have other problems which must be closely monitored, and we must also establish a maximum age and a form of monitoring and inspection from a certain age.
The Commission is determined to deal with this issue and I must say that the government in question, the Spanish Government, has also stressed and reiterated its determination to carry out this recovery.
Fifthly, I referred myself to the social aspect and to the issue of a language for communication on each ship and, of course, the capacity for communication with external control systems.
We have talked about this and we are working on it with a view to making a clear proposal in this regard in the future Prestige II or Erika IV package.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
We are talking about the proposals relating to the security of supply of oil-based products and the supply of natural gas.
The proposal on oil is intended to provide the European Union with the means to act in a united and credible fashion, without difficulties in the supply of oil, in such a way that certain situations which may upset the economy, society and the functioning of the market can be resolved in the most effective way possible.
In order for the European Union to be able to act effectively in these circumstances we must meet three requirements.
The third requirement consists of creating credible and visible security reserves of quality.
In many States, security reserves are the property of oil companies and are not differentiated from their existing operative stocks.
It creates a security network for long-term supply contracts and increases Community solidarity in the event of very exceptional crisis situations which could not be resolved successfully at national level.
The second Directive on the internal market in gas will complete the creation of a single European market in natural gas, and will mean that all customers, including homes and small commercial enterprises, may chose their provider.
And the large industrial consumers will be able to adopt the necessary measures to guarantee security of supply, but not homes or small commercial enterprises.
For these customers, security of supply is not a market issue and does not influence their choice of provider.
Action is considered necessary because greater competition could encourage gas companies to reduce their current levels of security of supply in order to reduce costs and increase their competitiveness.
I would like the European Parliament to take these considerations into account.
They clearly demonstrate the contribution of the Commission's proposal to the good functioning of the internal gas market, as well as the importance of security of supply in a market of this nature.
I was delighted to hear that the European Parliament accepts in principle a mechanism for Community solidarity in the event of an extraordinary crisis in the European Union's gas supply and it goes without saying that in such an event, if national measures are not sufficient to deal with the situation, the Community must be able to resolve the problem in an appropriate manner.
Security of supply in the natural gas sector can certainly be an issue for the European Union, which, taken as a whole, is dependent on imports for some 75% of its natural gas, although - unlike with oil - there is no suppliers' cartel.
That is not the position taken by the main Committee, which proposes that the plenary should send a message to the Commission, the Council, the participants in the market and also to the supplying and producing countries by dealing with the issue in a new and different way, turning the proposal upside down and - let me say this with particular clarity - refraining from creating a category of dirigiste European actions.
The second essential approach should involve addressing the responsibilities of the Member States, which have done, and are able to do, a great deal in this area.
I must at this juncture, Madam Vice-President, make the straightforward point that as recently as 1998 - which is only a couple of years ago - the Commission shared the general consensus that what the Member States do in this area was quite sufficient.
Only in extreme cases and grave crisis situations could European law oblige the Member States to take specific measures - I emphasise that it would be European law that would oblige them to act.
I hope I have not misunderstood what you have just said, but we emphatically repudiate your suggestion that the European level should intervene directly in the government of the Member States, of which there will soon be twenty-five; it cannot do that.
That is how the debate on the proposal for a directive on security of supply for oil in Europe might briefly be formulated.
Most people agree that it is necessary to bring about better coordination of energy supplies in Europe but, at the same time, the Member States want, to a large extent, to maintain control.
My report changes a number of points in the proposal for a directive.
Through a range of amendments, I have tried to find that balance between the Member States and the common interest that is required if we are to achieve a solution that can work well for the oil market and in terms of the needs of the various countries.
The market is not always right.
At the same time, it is incredibly difficult to develop regulations and agree upon clear and objective criteria that apply in all the various situations we can imagine ending up in when oil prices rise quickly.
The committee has adopted a number of amendments that balance Community and national interests.
The majority of my own amendments - the most significant - were adopted.
My amendment is aimed at giving the Member States the opportunity to choose the methods they consider best suit their own countries, without attendant disadvantages for other Member States.
First of all, it has in many ways been shown that there are defects in the present regulations when it comes both to coordination within the EU and to the sharing of responsibility in a crisis situation.
We in our society have become dependent on the supply of oil and gas, products supplied to a large group of consumers by a small group of producers.
It goes without saying that when major interests are at stake in the supply of energy, the proposals must also be well considered.
Parliament has recently discussed, at second reading, the gas directive, which deals with security of supply.
The Commission proposal, however, raises more questions than it can answer.
If we stick with our policy of burning crude oil in an uncontrolled way, this dependency will increase to 95% by 2020.
What is beyond doubt is that the overall availability of crude oil has decreased worldwide since the year 2000.
The fact that we in the EU are starting to think in terms of solidarity and about security of supply is therefore something to be welcomed as a matter of principle.
The EU must develop independent technologies to exploit bio-energy fuels derived from renewable primary energy sources, and, at the same time, make full use of the potential for 18% savings in energy.
The amendment following up the idea of the crude oil price being fixed in euros in future is a very interesting one, but there will have to be some serious thinking about what that means in terms of global politics and economics in general.
We cannot solve our energy problems by changing from oil to gas.
Today, we take relatively low prices for gas and oil for granted, but I believe that, now that shortages are becoming apparent - and oil and gas prices have trebled in recent years - locally-produced renewable energy sources will become a much more competitive proposition.
In terms of the way things hang together generally, I believe that the question as to whether the EU should require security stocks of 90 or 120 days' worth of crude oil is a relatively insignificant one.
The argument that cost considerations militate against keeping sufficient security stocks for 120 days is one that we could certainly discuss.
Quite apart from that, however, it strikes me as illusory to believe - a belief expressed by the Commission in its proposal - that increasing security stocks from 90 to 120 days' worth will help enable us to pursue a proactive crude oil price policy.
If there were to be a real shortage of crude oil, even 120 days' worth of it would bring only minimal relief.
Here, too, it has to be stressed that we have to set out how - on the one hand - we are going to reduce overall consumption of crude oil and natural gas and, on the other hand, to push through the production of substitutes on a sustainable basis.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate something of which I am profoundly convinced, and which has manifested itself in the last few years, that the price of energy can change dramatically over the coming years as a consequence of decreased availability and of the increasing instability in the crude oil-producing countries.
Not only the committee's hearings with experts - over which we took a great deal of trouble - but also the debate with Commission officials and our own reflections have led us to the conclusion that these two proposals from the Commission may well have the right objectives in mind, but the means will not command majority backing.
We take the view that, although there is a need for more solidarity between the Member States and the Commission can certainly do more as regards coordination, the use of Article 95 on the internal market to justify additional competences for the Commission in relation to petroleum products is not appropriate.
During the discussions with the experts, I listened very carefully to the arguments against increasing the reserves from 90 to 120 days, which made clear not only the relatively high cost involved, but also expressed a desire for the reserves to be, in future, provided by the Member States and no longer in collaboration with the oil industry.
Commissioner De Palacio, you threw into the scales a very weighty argument in favour of the directive: the protection of the consumer and of security of supply.
The differing framework conditions existing in the Member States call for individually-tailored measures on the part of the Member States themselves and of the supply companies involved.
As has already been said, it was only a few weeks ago that we adopted, with a great deal of consensus, the directive on the internal market in natural gas.
It is itself a contribution to the security of supply and directly involves enterprises in sharing responsibility for it.
According to the new legislation, it is the Member States that are required to offer security of supply.
Consequently, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I would call for the Commission proposal on oil supply to be rejected and returned to the Commission.
It is unacceptable for this Parliament to issue legislation for which any basis is lacking, while current legislation is sufficient and as long as there is no proof demonstrating the need for new legislation.
I would therefore urge you to support the ELDR Group's position and thwart this superfluous legislation.
I would thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and I thank you all for your attention.
Madam President, Commissioner, it is natural gas that will meet the European Union's growing need for energy in the near future.
Reserves in relatively nearby areas - the North Sea and North Africa - are only sufficient to meet needs for the next 10 or 20 years, and gas will have to be imported from the east.
We have, above all, to safeguard our own interests.
Connected with the problems of liberalising the gas market is the fact that gas market actors are only interested in buying and selling gas, but not in producing gas for investment.
The market runs on too short a time scale, and that is why measures need to be taken by the Member States to guarantee long-term supply contracts.
Responsibility for the security of supply of both oil and gas lies with the Member States, and this responsibility cannot be transferred to market forces.
I do not, in any event, support the most essential measures from the Commission proposal, which I will list below.
The first measure concerns the increase of the level of stocks from 90 to 120 days.
When you know that even the OPEC countries do not manage to maintain the desired price level, this measure can only be described as wishful thinking on the part of the European Union.
Despite this, it seems more helpful to me to withdraw the proposal.
Madam President, I should like to start by commending the rapporteur's work on this portfolio, it is an important matter.
However, the different measures you have brought forward - on liberalising gas and electricity markets, on promoting renewables, on increasing energy efficiency and on developing trans-European energy networks - make clear to me that there is no need to create a additional chapter or legal base on energy, because you have all these instruments available to you already.
The only thing is that I see such a situation as highly unlikely.
It is far more probable that the greatest risk is the economic one set out by the Commission itself in its proposal, that of prices rising, probably creeping upwards.
That is what our main problem will be with gas over the next ten or twenty years.
That is what the Commission has already made a start on, and that makes a lot of sense.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I wish to thank the rapporteurs for drafting these reports.
The amendments adopted by the committee, however, do not as yet go far enough, as has been said here in a good number of speeches.
To improve security of supply we also have to conclude agreements with other countries.
That is why Member States should be able to determine and decide when it is permissible to site oil stocks in another Member State without jeopardising security of supply.
Siting security stocks abroad must, however, be carried out on the basis of contracts between the countries and in compliance with current practice.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our debate this evening proves once again that energy is not a commodity like any other.
The fate of the Alstom Group's 120 000 employees can no more be guaranteed by free competition than the future of energy and its independence - and thus Europe's political independence - can be by simply enforcing the rules and principles of the free market.
I am in favour of larger gas and oil reserves which, in the event of serious shortage, could prevent potential recourse to war in a world in which, as we know, the control of energy is often the primary cause of war.
As regards management, I am also in favour of greater solidarity between States during shortages, under the auspices of the European Commission, in order to avoid political tensions or even conflicts between Member States where those that are best provided for are able to impose their choices on others.
If I am actually to leave security of supply in the hands of the regions and of enterprises, then this has to be clearly documented and the citizens and consumers concerned have to know how it is to be secured.
Madam President, just how serious the issue of energy supplies is can be seen from the recent imperialist invasion in Iraq and the squabbling both before and after over how to divide up the spoils.
The main issue in the new directive is not whether compulsory reserves will be for three or four months, but the fact that controls of reserves and regulatory competence are being shifted from the Member States to the European Commission.
If this is accepted, it will undermine still further the facility for energy planning based on the needs of each Member State and will result in an energy sector structured in accordance with the choices of the strong powers of the European Union.
The Communist Party of Greece believes that every country should take measures to reduce energy dependency, make full use of domestic sources and develop and exploit new forms of energy, with the objective of securing cheap supplies for the working classes and protecting the environment.
It is, however, more than clear that the sine qua non to such energy planning is a radically different social and economic framework.
However, I believe that this debate on energy security has never been so important.
Recently the Institution of Civil Engineers said that the UK could face power cuts in 20 years' time because of its dependency on foreign energy sources.
Although Member States certainly have responsibilities for securing their own energy supplies, the need for cooperation early in a crisis situation will be vital.
As Mr Mitchell, from the UK's Royal Institute of International Affairs has stated, the key to energy security lies in diversity of supply.
The proposal before us today is intended to replace existing European Union directives which govern this important energy policy matter.
We live in an internal market and there must be solidarity between the Member States and the European Union in the event of energy supply problems.
The main feature of the Commission proposal is to ensure that Member States set a minimum level of oil stocks for a period of 120 days.
The Commission will be assisted in its work by a committee made up of representatives of Member States.
On 1 May 2004 we will be living in a Community of up to 25 Member States.
I believe that there is a role for the Commission in dealing with this sensitive issue and that this energy matter is best coordinated at European Union level in the interests of European industry and the citizens of the European Union. . (ES) Madam President, having listened very carefully to your speeches, I understand that, as we say in Spanish, el entusiasmo es totalmente descriptible [enthusiasm is entirely describable].
No, if I do not have the support of this House, I will promote other types of initiative and I simply hope that the time never comes for me to say, 'I told you so', because that would mean amongst other things that we do not have any really serious crisis in the energy sector.
Nevertheless, there are two or three things that I would like to clear up, because I have heard several questions which do not really correspond to the texts which I have proposed.
Firstly, the proposal on oil stocks is not intended to play with prices or intervene in them.
Because when there is a break in supply and there is a 7% shortage in the market, we have a major problem.
Well, I will explain it very simply: let us imagine that there is an oil crisis and the International Energy Agency says 'let us use the mechanisms'.
And this is all very well while there is no totally integrated market as in the case of the European Union.
When it comes to the field of gas, what I am proposing is that there should be systems and plans essentially relating to management, because in the case of gas we are not just talking about reserves, but in particular of management, in order to guarantee that the consumers whose lives depend on gas do not have shortages and that they have a guaranteed minimum number of days of supply under all circumstances.
Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about is improving security of supply and the functioning of the internal energy market and, therefore, of strengthening the European Union from the point of view not just of guarantees to consumers but also of its economic capacities.
This is very clear and all I believe is that, tomorrow, you should consider your decisions very carefully before voting, because I believe there is room to improve the current situation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The list of European safe third states includes the current 15 EU Member States and the 12 accession countries, as well as Norway, Iceland and Switzerland.
The committee points out that, respecting the subsidiarity principle, any criteria for drawing up a list of safe third states must be seen as minimum standards, which allow the Member States to enforce higher standards.
The committee also emphasises that the issue of safe third states is dealt with in the Directive on Asylum Procedures and should be dealt with there in the future too.
I would also like to make it clear that this is not a Commission initiative.
The Austrian initiative, however, poses a complex problem related to the use in the European asylum system of the concept of safe third countries.
The Council has consulted experts who have analysed this issue, and I can say that there is an agreement in principle within the Council in favour of discussing this matter more thoroughly during the next Council meeting on 2-3 October.
This is the question of deciding whether a provision of this kind for safe third countries will be included in the directive.
From the Commission's point of view, moreover, the Council will have to consult Parliament once again on the asylum procedures directive as a whole, including in that consultation any possible provision on safe third countries or safe countries of origin which might eventually come to be included in that directive - which, as I said, has still not been ratified.
If this principle is indeed always adhered to, and if there are enough of what we term safe third states, then what will be achieved is the distribution of asylum seekers over many countries and, as a result, speedy decisions enabling a person to know whether or not he is actually going to receive the support due to a refugee.
The present situation is unsatisfactory.
I take a favourable view of it, and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, too, fully supports the substance of an initiative that will give us, in future, a list of safe third states.
The fact is that even after Parliament had made a statement on the matter, we were not subsequently consulted about the revised Commission initiative, amended on 18 June 2002.
Europe should have specially adapted instruments at its disposal in order to get the asylum problem under control.
In Belgium, for example, more than 98% of the asylum applications turn out to be unfounded.
It is therefore surprising that the report should question the way in which the list of safe countries relates to the principle of the individual treatment as enshrined in the Geneva Treaty.
This Convention dates back to 1951 and its principal object was to receive refugees from Communist dictatorships.
We have, on more than one occasion, however, drawn the attention of this House to the problems raised by this type of initiative on the part of Member States occupying the rotating Presidency, since they are often dictated more by internal political exigencies than by an overview either of Community interests or of the healthy development of the legislative framework of the area of freedom, security and justice.
I will also repeat something I have already said once before in this House.
It is important to underline the Commission's role in intelligently implementing the scoreboard established for that area of freedom, security and justice.
It is with that goal in mind, moreover, the goal of the Directive on that procedure, that we must examine, analyse and debate all of these issues.
Simply by having a list we are contravening Article 3 of the Geneva Convention, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, religion, or country of origin.
Not considering a claimant's request for asylum on the basis of a list of 'safe' countries really amounts to denying a refugee his or her most fundamental right, the right to be a fully accepted individual with inalienable rights.
I will conclude by saying that there is an urgent need for a European directive in the field of asylum procedure and above all for a concerted Community policy.
Without this fundamental legal basis our actions will not allow us to be coherent.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, as a former United Kingdom Immigration Minister, I would be the first to recognise that one of the most difficult processes in the immigration system arises when one has to remove a person who has gone through all the legal processes and no longer has a legal right to remain - or has not provided a legal reason to remain - in a Member State and has to be returned to the place from whence they came.
This is something we also wish to achieve through our work.
Officials have experienced frustration and difficulty over this, not only in Britain but indeed in most EU Member States.
Nor is it a measure that tries to be ambitious or reviews the whole issue of asylum procedures as such, or indeed asylum criteria.
I have tried my best in committee to make sure that all political groups and Members are taken along with me in the work that I have done.
I am proud to be the rapporteur of this report because, in my view, it clearly demonstrates that, regardless of differing political views on Europe, its future role and so on, there are many areas like this where we can work together in friendly and effective cooperation, in a way that makes a real practical difference to many people: both those who are dependent on our care and those who have to implement our rules and regulations.
For that reason alone, I am very pleased with this report and the reaction to it.
I hope that it will be fully supported in the House tomorrow. . (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the keynote of the Council's action plan on repatriation, adopted last November on the basis of a communication from the Commission, is the need for closer operational cooperation between the authorities responsible for implementing legislation in the Member States.
The German initiative on the table today, on transit for the purposes of removal by air, has been described as one of the implementing measures required to that end.
The Commission does in fact believe that a common framework should be laid down for questions pertaining to transit during the repatriation process, which is why the Commission supports the German proposal.
It is important to establish a clear legal framework for transit procedure in such cases, relating, for example, to the use of escorts and the individual competences of the transit airport.
Negotiations on these initiatives have already begun among working parties in the Council.
This is a subject we have debated many times over the years, arguing that any such policy should proactively promote legal immigration, running alongside an effective campaign against illegal immigration and the traffic in human beings.
This proposal for a directive aims, therefore, to lay down measures that may be taken by the competent authorities to assist with escorted or unescorted removals at European transit airports.
Transit may be refused if the third-country national faces the threat of inhumane or humiliating treatment, torture or the death penalty, or if his life or liberty would be at risk by reason of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political conviction.
As regards illegal immigration, we have seen an increase in the number of initiatives by Member States.
The Council must continue to press for the adoption of the proposals which remain on the table.
The proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of paid employment and self-employed economic activities was blocked in the Council.
The proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, vocational training or voluntary service has not yet been presented to the Council working group.
As many Members have pointed out, the proposal fails to address the very important issue of how we deal with people who are deemed to be illegally within our countries in the European Union.
Different countries have very different perceptions.
It is also no surprise, for example in London, the region I represent, that the Metropolitan Police wants to distance itself from the role of the immigration services when it comes to deportations, because the issue of measures necessary for self-defence is highly contentious in virtually every Member State.
The objective of Germany's initiative is to improve cooperation between Member States where the implementation of deportation orders is concerned.
As the rapporteur has already pointed out, this initiative goes about regulating this tricky topic in the right way.
The deportation of people - as the minority opinion clearly demonstrates - remains a contentious topic, but, in for a penny, in for a pound.
In my view, the proposal safeguards the rights of these people and at the same time, facilitates cooperation between the Member States.
Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to say something about the selected legal basis, Article 63.
The appended opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is right to see this legal basis as consistent.
In my view, though, a political wish for more power should not stand in the way of, or slow down, effective legislation drafted on the basis of the correct legal basis.
If the European Union is to establish and implement, in a credible way, a policy on legal immigration and an effective asylum policy, it must ensure that illegal immigration and the abuse of asylum meet with consequences and that those whose applications for asylum have been rejected, who have gone right through the legal system and have not been recognised as refugees, must leave the country.
It is clear that these expulsion measures are, in practice, rarely carried out with the respect and dignity that each individual has the right to expect, in particular from this European body, which so often sets itself up as a paragon in the field of human rights.
On the other hand, when we send back or remove these people, we often ignore what is awaiting them on their return to their country and I think that we are showing a shameful indifference to the responsibilities that we have been given.
Underlying this text, at the heart of the expulsions there are people in transit, men and women who have a right to safety and respect.
As regards more specifically the conditions for expulsion and residence of third-country nationals, I would like to bring to your attention two very important points.
Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that we need to put the various directives that we have been dealing with for almost two years into practice, so as to ensure that our policies show our unconditional respect for the right to dignity, fundamental rights and our rejection of any act that could be an attack on physical or moral integrity of people and so that we can finally have a credible and honourable immigration policy at European level.
The debate is closed.
