in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the outstanding report by my excellent Czech colleague Miroslav Ouzký on the International Health Regulations, revised in 2005 by the General Assembly of the World Health Organisation (WHO).
It is essential to support the development of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), established in 2004, and the European early warning and response system for public health threats, which must encourage rapid and coherent application in the EU Member States of the International Health Regulations (IHR).
The EU also has a few financial tools at its disposal, for example the European Union Solidarity Fund and the action programme for public health as a new instrument for early warning and response in the case of serious emergencies.
in writing. - (PT) The International Health Regulations adopted by the WHO (World Health Organisation) are a new instrument aimed at protecting world health.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report.
It also examines the existence and role of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the Early Warning and Response System for public health threats (EWRS).
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by several political groups including the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (PPE-DE) on the EU objectives for the 8th meeting of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, to be held in Madrid from 3 to 14 September 2007.
As we know desertification affects 20-30% of the world's land area and 1.2 - 2 billion people - many of whom are in deep poverty - in at least 100 states.
in writing. - I supported the resolution in order to press for further action to address this growing problem.
I shall, in any case, demonstrate with others for freedom of speech and against the advance of Islam next Tuesday, 11 September right outside the European Parliament.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my Spanish colleague Elena Valenciano Martínez-Orozco on the functioning of the dialogues and consultations on human rights with third countries.
in writing. - (FR) The report by Elena Valenciano on the functioning of the human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries has just been adopted by a large majority and I congratulate the rapporteur on her thorough work.
in writing. - I supported this report, which calls on the Commission and Council to ensure a greater degree of coherence in the EU's human rights dialogues with third countries.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of adoption of the report on the functioning of the human rights dialogues and consultations on human rights with third countries.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the very good own-initiative report by my excellent Spanish colleague Carmen Fraga Estévez in response to the Commission communication on the implementation of sustainable fishing in the EU on the basis of maximum sustainable yield (MSY).
in writing. - (PT) The sustainability of fishery resources is essential for guaranteeing fishing activity and the viability of the fishing industry in the long term.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague Béatrice Patrie on the Green Paper on the review of the consumer acquis, taking into account, in particular, the stated objective of modernising, simplifying and improving the regulatory framework for professionals and private individuals, thereby facilitating cross-border trade and increasing consumer confidence.
We have therefore decided to vote in favour in the final vote.
in writing. - (FR) I was unable to vote in favour of the Patrie report because of the wording of paragraph 2, which recommends that Directive 2000/31/EC on certain legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce, be revised.
