Commission Question Time The next item is Question Time (B6-0013/2008).
Madam President, that is the problem, because the question, on WTO talks, was clearly for Commissioner Mandelson.
In our recent forecasts, presented on 21 February, we talked about 2% growth for the European Union this year, and 1.8% for the euro area.
With regard to external trade, the most recent figures published by Eurostat show that, for 2007, the initial estimate talks about a trade deficit in the European Union of 27 of EUR 185 000 million, which is a substantial trade deficit, but in any event lower than many of the other areas of industrialised countries, and the euro area has a trade surplus of EUR 28 300 million.
Member of the Commission. - (ES) No, I cannot give you such specific and detailed calculations as you are asking for.
Thus far, the impact on exports is very small, not to say that it has not been felt until now, but as we have said on many occasions, especially recently when the exchange markets have been extremely volatile, we feel that the changes in and volatility of exchange rates as they affect us as Europeans are reaching limits that are causing us great concern, and we need to remind all the other players in the global economy that excessive volatility in the exchange markets is undesirable, because it has negative consequences in terms of growth and economic activity, for everyone. - (LT) Businesses are influenced not only by international crises, but also, as has just been mentioned, by currency exchange rates.
Member of the Commission. - (ES) As the honourable Member knows, the exchange markets, in the vast majority of countries, and in particular in more advanced industrialised economies, are governed by flexible exchange rates.
What is desirable is for all the players, all those that are part of the global economy, and in particular, the exchange markets, to keep to the guidelines that we agreed in the G7, in the International Monetary Fund, in the multilateral consultations, that took place a year ago now, in order to try to deal with the global imbalances in the economy.
The Commission has looked at the point you raised and has consulted DG Trade and DG AGRI and in their estimation, I am afraid, your question falls within the competence of Commissioner Fischer Boel.
Subject: Legal downloads of songs from the Internet On 28 January 2008, an agreement was signed between the three biggest record companies (EMI, Universal Music and Warner Music) to make 25 million songs available on the Qtrax website for free downloading by users.
I am sure that this is the case in the Committee on Culture and Education, of which you are vice-chairman, Mr Mavrommatis. (ES) Commissioner, I assume that you know that in some States there is a method for paying authors' rights that involves establishing a charge that must be paid by all those who buy equipment to record or reproduce material, or buy CDs or DVDs.
I wanted to ask you whether you think that this method is acceptable, when there are many people who buy such equipment or DVDs and do not use them either to download music or to reproduce anything that affects authors' rights.
The Bali Conference was a significant step in the effort to confront climate change at world level.
The Commission therefore proposes that this question should be examined thoroughly and that a list of vulnerable sectors or industries be drawn up by 2010.
By June 2011 the Commission will assess the situation in these energy-intensive industries.
On the basis of this assessment, the Commission will submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council in 2011 and, if deemed necessary, will propose additional measures.
What we have decided is that, by 2010, we shall identify with objective criteria which are these sectors, and by June 2011 we shall assess the situation of whether we have an international agreement or even international sectoral agreements.
Actually, our first concern will be that we shall not permit the relocation of sectors or industries outside the European Union, not only because we are going to lose jobs and we are going to create employment problems but also because we do not want to carry on emitting and polluting in countries that do not have carbon restraints as we have.
Regarding the World Trade Organisation position on carbon tariffs, we do not know their position, because the question has not arisen, but, after examination within the European Union, we think that there is no problem, because what we have tried to do with the inclusion in the emissions trading system, which is a bit different from border tax, is to equalise the situation.
Part two Subject: Intercultural dialogue in EU In this Year of Intercultural Dialogue in the EU the Commission has planned many events.
Member of the Commission. - (SK) Thank you, Madam President and thanks also to Mr Burke for his question.
In relation to the 27 individual governments, what programme have you asked them to get involved in with regard to supporting what the Commission is doing?
Member of the Commission. - I said that this is a common cause, a common endeavour, and there are many good ideas and ongoing initiatives at European and national level, plus many at regional and municipal level.
I do not intend to read out the projects themselves; they are quite inspirational - especially at EU level - because these were selected from many at EU level, and they are very different to those as the level of the Member States.
Some of the events should be organised in the premises of Parliament in Brussels, with the participation of parliamentarians and, of course, young people from all countries including non-EU members.
I think there is something specific there that could be drawn on, and I would ask the Commission whether it has looked at it and, if not, could they do so.
Subject: German-Czech-Austrian cultural cooperation What trilateral or bilateral cross-border cultural cooperation projects has the Commission supported between the Czech Republic, Germany and Austria during the past year, and does it see any possibilities for assisting such projects on a significant scale in 2008?
Member of the Commission. - (SK) Madam President, allow me to thank Mr Bernd Posselt for his question.
As regards the specific projects of these three Member States financed last year, I would like to point out that the Culture Programme (2007 to 2013) has only been up and running for a little over a year.
However, events in the regions are also very important and I therefore have two short supplementary questions.
Member of the Commission. - (SK) As I said before, under the new Culture Programme there must be three partners from three countries involved in short, one-year programmes; more partners are needed for programmes running for several years.
This programme promotes the involvement of civil society, and its legal basis, inter alia, is Article 151 of the EC Treaty, promoting citizenship defined in cultural terms or with a cultural dimension.
This should happen at local level, where people live.
Member of the Commission. - (SK) Thank you for the additional questions.
I do not want my answer to be too long.
In my response to Mr Bernd Posselt, I referred to the Europe for Citizens Programme 2007-2013.
I think that this is a very important challenge because it helps us to remember that all that we have - freedom, democracy, a united Europe - has not just happened by chance or by default and that there is always a certain temptation, be it smaller or greater, to move towards totality and a form of simplification.
Questions 38 to 40 will therefore be answered in writing.
The debate on the Lamfalussy Process was allowed to run 30 minutes into Question Time.
Subject: Economic Partnership Agreements The expiry of the 1 January 2008 deadline regarding Economic Partnership Agreements with ACP countries has given rise to considerable uncertainty in these countries.
Subject: Partnership agreements with developing countries Most ACP countries have signed economic partnership agreement (EPAs) with the EU.
Member of the Commission. - Things have moved on since the Commission's update to the Committee on Development in January of this year.
Member of the Commission. - Guatemala, when I last looked at the list of ACP countries, is not included in their number.
