It will be recalled that there was one particular vote in the plenary session on my report that was resolved by a majority of one vote.
This has profound implications for this House, for ACP countries and for Europe as a whole.
I say profound implications because this House wants more and more democratic accountability.
Mr President, Mr Evans has just referred to yesterday morning' s vote, specifically to the vote at which certain amendments were adopted by a majority of one.
I believe it is as well for Parliament to keep to the current Rules because, as another Member rightly said, very often it is not the machines that did not work but the Members that forgot to vote; if we were able to correct a vote after the event, we would never see the end of it.
We had a good example in the final vote on Mr Evans' report.
I should also like to refer to the 19 amendments we have before us on this report.
As Feuerbach said: "der Mensch ist, was er isst", man is what he eats.
We are what we eat - and sadly that is true in my case.
My report proposes the establishment of a European Food Safety Agency which should be authoritative, independent, objective, accountable, transparent and intelligible.
Its task is risk assessment and then giving advice on that risk management.
The director of the ESFA is key.
There needs to be an annual report and presentation to Parliament and risk reports coming to the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
Scientists need to give a report on assessment to the board who then makes sure that it is in terms the consumers understand, add any recommendations on risk management and submit it to the Commission and to us.
I thank my colleagues of all parties and all Member States.
I thank the Commission and its staff.
I thank the Council and the French Presidency for their messages of support.
We have here a proposal which can work to improve the safety of our foods, to restore the confidence of the public in our respective nations.
Both this food authority and the legislative proposals being proposed, which aim to guarantee food safety, will receive the support of this House, Commissioner.
But I would like to draw attention to a fundamental issue: the best possible legislation and an excellent, scientifically unimpeachable food authority are not enough.
We may have other food crises and, each time this happens, consumer safety will be endangered, as will the credibility of the institutions and the interests of the agricultural sector and the agri-foodstuffs industry.
I therefore ask the Commission what it plans to do in order to make the objectives of the White Paper reality.
Recent experience has shown that the series of crises is not due to a lack of scientific knowledge nor to a lack of ad hoc legislation.
All in all, Commissioner, along with the authority, the relevant Commission services must, in collaboration and coordination with the Member States, establish a system of efficient, standardised controls throughout the food chain, and the network of food laboratories in the European Union must be improved and their work coordinated with the Commission.
Setting up the European Food Safety Agency is a major step in the right direction.
Its key task is providing scientific advice, for the discussion on food safety must be pure too.
The food authority must provide objective information to both consumers and decision makers.
Finally, my Committee argues in favour of a strategy for third countries and candidate countries.
First, there is no doubt that legal provisions in the field of food safety and animal feed safety need to be simplified.
Furthermore, they are right to demand that they have an important say, through their Parliament, when food and animal feed safety with a view to protecting their health is at stake.
We must make it clear, however, that the rapid alert system and the implementation of the measures must fall within the field of political responsibility.
That is where the European Commission, the Council and the European Parliament come into play.
It must be independent with regard to the Member States, the European institutions and the agro-food industry.
I have also had an opportunity to discuss this with Commissioner David Byrne.
To conclude, the brief of the European Food Safety Agency must be confined to food safety.
Mr President, quite often a parliamentary colleague is given a report and you envy him or her.
We have a stark reminder this week of why we are all here and why this legislation is going through in the report in my own country - the Phillips Committee of Inquiry into the disaster, indeed scandal, of BSE.
To have such a body introduced in the European Parliament as part of a raft of similar measures, which will increase our concern and care for food safety in the European Union, is a good outcome to what has been a sad tale.
I will mention briefly the key amendments which I commend to the House and the Commissioner and which I hope we can see voted through today.
We want the EFSA to have a board which has a balanced representation of people in consumer affairs, public health and all possible areas of scientific and agricultural knowledge.
Of course many of them will have had links with the food industry, links with science elsewhere.
That is understandable and natural, but we need to know how and who and where and we should be able to do so.
We must wait patiently for the Commission to come forward with legislation on other matters in the food safety area - PCB standards, food labelling, allergy labelling, action on nutrition policy and the amending legislation we need for processed baby foods and infant formulae.
Finally, we will also be supporting a number of the new amendments, certainly Amendments Nos 11-13, 7-9 and we wish to have a free vote on Amendment No 14.
The report is right to draw a distinction between risk analysis on the one hand and risk management on the other.
That means that when Food Safety Agency safety is examined, all products are taken into consideration, and I would refer to Paragraph 11 of the resolution in this connection.
These crises, such as BSE and dioxin, have become a real problem for society and lead to a loss of consumer confidence in the food they eat.
Any initiative to help identify these risks is therefore a move in the right direction.
As it often does, the Commission is proposing regulatory measures to remedy or alleviate the adverse effects of a policy for which it is frequently jointly responsible, without in any way questioning its own basic approach.
But let us make sure we leave it to the Member States to manage these risks and to apply the precautionary principle in a reasonable and proportionate manner.
Indeed, who better than the Member States to carry out adequate local checks?
Who better than the Member States to distinguish genuinely dangerous products from those deriving from our different food cultures, even when they pose no health risk at all?
Let us ask it to make recommendations to the political authorities responsible for risk management.
Mr President, it is clear that there is considerable enthusiasm for the establishment of a European Food Safety Agency, as our rapporteur would prefer to call it.
In the UK, as in many other countries, we have now set up our own agency amidst similar enthusiasm.
It started work this year and many had high expectations of it.
This notwithstanding, it may come as a surprise to Members that I support the concept of a pan-European approach to food safety, which is embodied in the concept of the EFSA.
Despite so often being branded as a "little Englander" by my British colleagues, I have no difficulty in acknowledging that germs know no boundaries.
Thus, despite the enthusiasm for yet another EU agency, any effective control programme must look beyond the limited vision of a mere 15 states.
Since 1984 we have had the highly effective World Health Organisation's surveillance programme for the control of food-borne infections and intoxications in Europe, based in Berlin at the Von Ostertag-Institut.
Interestingly, unlike the little Europeans who are so often behind this EU project, the WHO's concept of Europe originally embraced 32 countries, which included the former Soviet Union and has since expanded to include all countries from the Urals to the Atlantic, from Iceland to Israel.
As a result, many of the control initiatives which have subsequently been adopted in Europe, have originated in other countries, particularly the USA.
Risk assessment must start where the problems starts.
That is precisely what the WHO does for us: working with its regional organisations in a wholly integrated manner.
Given that the WHO programme remains properly funded and supported, there would appear to be no need whatsoever for yet another agency, especially one with such a limited reach as the 15 Member States of the European Union.
But we need to avoid a situation in which the future European Food Safety Agency and, for example, the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin have overlapping responsibilities and powers.
Not only the Commission, but also every Member State must be legally able to call upon this agency.
This principle must be consistently adhered to when the planned review of EU legislation on food labelling is carried out.
Reliable risk assessment requires comprehensive analyses and reference measurements.
The Joint Research Centre's Health and Consumer Protection Institute is currently also carrying out pan-European quality and safety checks on food, and is amongst other things testing food for contamination and carrying out reference measurements for agricultural products and foodstuffs.
Substantial financial means are needed for all these measures.
I wish to thank the rapporteur for that.
It was high time that the Commission produced the White Paper to follow the Green Paper published many years ago now.
We need to apply stricter legislation, stricter guidelines and stricter criteria to animal feed.
Without a new framework directive we will be helpless in many areas of food safety.
I therefore want to discuss Amendment No 16.
When food safety is threatened, both public health and the common market are placed in jeopardy.
We believe that its main task must be that of assessing food safety risks and that its core activity must be that of providing scientific advice.
The White Paper is a political paper for those in positions of responsibility in food production.
National peculiarities should not only be respected, but actually encouraged.
The Commission will have to provide more concrete answers to these questions in its continued work.
The usefulness of the authority to be established is undeniable, both in terms of monitoring and in terms of prevention, for which, in any case, the precautionary principle does not provide adequate practical guidance.
A further aspect is the organic revision of the labelling rules for both wholesale and retail selling, which will at last provide the consumer with correct information regarding products' traceability and make it possible to identify where responsibility lies in the event of risk or crises.
In short, it will be important to see how its independence and transparency are reconciled with the fact that no current resources have been allocated to it, with its subordination to the Commission, on the one hand, and with its authority to act autonomously and the membership of its board of directors on the other.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, I would like to start by thanking our friend, John Bowis, for his excellent work on the White Paper on food safety and, in particular, for including the various amendments tabled by different political groups.
The establishment of a European Food Safety Agency will contribute greatly to achieving a high level of protection of citizens' health.
The network must be as close to the citizens as possible and, in this way, their faith will be restored in the European national institutions.
Mr President, Parliament's vote marks the end of this first stage of consultation on food safety issues.
I just hope that it will not also mark the end of the will to intervene rapidly and effectively in a sector which affects the daily lives of the citizens so closely and which is one of the principle benchmarks of our capacity to restore their faith in politics and in the institutions.
A European food strategy cannot be reduced merely to the creation of a monitoring authority and the application of a few - albeit necessary - health and hygiene rules.
There is an indissoluble relationship between eating healthily and eating well, a relationship of which consumers must be made more aware in order to promote quality and support the typical local products which are one of the great assets of the peoples of Europe.
With the vote in the Committee on the Environment, we have succeeded in re-establishing a certain balance, including in the scope of the resolution nutrition issues and certain significant references to the role of small and medium-sized businesses in safeguarding diverse dietary habits.
I therefore believe that your Amendment No 11 and my Amendment No 17 are perfectly reconcilable.
I would single out two of these: we urgently need PCB standards at European level, as well as a positive list of ingredients of animal feed.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for assembling the amendments of all the groups - as other members have said - in the compromise amendments.
I think he is pursuing an obvious objective which is - as he says in his document - that of guaranteeing the high levels of food safety that should exist, and a second objective that derives from the first, which is to say that of restoring credibility in the eyes of the consumer, which has been somewhat dented by scandals.
I would like to remind you of one that occurred in Spain, the rape seed oil scandal - the consequences of which are still apparent now, after more than 20 years - but also the BSE scandal, the dioxin scandal and the latest worrying scandal in the United States regarding the release, for use in food products, of transgenic sweetcorn that would seem to be unsuitable for consumption.
However, having said that, I believe it is to the credit of this Parliament and Commissioner Byrne that food safety now dominates the European agenda.
The reform of European Union food laws would be carried out at the level of the European Union.
We want to avoid a situation where there may be a renationalisation of food purchasing within the European Union.
That is why it is so important that food safety laws are enforced at European Union level.
However, I fully support the introduction of clear, non-technical and standardised labelling in the context of GMO food products.
It can and must signal the start of a new beginning.
From now on, the policy will be tackled in a coordinated and integrated manner and will embrace the entire food chain.
I welcome the fact that rapporteur Bowis, who has done sterling work, has opted for a positive approach to the White Paper.
For example, it is right to stress that the food authority should first and foremost concentrate on food safety.
A second justified emphasis is the request for consideration to be given to regional and cultural differences in the food supply and to the role of the SME and the traditional trades in question.
Both the White Paper and the Bowis report mention communication on the one hand and procedures in emergency situations on the other, but there is no attention to the internal and external crisis communication which is so desperately needed.
It can nevertheless - and we have first-hand experience of this in Belgium - be a determining factor in managing the extent of a crisis and in whether consumer confidence in the institutions survives or not.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the White Paper on food safety has laid a firm basis for better food in future and I am also hopeful of more environmentally-friendly and people-friendly production of food.
But I also understand that the many crises in Europe, and I also refer to my own country, have shown that we mainly need something to hold on to.
I can understand if food safety has to be the point of departure, but surely links must be established with other areas, such as the environment, health and such like.
I hope that an energetic, future authority can get this dynamic going.
This is in the interests of consumers, but also, at the same time, the food chain in Europe.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has now come to adopt a reasonable policy, as there is now the desire to create a scientific, authoritative body from the Food Safety Agency, which would have responsibility for risk assessment and keeping the public informed.
The agency must be located somewhere well-connected in terms of transport and information technology, and the area in question should have a good reputation in the area of food safety.
Support from the surrounding scientific community will also be an important factor when choosing a location.
For that reason, I support Amendment Nos 14 and 19, which express a desire for principled guidance in deciding a future location.
It is, however, important to define what we expect from the Food Safety Agency and what sort of criteria should apply in selecting its location.
They include good reputation in the field of food safety, independence, and good scientific infrastructure incorporating the best available technology and good transport and telecommunications links.
These criteria will all be essential tools in realising the common aim to restore consumer confidence in European food safety as soon as possible.
The White Paper on food safety is a proposal which aspires to restore consumer confidence in the entire food chain.
This is why the new European Food Safety Agency must become a powerful and independent body which does not only inform the public but is also given specific powers to propose effective measures in good time and to investigate problems in the event of a crisis.
In the final analysis, decisions must be taken by the European Commission, and Parliament must, for example by means of a discussion on the annual report, remain involved in the work of the agency.
I believe they succeeded in this extremely well, and we shall now welcome legislation in this field as soon as possible.
Mr President, while the European food chain is one of the safest in the world, poor practice, and indeed recent scandals, have set an agenda to which our Commissioner, Mr Byrne, has responded admirably.
The EU must have the highest possible standards of food safety for its citizens.
Food safety and public health are key political priorities.
European action is appropriate because in a single market risk does not stop at national borders.
The EFSA should play an important role in the existing Rapid Alert System, which should be improved and extended to cover all areas of food safety, including animal feed.
The limited quantity of food we still allow ourselves must first and foremost be healthy, taste good and be produced in an environmentally sound way in consumers' eyes.
In the European single market, which implies free trade and movement of goods, we are increasingly faced with the issue of legislative jurisdiction and responsibility for controls in this area, which is so important for the European public.
But this concept also plays a key role in food safety.
The consistency of the White Paper on food safety leaves something to be desired in places.
But I intend to ask whether those cards should have been dealt at all.
We already have food safety agencies in most Member States.
We have scientific committees advising the Commission.
The location of the agency should therefore be not in Barcelona, Helsinki or Italy, but on the Internet, in cyberspace.
There must be clear arrangements governing the Agency's cooperation with the Joint Research Centre in Ispra and the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin.
You must prevent several institutions carrying out similar work in parallel.
You should also use the White Paper to enforce strict rules in the Member States.
If the proposals for over 80 legislative measures are much the same as the hygiene rules I have now received as rapporteur, then I am very optimistic.
However, Commissioner, when it comes to the provisions on labelling, please think again about your ideas ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Bowis on his excellent work.
However, it is also necessary to call for a balanced approach to the issue because Articles 152 and 153 of the Treaty on European Union provide, as a general rule, for a high level of protection of human health and of consumers.
We must therefore ensure that the European Union has the highest possible food safety standards, but in taking this approach - which we unanimously uphold - we must also analyse the economic implications for the sectors involved in production.
Article 2 of the Treaty states that the Union is committed to promoting the harmonious, balanced, sustainable development of economic activities.
Therefore, any legislative measure concerning a sector such as the food sector, which is one of the driving forces of European industry - accounting for 15% of the total output of the manufacturing sector and employing 2.5 million workers - must be evaluated on the basis of this twin consideration, since both principles are intended to guarantee the general well-being of the Community.
Any consumer protection operation only becomes feasible in terms of profit when it avoids unduly damaging the general economic well-being of the Community through placing disproportionate barriers in the way of the sector's production processes and therefore hampering economic growth and growth in employment.
Mr President, developing an independent European Food Safety Agency is a major objective which must be achieved in conjunction with the national structures responsible for monitoring.
We must, however, ensure that in the wake of the debate on the White Paper, the fear of a bureaucratic Europe which concerns itself with the quality of products without doing anything effective to combat fraud that threatens the health of the consumer is not reinforced in the mind of the public.
A strategy which covers the entire food chain, from farming to production and distribution, could facilitate further economic concentration to the detriment of smaller companies and companies producing typical products, without creating any real advantage for the consumers.
The objective of food safety can and must fit in with this grass-roots situation which, as a large number of Members have stressed, is of cultural as well as economic value.
Upon careful examination of the White Paper in the Member States and here in Parliament, it will then be given legislative status in the form of a new draft directive.
Amendments have been tabled to that effect.
As you are aware, the Commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety.
I must give special thanks to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and its rapporteur, John Bowis, for producing this opinion with such a degree of consensus and pay particular tribute to him and to the other Members of this House who have taken the time to discuss these issues with me and with my officials.
European consumers have every right to expect the highest achievable food safety standards and our ambition is to develop systems that deliver this.
Several proposals are already before the Council and Parliament: for example, the package of proposals recasting and updating the hygiene legislation.
The White Paper reiterates the Commission's commitment to basing its proposals for consumer health protection measures on sound science.
Indeed, the food authority is conceived as a point of scientific excellence at the service of the Community in its broadest sense: consumers, the institutions and Member States alike.
The food authority will also need to be visible to the general public and be the authoritative voice in matters relating to the scientific aspects of food safety in Europe.
The Commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation establishing the overarching principles and objectives of food law, which will provide the framework for future health protection measures relating to food.
This proposal will put forward the establishment of a European Food Safety Agency which will provide the Community with advice on scientific and technical issues and thereby enable the Commission to give effect to the general principles of food law.
Our intention is to adopt this proposal in the Commission on 8 November 2000.
This schedule continues to reflect the importance the Commission attaches to the matter and is broadly in line with the timescale set out in the White Paper which envisages that the establishing legislation will be enacted in 2001, leading to the establishment of the food authority in 2002.
I have followed Parliament's debate on the White Paper with great interest.
I am encouraged to note the high degree of agreement between Parliament's views as expressed in the draft report that you have debated, and the White Paper itself.
This will facilitate the Commission's task in bringing forward a balanced proposal that takes maximum account of the views of Parliament and the many stakeholders in the area of food safety.
I have previously acknowledged in Parliament and other forums what I regard as an important issue for the fullest acceptance of our ideas for a food authority: the role and involvement of Parliament itself in enacting the legislation establishing the food authority.
It is right and proper and I support Parliament's desire to see Articles 95 and 152 of the Treaty employed to this effect.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that Parliament has tackled the issue of anti-personnel landmines.
Certainly, much remains to be done, and this is why we must all welcome the Commission's proposal as a positive step.
Turning to our report, I welcome the Commission's proposal as positive, and I have to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Development and Cooperation have worked extremely hard in order to improve it - if this was possible - on certain points in particular.
I would just like to mention a few of these points which, with regard to Parliament's proposal, seem important and, in any case, represent a tangible step forward in this matter.
Firstly - and we hope that Parliament will support us in this - we stress the need to destroy the stockpiles of anti-personnel landmines still held by many countries, including signatory countries, because we feel that Parliament often talks about stockpile destruction as preventative action without really knowing what it is referring to.
The second point has to do with a whole series of elements - which I hope Parliament will approve - regarding budget lines.
Commissioner, in addition to further simplifying your proposal - thereby arriving at three budget lines: one general, one relating to research and one relating to humanitarian landmine clearance - we have further simplified the proposed comitology, and we hope that Parliament will approve this, considering that an advisory committee will suffice instead of a management committee, for the very reason that, in the interests of coherent interpretation, we feel that the Commission is responsible for implementing the budget and must account for it with total transparency.
Another important element is that Parliament is not asking for anything general but requests EUR 200 million over the period 2000-2006, plus the funds to be allocated to research, plus the humanitarian heading, for we are indeed - we hope - talking about action and not just a resolution.
Moreover, precisely because the sum is so large - EUR 200 million - a considerable increase on past provision - we would like the Commission to establish an internal unit for anti-personnel landmine action, precisely in order to increase the transparency and cohesion of this activity.
From this perspective, these seem to me to be the characteristic elements facilitating responsible management and transparency.
The final point concerns the amendments.
The European Union must be united in its action and ensure that the production of landmines is stopped, that all stockpiles are destroyed and that the ground is cleared of mines, and that assistance and means of social and economic inclusion is provided for their victims, who include many children, while safeguarding the development of the community affected.
In this sense, there must be a sharp focus on the issue and actions must be undertaken to further raise awareness in order to prevent the matter fading into obscurity.
A great many issues remain unresolved, especially since countries such as the United States have not yet signed the Convention and countries such as China and Russia hold enormous stockpiles.
Europe must find a way to ensure that these stockpiles are eliminated from history but linger in our memories as a reminder that we must stop killing people with our lethal products.
It would be desirable if the Commission could tell us what it intends to do in this area, particularly with regard to the countries applying to join the European Union.
But of course its authority in this field will be greater if the Council and the Member States explicitly state that the European Union will under no circumstances in its external relations use anti-personnel landmines or help in their use.
It is, however, essential to ensure the greatest coherence and coordination between the actions taken by the European Union and those taken by the Member States.
The Commission' s draft regulation seems too vague.
We are firmly in favour of setting up a single budget line for action against landmines, except for research and food aid, and I believe it would be beneficial at the same time to set up a central unit coordinating all actions in this field, as mentioned by Mrs Bonino.
Afterwards we must invest more in research, especially research into the detection of mines placed in the ground.
Lastly, it is crucial that we reinforce mine-clearance action by ensuring the effectiveness of the actions taken and by giving priority to the countries that respect the Convention, just as it is also essential that we guarantee victim rehabilitation measures.
I would also like the Commission to explain in greater detail what it intends to do in these fields, bearing in mind past experience and the important role that the European Union has taken on in this area.
The field of action is, of course, vast and requires funding and great political will.
For this reason it is extremely positive that the Commission and the European Union are tackling this subject as a whole and wish to ensure that a coordinated policy is adopted in this area.
I say this because we do indeed need coordination between the efforts of Europe and other international players, areas benefiting from development funds or actions directly administered by the Commission.
Not all countries have yet signed the international conventions, nor have they been ratified by all countries, for a wide variety of reasons.
I also believe that there must be a proper political framework in these regions so as to give such governments the political power to escape from this vicious circle, which means that, ostensibly, in trying to provide protection for themselves they ultimately harm their own population in the long term.
It was Parliament which first raised, in 1996, the issue of a horizontal budget line and of a proper legal base to provide a single platform for the wide range of actions that we undertake in this important field.
Parliament was instrumental in galvanising the Union into taking a proactive role at the Ottawa Conference in 1997, which led to the conclusion of the Convention to ban and eradicate landmines.
It is the challenge of implementing that Convention to the full which led the Commission to reflect on how to reinforce the contribution of the European Union to the battle against landmines.
I should also like to mention the key role played by civil society, by highly motivated non-governmental organisations and, in particular, by the international campaign to ban landmines.
Their efforts are essential for the successful implementation of the Convention and their pressure on governments around the world has contributed tremendously to the encouraging record of ratification and accession.
Over the last eight years we have contributed over EUR 200 million from the Community budget to the fight against landmines.
In 1999 alone the Union spent more than EUR 100 million of which EUR 30 million was for Community projects, far more than any other international player.
The European Union has a clear position, set out in the 1997 joint action on extending signature and ratification of the Ottawa Convention to as many countries as possible.
But I cannot hide this fact: the Union's powers of persuasion in seeking to achieve this goal are obviously somewhat limited by the remaining difficulties of some Member States in signing and ratifying the Convention.
The communication and the draft regulation provide for a degree of conditionality in this respect, but we should not be too dogmatic.
We have to acknowledge the specific situation in certain countries.
We should not penalise people who need our help, even if their governments are not yet sufficiently committed to the implementation of the Convention.
This is not Community acquis in the strict legal sense of that term, but we will obviously encourage them to do away with mines in their defence, to stop manufacturing mines or trading in them, and to sign and ratify the Mine Ban Treaty.
I should like to draw Parliament's attention to the Slovenia International Trust Fund which, in only two years of operation, has set up a regional mine-action programme with support from the European Union, the United States and a number of other countries, with projects throughout the Balkans.
So I would argue against Amendment No 18.
While I understand and respect the ambition behind the proposal to concentrate all funds for mine action under the horizontal budget line, with the exception of ECHO and research lines, I am not convinced that this gives us the necessary flexibility to maximise the effectiveness of European Union interventions.
It may be that over time the horizontal line will attract more attention and more appreciation, but we also need to maintain the link to broader national or regional programming through the geographic budget lines and regulations.
I myself would say no to proposed Amendments Nos 3, 16 and 21.
I would propose to say no to Amendment No 17.
Parliament knows that there are far too many of them already and as the House knows, under our proposals for the reform of EC external assistance, we hope to move away from the heavy handed scrutiny of individual projects and instead focus our discussion with Member States on overall strategies and programming.
Therefore the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 8, 22, 23, 25 and 29.
The adoption of this regulation constitutes a small, but in my judgment an important step along that road.
Mr President, some of us have been involved for many years in trying to overcome the scourge of anti-personnel landmines.
The anti-personnel landmine campaign should not be used as an opportunity to attack western governments, particularly the United States, western military establishments, or western industry.
For the most part, western governments are not the problem but part of the solution.
We should concentrate our political attention on the real culprits: warring factions and irresponsible governments who have shown no concern about civil populations and who use anti-personnel landmines as indiscriminate weapons of terror.
Secondly, the international community needs to improve the coordination of its efforts both at the global level and particularly within the afflicted countries.
Multiannual funding for mine action must be concentrated on a single budget line and there must be a properly resourced unit within the Commission, specifically responsible not just for the policy framework but also for the planning and implementation of mine action, including contracts.
I took two things away from that experience: you need the experts, in this case the old soldiers of the Norwegian People's Aid and the local population - a crucial component - and you then need to clear the mines strategically.
This got me onto the idea of not working with the national Angolan authority or via complex structures in the first instance, but of simply working with the authorities through strong NGOs among the local population in a well-organised manner, as is being attempted in Angola.
I believe that, as far as that is concerned, you and Parliament are on the same side.
Finally, I should like to thank Mrs Bonino.
Mr President, very rarely from within the established power structures does anything new emerge.
All the institutions of the EU must work on their own initiative and in a way that the poor countries that suffer worst from the mines problem are effectively included in the programme.
However, I should like to make the following comment: the number of mines placed increases in direct proportion to the international community's inability to find political solutions to major problems.
When, for example, a country feels insecure along its border with another country, its government will take recourse, wrongly of course, to the easy option of a minefield.
These death traps, set off by chance by the victims themselves, sometimes many years after a conflict is over, are real time bombs that hinder the social and economic recovery of whole regions and the rehabilitation of the victims themselves.
As a signatory to the appeal for a world without mines, I fervently support Emma Bonino's report, because it is heading in the right direction.
Moreover, the European Union as a whole and the candidate countries must sign the Ottawa Convention and, more importantly, ratify it.
One point that NGO representatives have criticised in conversation with me is the combination of military activity with NGO work found in points 11 and 15 of the resolution.
In the course of many years' work, the NGOs have won people's confidence and respect, and I fear that such a combination could compromise the independence of the NGOs and permanently damage their relationship of trust with people in need.
I therefore very much welcome the fact that this new regulation is to implement that convention with an EU strategy for improving the coordination, coherence, transparency and control of these actions on mines.
The European Union also has to live up to its claim to play a leading role in this area.
As we have already heard today, Parliament has been dealing with this subject for many years.
Mines are of course a great obstacle to reconstruction in these countries and to the return of refugees.
The European Union is often the most important contributor to financing de-mining actions, and international actions are carried out in the relevant countries.
The problem of anti-personnel mines is too big for the regions directly affected, and also for the refugees in the areas involved, so that without international cooperation it is not possible to provide effective support here.
The international community must adopt a coherent and coordinated approach.
For the coming year, the Council and the Commission have agreed to reduce the total to EUR 7,400,000 and Parliament proposes an increase of EUR 3 million compared with the year 2000.
These figures are not much to solve a problem that affects 110 million people in 64 countries, 26,000 victims of mutilations every year and, vitally, the many children who are described in countries such as El Salvador as the broken children, as these children are maimed, missing their hands, arms or legs.
I therefore ask that the importance of increasing this amount be conveyed to the Council, which is not represented here, and to the Commission, given that unfortunately, for each mine that is cleared, between 20 and 50 others are laid.
At the current de-mining rate it would - as was mentioned earlier - take well over 100 years to clear the planet of anti-personnel landmines.
My own country took all too long to do so, unfortunately.
I believe it is healthy to strengthen the civil obligations of any organisation which has military activities.
The first area is that of prevention.
When I think of the problems and the events in developing countries, such as those in the ACP area or in Central America, it is evident that things cannot continue like this.
In particular, research initiatives in this area need to be supported, especially those concerned with technology for detecting and clearing mines.
I witnessed the suffering of mine victims with my own eyes during and after the war in Bosnia, in 1992, 1995 and 1999.
With regard to the enlargement of the EU, the candidate countries absolutely must sign the Ottawa Convention.
Mr President, one day in December 1992, a young shepherd in Mozambique forgot the risk: he thought it had gone with the coming of peace.
But a mine is impervious to peace agreements and continues, inexorably, to do its job.
Even though 139 states have now signed the Ottawa Convention, mines are still doing their job of destruction.
Every 20 minutes somewhere in the world a mine will explode, bringing death or mutilation.
However, the progress made should not blind us to the reality, and that reality is a total of 27 people killed and another 41 mutilated every single day.
The reality is 250 million mines in the arsenals of 105 countries.
Even last year, mines were used in 20 conflicts, mainly in Europe.
So I welcome the work done by my fellow Members, Emma Bonino and Luisa Morgantini, who have once again brought the political debate into the heart of this Parliament.
Whatever the outcome, we will all of us together show that we are determined to fight against what has to be called 'a cowards' war' .
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, war is a cruel way of solving people' s differences.
Too many children have lost their lives or become crippled while playing in a danger zone.
In some countries there are more mines than there are truffles in France, and both are as hard to find.
The history we share with our neighbour has often been full of anguish.
There can be no development without safe roads, without suitable land for cultivation and without places where children can play freely.
That is why the European Union joined and has come to play a leading role in the international campaign started by the United Nations, as has already been mentioned by the previous speakers.
I must stress that for this to occur the effort of the European Union must be more cohesive, bringing in Finland and Greece; the European Union must coordinate all its power to exert international pressure on those countries that have not yet accepted the Ottawa Convention; and the European effort must become more effective, for example through an increase in funding, taking into account the need for safe mine clearance, the systematic destruction of existing stockpiles and the further development of advanced mine detection and clearance technologies.
This effort must also be made more effective through coordination and monitoring of the processes, giving NGOs a more extensive role to play.
Lastly, I hope that among the future tasks of the European common military force will be the training of technicians, particularly of people with a local interest in the eradication of landmines.
Mr President, the Finnish Government last debated the question of anti-personnel mines on 14 June 1999.
At the time it was decided to look into how Finland might be a party to the Ottawa Convention in 2006 and replace anti-personnel mines with other defence methods by the end of 2010.
The Finns are involved in international cooperation with regard to mine clearance.
Experts from Finland and Finnish clearance vehicles have taken part in clearance programmes in Cambodia for two and a half years, and in Mozambique and Kosovo for one year.
As party to the convention, Finland complies with the regulations in the amended Mine Protocol in the Convention on Conventional Weapons 1996, which came into force in December 1998.
Until a replacement military arrangement, which costs approximately half of Finland' s defence budget for one year, is in place, anti-personnel mines will remain a part of the defence arrangement.
Finland has never engaged in the export of anti-personnel mines and none have been manufactured in the country since 1981.
Finland is one of the unfortunately few countries in the world that sign and ratify international agreements only when they can meet the conditions they contain to the last letter.
We are talking about millions of people killed or maimed, between 70 and 100 million mines that could explode at any time, anywhere in 60 countries.
The reports give less emphasis to the fact that the majority of those mines were manufactured outside the countries in which they are buried.
Fortunately, emphasis is placed, however, on the fact that the mines constitute a fundamental obstacle to the development of these regions in addition to a lethal threat of death and distress. (Interruption by the President to request silence) Courage is needed in the face of the reality with which Mrs Bonino and Mrs Morgantini present us if we are not to fall victim to despair.
And here, as in other contexts, the actions of the European Union and Parliament itself give reason for confidence, for reconciliation with our own kind, as with this step forward, this Commission regulation that we are trying to improve in this parliamentary procedure, reaffirming our commitment and our hope.
This perspective will guide our amendments and our votes.
To close the debate, I have received one proposal for a resolution, pursuant to Article 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
I therefore propose, Mr President, that we refer this report back to committee, for cleaning up, so that this historic vote is not polluted by formal inconsistencies.
But as a result of this little textual substitution we have let fall by the wayside an important principle that the European Parliament has always called for.
The fact is that, whatever our opinion on either side, whether we are for or against a constitution, we all agree that our Parliament should give its assent.
Thanks to this substitution, the term found in the original paragraph has been left out.
You have just said to Amendment No 8 (or so I understood from the interpretation).
The responsibility for these actions lies above all in the insanity of the Heads of State and Government of many of the world's states, and in the insanity of too many citizens who believe they can resolve their problems through war.
The idea that technology, know-how and money is spent on creating weapons that destroy people and the environment is unacceptable.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of the report on action to be taken against anti-personnel mines.
The Commission' s communication sets out what actions the Community has already participated in to combat the use of anti-personnel mines.
The Commission therefore proposes that initiatives be taken to set up a horizontal budget line.
Parliament supports this solution because the present structure, with many different budget lines, is not transparent and does not contribute to coherent intervention.
It is still uncertain what legal base the Commission wants to propose for this initiative.
Finland has produced and stored anti-personnel mines exclusively for its own defence needs.
We in this Parliament discuss tyre pressures and the length of vehicles, but we have not yet succeeded in grasping how important it is for there to be a common regulation throughout the 15 Member States establishing a decent minimum pension.
The Van Lancker report outlines a few general principles, such as the right to a pension or a minimum salary and the right to strike, something the EU Council' s text, the only one with the value of a decision, does not even mention.
For the rest, the rapporteur calls on Parliament to approve the supposed social policy the Commission has proposed to the Council, in other words, to approve a total vacuum, for there is not a single practical measure likely to improve the situation of the workers.
This agenda, which goes back to an initiative by the French Presidency, is a genuine programme of work for the next five years.
It is in keeping with the decisions of the Lisbon European Council, whose main conclusions relate to establishing a more competitive knowledge-based economy and achieving full employment.
The Van Lancker report takes account of some of the proposals made by civil society and experts at the joint conference on the subject between the European Commission and the European Parliament on 21 and 22 September 2000.
It highlights the existence and reality of the European social model, but also the need to bring it up to date.
We do not have the right to disappoint our citizens.
The social agenda must therefore be very ambitious in order to confirm that social, economic and employment policies are closely interlinked and interacting, and that they must have equal status in the Community policy triangle, with the aim of improving the social quality of life for all.
This is a very fair and balanced social programme and is one of the very central planks of the Irish Government' s National Development Plan for the seven-year period post-1999.
It offers a global and coherent vision of what a genuine social policy could look like, by linking economic, social and employment aspects.
It uses all the instruments that now exist at European Union level - the Social Charter, the employment chapter, the legal base of Article 13 - to combat all forms of discrimination, etc.
He calls for the role of the social partners concerned, and dialogue with them, to be reinforced in the framing of legislation.
However, in the event of dispute, our committee urges the executive Commission to make use of its right of initiative and to propose adequate legislation.
It is important to achieve a more social Europe, therefore to have more European social legislation.
Furthermore, the rapporteur asks us to support the Member States in their endeavours to establish a minimum wage and the right to a minimum pension so that every individual can live in dignity.
According to Mrs Van Lancker, working hours in Europe must be shortened significantly, the body of EU socio-political legislation must be increased substantially, the levels of social protection in Europe must be raised massively, the power of the Trade Union movement increased and supranational labour market negotiations made possible, labour organisations must be given greater rights to be heard, and socio-political influence must be a priority in all sectors of the economy, in competition policy and in public procurements.
We have voted against Mrs Van Lancker' s report on the social policy agenda.
The Commission' s new political agenda proposes a framework in which all important actors can play a role and in which the differences between the national systems are respected.
The Commission will use its right of initiative and support the Member States in bringing necessary changes about.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions must be made as close as possible to those they affect.
All other issues must be dealt with at local, regional or national levels.
With the third social action programme, the Commission is underscoring the recognition that economic policy, employment policy and social policy need to be more closely interlinked.
Many of the demands made in the Van Lancker report are not acceptable.
For example, the Luxembourg process which applies to employment policy is to be extended to social protection and social exclusion.
This method of determining Community objectives and implementing national action programmes which are assessed annually - including by the European Parliament - is so successful precisely because new qualitative and quantitative objectives are formulated whilst simultaneously strictly adhering to the principle of subsidiarity.
The rapporteur has departed from the principle of subsidiarity out of a sheer desire to adopt centralist solutions.
The EPLP feels that this is already dealt with by Member State legislation and is also covered in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The EPLP could not support the call for a legislative arrangement for worker participation in the framework of the European Company Statute as the industrial relations dimension is dealt with in other legislation.
Finally, the EPLP feels that the new directives in the field of combating discrimination under Article 13 have not yet had a chance to be implemented or bed down.
Therefore the EPLP has voted against the proposals for new vertical directives, as further legislation would be premature.
Biarritz informal European Council Mr President, during yesterday' s debate the Council pointed out that in Biarritz the governments' positions had begun to converge on the principle of extending qualified majority voting.
But we regard this transfer as very dangerous, for it would deprive the national parliaments of any right of inspection in regard to future WTO negotiations on these areas that are vital to the life of our societies.
If that proposal were accepted, we may be sure that in the coming six months the Commission would impose another version of the Multilateral Agreement on Investment on us, the infamous MAI which it was possible to reject, two years ago, only because it came under strictly intergovernmental procedures.
The second category of decisions that would cause us concern if they were to be decided by qualified majority voting relates to immigration and the international movement of persons, which, under Article 67 of the EC Treaty, require unanimity for at least five years after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam but can then be decided by a majority.
The major powers, such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom and, to some extent, Italy, are all agreed in their desire to dominate the small countries of Eastern or Southern Europe that are applying for accession to the European Union.
At the same time, each country is seeking to ensure its own supremacy and to guarantee the interests of its own industrial or financial groups.
As for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the only reason the meeting of Heads of State and Government signed it was in order to be seen to make a statement.
Mr President, I abstained from voting on the resolution on the results of the informal Biarritz European Council for two reasons: firstly, because I had the opportunity to vote in person on Paragraphs 2 and 5 separately, which allowed me to express my total opposition to both.
As Paragraph 7 says, it is absolutely necessary to ensure that solutions are valid and acceptable to all Member States, regardless of their size or economic weight.
However, for legal reasons we think that it is wrong to refer to it at this early stage in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, because it was not possible to reach formal agreement on it within the convention, reflecting its structure, and it therefore has no legal status.
It is for these reasons alone that we have not voted for both parts of point 2 of the resolution.
I voted for this resolution because in it Parliament wisely does not opt for the 'imperialist' theses of the large, populous European countries against the self-affirmation of the others.
The resolution limits itself to a responsible vote so that a sensible balance can be found based on the history of the Community.
Europe was created by Treaties concluded, obviously, between equal states.
Moreover, over and above the legal aspect, Europe is a great family of civilisations in emotional terms.
Now, the idea of closer cooperation means that in crucial areas, such as money, defence and taxation, some members of the European family would have more rights and obligations than others.
Some would have a say about money while others, like Denmark or Sweden, would have to hold their tongue.
As we saw before the existence of total, universal suffrage, there would be active "peoples" and observer "peoples" .
There would, in a sense, be "males" with the right to talk war, taxes and money and, as in pre-1945 France, "females" sitting round the table with no right to decide.
Moreover, in this 'variable-geometry' Europe, the number of guests with the right to eat  la carte would vary depending on the subject under discussion in the European Council of Ministers and this state of affairs would create further complexity in a Europe whose way of operating is already quite obscure.
Moreover, even the Heads of State and Government have not been able to reach agreement on this issue, and it is to be carried over to the forthcoming Nice Summit.
And yet there are so many urgent issues to be dealt with: 1) the need to define an economic policy which will rescue the euro from the stagnant depths to which it has plunged and boost employment; 2) the need to attract investment to the Union in order to break out of the economic slump; 3) the need to revise employment regulations to make the market more dynamic and more responsive; or 4) the need to define a common line for a coherent diplomatic action to safeguard peace in the Middle East, etc.
All of these issues are extremely important and urgent in terms of the Union's future and the function which it ought to be performing in the world.
However, as is often the case with these summits, the celebratory final declarations conceal a reality which is much more banal: the Fifteen have not succeeded in establishing a common policy and the progress made with the unveiling of rights does not take away from the need to tackle the practical problems encountered by millions of families and entire categories of producers and workers.
A summit which tackles these issues would show the validity of such an institution once and for all, and would send a signal of confidence and hope to the citizens of the Union.
Duhamel report (A5-0289/2000) Mr President, we voted against the Duhamel report on the European Constitution because, following the well-established Monnet recipe, seeking to make a fundamental political about-turn under cover of technical considerations, without ever clearly telling people that the main intention is to put an end to a concept of Europe under which each nation primarily obeys its national constitution.
In the explanatory statement, the rapporteur says a little more about this and maintains that the Treaty is already broadly supranational, largely as a result of the Court of Justice' s case-law interpretations.
In our view, however, the interpretations of 15 judges, which go beyond the Treaties as ratified, are clearly improper and we are still waiting for them to be submitted for the approval of the peoples of the Member States.
Elsewhere, the rapporteur repeats the new theory in vogue in Brussels of the supposed dual legitimacy of the European Union: that of the citizens represented by the European Parliament and that of the States represented by the Council.
That is not the theory as set out in the Treaty, which recognises only one form of legitimacy, namely, and I quote, that of: "the peoples of the States brought together in the Community" , according to the wording of Articles 189 and 190 of the EC Treaty.
This wording means that the Community brings together only the States, each of which depends on the support of its people.
In no case do the MEPs represent the European citizens in general.
They represent their respective peoples and, by that token, cooperate in the European scrutiny of the States, but that scrutiny remains complementary, because the main power of scrutiny falls within the remit of the national parliaments.
In other words, the fact that MEPs represent their respective peoples in no way modifies the nature of the Community.
It in no way has the effect of placing some phantom European citizen above the national citizens, even less of placing an artificial European democracy above the national democracies or even on the same footing with them.
Mr President, I voted against the Duhamel report because I do not believe that we are taking the right approach.
This project has been sold on the idea of a constitution for the people, which is all well and good, but if you have a single constituency you are diluting the power of the individuals in the Member States.
There has been talk about referenda and the amendments that were made to this report in relation to referenda.
Referenda are very important, but in the case of a single constituency, where you ignore almost 50% in a Member State who may vote against it, this is not democratic.
It is interesting to see people putting forward the idea of a referendum in this way because if you consider the changes that have taken place in the treaties over the years, the Single European Act, the Maastricht Treaty and the Treaty of Amsterdam, very few citizens in the individual Member States have had a say and, as a result, we are not sure what the citizens in the Member States want.
But I am deeply disturbed, Mr President, that it is possible here in this Chamber for a Member of the left - I have forgotten now who it was - to call elected Members of this House "polluters" of this Chamber, without you calling that Member to order.
We believe that the basis for cooperation in the EU should continue to be unanimity on the basic questions concerning the legal base on which the EU is founded.
Only 40 per cent of people voted in the 1999 elections to the European Parliament, if countries with voting duties are discounted, as well as those which had national elections at the same time as elections to the European Parliament.
Now, in September 2000, the Danes have voted against membership of EMU, and people in a number of other Member States would certainly have voted against the EMU project, given the opportunity.
The Portuguese socialist MEPs voted for the Duhamel report on the constitutionalisation of the Treaties essentially because they agree with the need for the European Union to simplify and organise the fundamental texts that govern it, which today have become virtually unreadable on account of the complexity introduced by the successive accumulation of Treaties.
To this end, it is essential that the European Union should move towards a Constitution that incorporates the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The experience of a full democracy in the European Union has everything to gain from the approval of a Constitution that is clear, simple, readable and a source of reference for all citizens.
That is why the Portuguese socialist MEPs voted against the proposal of their own political group, which indicated a uniform referendum model for all the Member States of the European Union.
A constitution would be meaningful only if it formed the democratic framework for a genuine European federation, a United States of Europe.
By resorting again to the means and objectives used for the Charter of Fundamental Rights in order now to draft a constitution, the Union is persisting in constructing a Europe that is made neither by the people nor for them, be they citizens of the Member States or the candidate countries.
A genuine social constitution ought to bring together, from the top down, the best acquired rights for work, women, immigrants and citizens.
Nor is it built by the people, despite a few hypocritical allusions to possible future referenda, because, once again, a few institutional delegations are to decide the fate of 385 million individuals.
This own-initiative report by Mr Duhamel can be classed as one that were better not written, especially at this point in time.
For as things stand in the various Member States, it risks being rather counterproductive at a time when the top priority is not a very broad debate on a constitution but rather the drafting of a treaty that will allow the European Union to digest enlargement without endangering the Community method, which is the key to the success of European integration.
The resolution is essentially like a 'Pandora' s Box' , as the text does not make it formally clear what purpose it serves or where the real need or urgency for a European Constitution lies.
By its very nature a Constitution may, in the form in which it is sometimes contradictorily put forward for Europe, both serve as a way to 'civilise' the Union, on the basis of democracy and citizenship, and also be the instrument for a 'clarification' of competences, a chalk circle which formally and definitively constrains the Union and its bodies to very particular and specific competences.
The constitutionalisation of the Treaties may either bring about the development of the Union and uphold its political competences, or in contrast it may be no more than an enshrined formalisation of the principle of subsidiarity.
Despite the clarity of Mrio Soares' s speech, in which he interpreted this report in its deep European sense, without concessions to easy solutions through highly risky referendums, for which there is no tradition in many Member States, it remains simply an unsullied interpretation by a European of conviction who has made his mark on history.
While it could be argued that the existing Treaties are in essence the European Constitution they are difficult to read and their articles are not always in a logical order.
We think a re-organising of the Treaties and their simplification would make it easier for citizens to see clearly the field of EU responsibilities - and their limits - as well as the procedures for exercising these responsibilities.
We have a constitution already in the form of the Treaties, in so far as they lay down the competences of the Union, its procedures and the composition and powers of its institutions.
That is true in terms of the understanding shown both of the national parliaments and their constitutional committees and of the European Parliament' s Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
But this particular voice, and this is significant, is a parliamentary voice, the voice of an institution that attests a little more each day to the authority of the peoples within the Union and its triangle of institutions.
Everyone here knows that Europe, its currency, its diplomacy, its security, its civilisation, its culture and its social model can only truly survive the splendid history of its peoples, but also the fruitless dissension between them, by becoming a federation of nation states with strong, coherent and respected institutions, enshrined in a European Constitution, towards which Mr Duhamel has paved the way.
Until the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997, Europe was an intergovernmental super-syndicate.
If, tomorrow, the Union wishes to embrace Europe in its entirety, the geographical Europe, extending even beyond the next wave of enlargement, it will need institutions that are fully mature in political and democratic terms.
Gil-Robles report (A5-0288/2000) Mr President, ever since I have been a Member of the European Parliament, I have had sleepless nights worrying about whether I will succeed in contributing to a European law on pensions before my term expires.
We agree with the general principles laid down by the report, to the effect that closer cooperation should be developed within the European Union' s institutional frameworks and that the political and legal conditions established by the Treaty of Amsterdam for introducing closer cooperation are aimed at limiting the risk of a breach of the ties of solidarity between the Member States and the risk of a disintegration in the common legal area.
We recognise that, where the pace and scope of European integration are concerned, a certain degree of differentiation within the process may be useful in so far as the common objectives are preserved and the differentiation is perceived as a tool used on an exceptional basis, in a transitional period and with due respect for the fact that it is entirely up to those countries which are not a part of the enhanced cooperation process to decide whether - and, in certain cases, when - they wish to accede to those areas covered by closer cooperation.
If we cannot vote in favour of the report, it is because we cannot support the proposed changes to the political and legal conditions required for closer cooperation.
Removing the conditions which state that closer cooperation must remain within the framework of the Treaty and removing the right of veto and the opportunity for bringing the issue up in the European Council would constitute a breach of the quite fundamental principles according to which European cooperation in the EU operates.
The Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities is voting against Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado' s report on enhanced cooperation.
The report proposes abolishing the right of veto, which would in reality mean that countries which are very keen on further integration could forge ahead without having broad democratic support.
The ulterior motive is to be able to continue the development towards 'ever closer union' without being hampered by the enlargement to which the EU countries have committed themselves.
In this way, Mr Gil-Robles proposes discontinuing the common foreign and security policy.
We consider, however, that future development will increase the need for far more varied and flexible cooperation in Europe.
Countries with a tradition of holding referendums before surrendering sovereignty may in future be in danger of finding themselves in a situation in which a proposal that is rejected nationally is adopted at EU level.
Those countries which are not so keen on integration are left with a poor alternative, namely that of copying the legislation without having any real say in it.
In fact, although this report tends to introduce a little more flexibility into the highly inflexible system laid down by Title VII of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which is welcome, the final result is still far from adequate.
The Gil-Robles report even proposes bringing the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy within the purview of reinforced cooperation, thus centralising those policies even more than they are at present (Paragraph 4).
Parliament wished earlier to prevent the emergence of differentiated forms of cooperation in the Treaty of Amsterdam, but was finally forced to give way and accept 'reinforced cooperation' .
Indeed, some Member States that wanted to deepen their cooperation and go beyond the integration provided for in the Treaties developed various instruments, such as the Social Chapter, the Schengen Agreements, Economic and Monetary Union, etc.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the use of these instruments was formalised by the introduction of the concept of 'closer cooperation' into the Treaty on European Union (Title VII) and the Treaty establishing the European Community (Article 11).
The objective of this form of cooperation is to allow a limited number of Member States that are able and willing to move forward to deepen European integration, provided they respect the European Union' s single institutional framework.
So we must avoid slowing down the general pace and therefore allow some Member States to move forward by developing the mechanism of reinforced cooperation.
We must point out that reinforced cooperation, as provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam, must in particular concern an area that does not come within the Community' s exclusive purview, must be aimed at furthering the objectives of the Union, must respect the principles of the Treaties and must be used only as a last resort while concerning a majority of Member States.
Reinforced cooperation could have an important role to play in the framework of an enlarged Europe.
However, as these provisions now stand, this mechanism cannot function correctly.
That is why the reform of this instrument has been entered on the agenda of the IGC with a view to making it easier to use.
The report before us tends to consolidate Parliament' s position in this respect (resolution of 13 April 2000).
In particular, that means abolishing the right of veto and making it possible to resort to cooperation when it concerns at least one third of Member States and also extending reinforced cooperation to the common foreign and security policy.
The rapporteur rightly stresses that the Commission' s power of initiative, the full participation of the European Parliament and legal control by the Court of Justice must be the rule for all forms of reinforced cooperation.
In its simplest terms, what this means is that larger Member States can integrate more closely and over a shorter time-frame than smaller Member States of the EU.
I do not think it will be a necessarily healthy move forward for the European Union if EU leaders were to accept and implement the principle of enhanced cooperation to its fullest.
I believe that this would fly in the face of both the founding objectives and spirit of the Treaty of Rome and of all subsequent Treaties thereafter.
One should recall that the Single European Act in 1987 laid the groundwork for the implementation of an internal market.
Large scale EU Structural Funds were put aside to help Objective 1 countries within the European Union so as to guarantee that these countries could become more competitive over time.
EU leaders stated that they did not want an internal market of only a few countries.
The operating structures of the internal market have been a success ever since the early 1990s.
This principle of equality between poorer and richer nations was transcended into policies that were implemented to put in place a new European single currency regime.
There is a need for institutional equality in the context of the negotiations on the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
The influence of smaller Member States cannot be dissipated by a set of larger countries within the EU that seek to implement, as I have said, the principle of enhanced cooperation.
If, in a future EU with 25 to 30 Member States, the situation is to be avoided of a Europe  la carte in which the unity of the Member States is in danger of disintegrating, we nonetheless believe that at least half of all Member States must participate in flexible integration.
We are also opposed to creating duplicate defence structures within the EU and consequently to flexible integration within the EU' s foreign and security policy.
The EU must acquire a credible foreign policy.
Still less do we wish to see a limited number of Member States go further within the framework of flexible integration in this area.
It is therefore important to retain the transatlantic link, even if there might, of course, be better coordination and a better distribution of labour.
It must preserve the single institutional framework within which all MEPs and all Commissioners participate fully in the exercise of the functions of each institution.
What could be more natural, therefore, than cooperation between neighbouring states, such as the cooperation which existed before the founding of the European Union in the form of the Benelux counties and the cooperation between the Nordic states?
Not one single EU rule should stand in the way of far-reaching cooperation, subject this to conditions or require that others join in.
They are not leader groups but reflect a diversity which, with 30 Member States, will only increase.
Clearly the triggering of reinforced cooperation must be made easier in an enlarged Union.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is disappointed, however, disappointed that the report did not seize the opportunity to bring about environmentally, socially and culturally sustainable development in these regions and that the amendments adopted during the vote are not such as to improve the text in that respect.
We regret that the positions Parliament has adopted in the vote are the European Union' s positions concerning these regions.
The Pensioners' Party and the pensioners who support it are very familiar with these islands for they are a key tourist destination.
This was the case in the Gutirrez Daz report, the Fernndez Martn report, which promoted the inclusion of the concept in the Treaty, and now in the Sudre report, which restates European policy for the outermost regions.
The European Parliament is reasserting itself by adopting measures in various fields - from agriculture to fisheries, from the environment to transport and energy via the information society - with the necessary budgetary support.
The Europe of Brussels, with its mania for levelling out and standardising, has acted unfairly and even stupidly towards our compatriots who live according to European values thousands of kilometres away from Paris, Madrid or Lisbon.
The technocrats, the European judges, wanted to abolish the 'dock dues' , which provide resources for our municipalities in the French overseas departments and, in particular, protect our traditional workforce.
From this distance, Brussels has put our Martinique rums, our rice and our tropical fruits at risk.
The European Commission has kow-towed to the banana multinationals.
The EU Member States deal with their outermost regions in very different ways.
Spain and Portugal consider their islands in the Atlantic as remote regions.
On the one hand, we want to support disadvantaged areas in and outside of Europe so that they achieve the same standard of living and level of amenities that is now current in the EU.
A case can be made for the Spanish and Portuguese islands, but not really for the more remote regions.
In any case, we have, however, subordinated our repugnance for this topic' s colonial backdrop to the interests of those living in the regions concerned.
The more progress that is made in scientific research, the more new questions are raised.
With all the measures proposed in the White Paper, we will still have to flesh out a number of points in order to guarantee food safety and in particular restore consumer confidence.
Henceforth we must ban all animal meal.
That is why the Green Group fully supported his work and voted for the report.
Mr John Bowis' report will ensure that the food we eat is always healthy, natural and safe.
Let me say how glad I am that our Parliament is finally delivering its opinion on such an important subject, while regretting that it has been 10 months since the European Commission presented its White Paper on 12 January this year.
It was essential for us to give an opinion on an issue that is so important to our fellow citizens.
Our vote has thus clarified the composition of the future European Agency, while also setting out our specific requirements regarding its funding and its independence.
This first step must not close our eyes to the serious work that still needs to be done on risk management, developing and improving the Rapid Alert System, but also on ensuring traceability and public information.
Now that is absolutely intolerable.
The French must remember that despite the Commission's splendid declarations about its resolve "to assure the highest standards of food safety" in the Union, it is actually the Commission, and none other, that is giving precedence to the demands of the free movement of products over public health requirements; it is the Commission, and none other, that has, for example, just dragged France before the Court of Justice for maintaining its ban on British beef.
It is unacceptable that we should abandon any part of our national right of decision and right of protection, in relation to food safety questions.
However, the creation of that agency is imperceptibly guiding us in that very direction.
First of all, we must remember that the power to provide advice plays a capital part.
In the mad cow affair, the reason the French Government continued the ban was because it was backed up by the independent opinion of the French Food Safety Agency (AFSSA), even though the supposedly scientific European committee saw nothing wrong with allowing British meat to be imported into France.
That is not at all the direction taken by the White Paper, which wants to make the European agency into a "scientific point of reference for the whole Union" (page 5).
Secondly, the European agency must be completely independent.
The director of the agency should certainly not be appointed by the Commission, contrary to what the European Parliament is proposing (paragraph 21 of the resolution).
Moreover, the agency must be able to criticise the Commission itself.
The Commission's White Paper has the grace to admit that, but on closer perusal we find that the regulatory power it is so keen to protect is that of...
That does not prevent the Commission and Parliament from christening the agency a "European Authority", a title totally contrary to the philosophy that supposedly inspires it.
The European Parliament even adds, in paragraph 6 of its resolution, the phrase "while subjecting the powers to be transferred to detailed scrutiny", just when we thought that no powers were to be transferred.
We therefore believe that the White Paper and Parliament's report are traps, which is why we are opposed to them.
There is without doubt a need for an agency that takes a European view of the situation, but it must be strictly consultative and totally independent.
A serious problem for society and food safety has been caused by the serious crises and scandals involving food products that have arisen in several countries in the European Union because of the use of methods aimed at making the maximum profit from food-producing activities at any cost, ignoring the interests of consumers.
Therefore all the measures proposed to change the situation and protect consumers deserve our support, particularly the setting-up of a European food Safety Agency to analyse the risks scientifically, working in close collaboration with existing national agencies in this field and the main European consumers' organisations.
The issue has now become particularly acute, not just because of the advances in our methods of scientific investigation but mainly because the consequences of a certain type of farming aimed at boosting productivity at all costs and inspired by a free-trade philosophy have come fully to light.
The question is what kind of mechanism will protect our citizens most effectively.
If we take a look at recent events, we find that with regard to BSE, for example, and taking only the case of France, it is the existence of a competent and independent national Food Safety Agency that allowed the French authorities to rapidly take the decisions needed to protect the health of its people.
In the name of respect for subsidiarity and effectiveness, we must give pride of place to measures taken in a national context, where independent agencies can rapidly provide genuinely scientific opinions undiluted by other considerations and the political authorities can take the necessary risk-management decisions for the benefit of the people who have given them a mandate to protect their safety.
Under these circumstances, a European agency can play a useful role if it really is independent, especially in relation to the Commission services and the various pressure groups at work there, and if its role is to complement and support the national agencies (from which it should emanate), in particular by acting as a forum for the exchange of expertise.
That is not at all what the Bowis report is proposing; it gives the impression that basically it regards food safety as another pretext for fuelling the well-known process of strengthening the Commission's powers at the expense of the national authorities and public safety.
The report seems to regard it as a matter of course that the Commission should appoint the director of the authority: no doubt that is the best way of guaranteeing its independence!
As for paragraph 6 of the report, it quite classically announces the transfers of powers that are bound to follow.
We voted against Amendment No 7 because it would mean, even now, going beyond the field of risk assessment and encompassing risk management.
I believe there are a number of reasons why Hong Kong voters have opted for apathy instead of exercising their newly established right to vote.
Twenty-four of the 60 seats are directly elected on the basis of universal suffrage, where three million Hong Kong citizens have the right to vote.
The remaining 36 seats are returned by a mere 179 000 electors drawn from Hong Kong's powerful business and professional interests as well as pro-Beijing groups.
The real power rests with the Chief Executive, Tung Chee-hwa and his government which, in effect, is appointed by Beijing.
The legislature's lack of real power has made voters unenthusiastic about participating in elections which, in their view, are not truly democratic.
Although the Basic Law - which is Hong Kong's mini-constitution - lays down specific criteria for the holding of the 2004 election, it does nonetheless provide for the possible introduction of universal suffrage for the election of all 60 seats for the 2008 election.
The executive has no party base in the legislature, which means that these two institutions are effectively completely separate from one another.
The rule of law is the cornerstone of the "one country, two systems" policy.
Three recent, controversial legal cases have far-reaching implications for the integrity of the rule of law and ultimately for the autonomy of Hong Kong itself.
Two of these resulted in the execution of individuals for crimes they had committed in Hong Kong, where capital punishment is banned.
The third case related to a judgment handed down by Hong Kong's Court of Final Appeal on a controversial immigration law concerning residency rights in Hong Kong for children of Chinese parents who themselves had resident status in Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong Government was displeased with the liberal judgment and invited the Chinese authorities to reinterpret the Basic Law.
As regards my comments on the dominance of the Li Ka-shing family - which was the subject of much media interest in Hong Kong today - in some sectors of Hong Kong's economy, I should like to point out that the reason I have raised this matter is that it has been raised with me by leading figures in Hong Kong and indeed was the subject of major media debate during a recent visit there by myself.
I am very unhappy that this has been blocked by some governments.
Visa-free access should be given to Hong Kong's passport-holders without any preconditions.
Since then, and despite the Asian financial crisis, trade relations between the European Union and Hong Kong have gone from strength to strength.
As far as relations between Hong Kong and its international trading partners are concerned, more specifically the World Trade Organisation, the EU and Hong Kong share a number of common goals and the two work very closely together, which is useful in the light of the forthcoming trade round.
In my recommendation, I referred to the important role which Hong Kong could play when China joined the World Trade Organisation.
Hong Kong could show China how an open, fully integrated market can play a leading role in the region and can in this way achieve economic development and sustained growth.
For these reasons, we must stress the importance of closer cooperation between the European Union and Hong Kong in financial terms and in terms of trade and direct foreign investments.
We should bear in mind that in the framework of the EU-China agreement with regard to the possible accession of China to the World Trade Organisation, these bilateral agreements will need to be reviewed.
As far as the inquiry is concerned, we must call for both Hong Kong and the European Union to play a valuable role in the many projects which are in the pipeline.
We must, I think, all agree that if, with measures such as those quoted in the Cushnahan report, we touch on the principle of the rule of law which should inform the legal and constitutional framework of Hong Kong, then we question the wider principle of "one country, two systems" on which developments in Hong Kong have been based.
Because it is through freedom of the press that observations and proposals are made which aim to keep things within the democratic framework on which we are all agreed.
I should like to thank him for once again being so adaptable in writing that report and being prepared to involve his colleagues so that there is no need for us to go through a lengthy amendment procedure because we reached consensus when the report was being drawn up.
The recent sacking or movement of one of the directors of Radio Television Hong Kong appears to have been as a result of pressure from the mainland.
We have already heard of the unfair nature of the election system.
I would hope that we can continue with these annual reports and these Parliament reports so that we can monitor very closely the situation in Hong Kong.
Mr Cushnahan rightly points to the question of the three legal cases which have caused concern.
He rightly points to the lack of progress on the introduction of universal suffrage for the elections of the Chief Executive, to discrimination against companies with trading links with Taiwan and to the decline in confidence of the political system.
These are all indeed serious challenges and if we must be grateful that things have gone as well as they have, we must nonetheless be concerned that greater progress has not been made.
I believe that the record of the European Union falls far behind that of the United States of America in this area.
I am aware that our Member States have concerns about standing up against the Chinese on issues of human rights because they fear trade sanctions in retaliation.
But if there is one area where western Europe could stand four-square behind the European banner, it is surely in this area.
The ASEM summit last week managed to agree a statement which included as a goal of Asia-Europe cooperation the promotion of human rights.
We are the first to express our anxiety with regard to the Hong Kong government' s decision to apply for an interpretation of the 1990 Basic Law from the Standing Committee of the National People' s Congress.
The veto right which China could obtain as a result of this with regard to court rulings in Hong Kong puts a question mark over the legal autonomy of the Special Administrative Region.
The elections for the Legislative Council a month ago were once again proof of the democratic deficit.
The fact that an electoral college of 800 members subsequently decided on the occupation of six seats and the fact that only 175 000 businesspeople were entitled to elect the other half of parliament turned the elections into a complete farce.
Finally, we would call for permanent vigilance with regard to the freedom of press, the need for laws with regard to fair competition and the possibility of an open trade relationship with Hong Kong and Taiwan.
The honourable gentleman, Mr Watson, referred to the fact that we should not feel inhibited in what we say about Hong Kong or about other issues by our trading relationship with China.
I can report first hand to the House that while, as several honourable gentlemen have pointed out, some problems exist, Hong Kong nevertheless remains a free society, undoubtedly one of the freest societies in Asia as both the Commission and Parliament's annual reports make clear.
The secret of Hong Kong's great success has always been its fusion of Hong Kong-Chinese entrepreneurial culture with the attributes of a free and open society founded on the rule of law.
It does not surprise me entirely, they are many of them former refugees or the sons and daughters of refugees and they are used to handling and overcoming adversity.
Both reports address these directly.
There have been other issues too, including the recent controversy involving academic freedom and the even more recent one involving the Public Order Ordinance, where the provisional legislature replaced the more liberal arrangement that my administration bequeathed with something rather less liberal.
It was an issue that came up several times in my visit last week.
I hope too that we will be able to reinforce a flourishing economic relationship with Hong Kong, with strengthened cooperation in other areas, such as education and the environment.
We will aim to promote the use of the European Communities' existing instruments in Hong Kong, such as participation in the Fifth Framework Programme on research, as the honourable gentleman's report recommends.
There are a number of further recommendations in the report which my officials will be studying closely.
My administration took much more vigorous measures to deal with it.
The present administration is taking particularly vigorous measures to deal with it, under the new director of the customs service whom I happen to know rather well because he was my private secretary for a number of years.
Everybody has been impressed by the leadership that he has shown in tackling what is undoubtedly a serious problem for industry.
In closing, we strongly endorse the view in the Parliament that this monitoring - your monitoring and our monitoring - is valuable and that it should continue.
We do not seek to interfere in Hong Kong's affairs, but the international community and the European Union in particular have a considerable stake in Hong Kong and its continuing rights and freedoms are embodied in a treaty lodged at the United Nations.
We will continue to maintain our interest in Hong Kong.
It is a community which inspired admiration the world over for its achievements and which, much to the satisfaction of its last governor, continues to do so.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
In my report, I made a modest attempt to formulate a number of proposals in order to help end the spiral of violence and underdevelopment in which many of our ACP partners have ended up.
These proposals also aim to avoid European funds being used to finance the war machine.
I would even argue in favour of fixing a ceiling for military expenditure in the ACP countries above which assistance or debt relief is no longer provided.
I believe it would be particularly useful, in the framework of Article 96 of the Cotonou Convention, to compile a list of all possible infringements of this Convention.
Situations such as those in Ethiopia, where the European Commission and a number of Member States froze aid, while other Member States started up new programmes, must be avoided at all costs.
ACP states involved in armed conflict should allow the World Bank and the IMF full access to their accounts.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I would like to add a few considerations to the valid points already made by rapporteur Van Hecke.
Although in September 1998, it was agreed not to provide any budgetary aid to countries at war, in March 2000 the Commission provided Rwanda with EUR 110 million, while this country is occupying considerable parts of the Democratic Republic of Congo, in defiance of the peace agreements.
I have the impression that that is clearly the case because, in practice, countries which are even involved in one and the same armed conflict are being treated differently.
This sometimes directly affects the power relations between countries involved in one and the same conflict.
Not only is the illegal arms trade flourishing, but the controlled arms trade is also more interested in "fair competition" among arms traders than in the peace we are promoting.
Mr President, Commissioner, the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly has set itself the objective of eradicating poverty in these regions of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, which must be rescued from their wretchedly poor situation.
In his very comprehensive report, our rapporteur Johan Van Hecke rightly condemns the prevailing anarchy, the result of armed conflicts that cause endless bloodshed in some of these regions, as one of the causes of this poverty.
He has rightly included the establishment of a peace force in his list of remedies to this situation, without this interfering in the internal affairs of all these countries, which are jealous of their independence.
Given my experience in this field, allow me to go into this point a little further.
If we want to make a really useful contribution to keeping or restoring peace, we need a deeper knowledge of the history, culture and even language of the country in which we are to intervene.
In that respect, our rapporteur also deserves credit for proposing a very exhaustive list of the approaches and measures that can and must be adopted.
Mr President, the new cooperation Agreement signed in Cotonou represents an ideal opportunity to correct the deficiencies noted in previous measures and to clarify concepts and standards for action in specific situations in which we cooperate with the ACP Countries, for example, in the situation that gave rise to the Commission Communication which concerns us here and to the reports by Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Maes, that is, what should happen when an associate country is involved in armed conflict.
Along the lines of what was said by the rapporteurs, we think the European Union will have to revise its programmes of aid to countries at war, amongst other reasons to prevent the funds allocated from being diverted to military activities.
Also as a matter of principle, it should reconsider support to countries or regimes responsible for armed invasions of neighbouring countries or that spend a disproportionate amount of their resources on arms, if not on operations to repress the rights of the individual or minorities within their own population.
We must bear in mind Article 11 of the new Treaty which states the European commitment to policies of building peace and preventing and resolving armed conflict.
The dialogue between the opposing parties and the dialogue of the European Union with these same parties must be the key mechanism of these actions.
I think Parliament would benefit from greater transparency, coherence, information and control over these policies.
Finally, we must understand that the reduction or freezing of our development aid for a specific country at war would often need to be accompanied by additional efforts in humanitarian aid to the people of the country, who are the main victims of such conflicts.
Here again, the intervention of trustworthy NGOs is essential, enabling such programmes to be carried out with guarantees of success and effectiveness.
One in five Africans live in a country which is embroiled in serious conflict and, to make matters worse, the conflicts are increasing, both in number and in intensity.
The report by Mr Van Hecke is very close to my heart.
We need to be much stricter vis--vis irresponsible ACP regimes; criteria for suspending aid must be clear, and sanctions need to be tailored to each country individually.
We must target the rulers and not the population, however difficult this is, and our Parliament must be directly involved in the decision to suspend aid.
The Cotonou Convention is right in laying the foundation for further development, participation in world trade and political dialogue, but ACP countries which slip into violence destroy this cooperation and tear the Treaty to shreds.
Mr President, I warmly welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on it.
I strongly believe that we have a responsibility to use the tools available to us to promote good governance, democracy and the rule of law in our international relations.
That is because history demonstrates that responsibility for the debt lies with the lenders as well as the borrowers.
Many countries are repaying their debts several times over.
Some countries still spend more on debt repayment than on health and education combined, and yet the people suffering from this diversion of resources are certainly not those who had any benefit from the original loans that were given.
There is a valid argument that says, what is the point of cancelling debt if undemocratic governments simply misuse the funds for their own ends?
That remains a possibility.
But in the context of debt relief it also requires justice and a recognition that in many cases, the original debt has already been repaid many times over.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the pertinence of his comments and for his many proposals.
Out of the 34 poorest countries in the world, 20 are involved in a conflict.
This situation is giving rise to instability in entire regions.
In connection with one of the poorest and most unfortunate areas in the world, I should like to give two examples of the pernicious role played by unconditional international aid.
I am referring to one country which has been constantly at war since the 1960s and to another now enjoying a shaky peace, which, perversely, may be threatened by international aid: they are Angola and Mozambique, respectively.
In the case of Mozambique, where there is a shaky peace that was only achieved with great difficulty, the ruling party' s use of international aid to favour certain provinces to the detriment of others according to their election results may in itself be a major factor in destroying the peace that was achieved through such efforts a number of years ago, thus reopening the civil conflict in Mozambique.
This is an issue that should be of fundamental concern to the European Union and the donor countries: whether in certain countries like Mozambique international aid is being used as an instrument of power to legitimise a government at the edges of democracy, and is thus helping to destroy a very shaky peace.
These are issues raised by the report that warrant considerable reflection on our part.
Mr President, I also welcome both the Commission communication and the report we have here today.
One key message in all this is the need for consistency.
Consistency must be our primary objective.
Secondly, conflict prevention must be a priority of the European Union.
Far too often, we are prepared to support one against another group to the long-term detriment of peace in a particular region.
I would like to see, as I outlined in my report last month, action taken against arms brokers throughout the European Union.
In many countries, there are no controls over the activities of arms brokers.
It is no good having rules on manufacturing within the EU if EU companies are able to license production outside as a way of getting round the controls.
That requires much tougher action than we have been prepared to indulge in up to now.
Mr President, the report highlights what is self-evident, that is, that armed conflicts in Africa have seen a dramatic increase in number and intensity, and that they result in immense human suffering.
However, this compassionate language is also a way of covering up the direct or indirect but nonetheless overwhelming responsibility of the major European powers themselves in the majority of these conflicts, from Rwanda to Sierra Leone.
Today, in the Ivory Coast, even though, faced with the reaction of the population of Abidjan against the recently attempted coup d' tat, both Lionel Jospin and Jacques Chirac have taken a stand against the putsch, how is it possible not to condemn the policy of French imperialism?
The links between General Gue and the French administration are notorious, as are his links with a certain number of major French industrial conglomerates which control entire economic sectors in the Ivory Coast.
Mr President, the rapporteur should be congratulated on the excellent work that was done so intelligently.
The profile that crises have assumed in the last few decades has decidedly changed.
We must also use all the means available to us to demand that governments should always commit to ensuring the safe passage of those taking humanitarian aid to various regions.
The General Affairs Council concluded in May that the relevant bodies of the Council should continue their reflection upon the issue of development aid to countries involved in armed conflicts, on the basis of the Commission communication.
I regret that the Member States have not taken up the Commission's communication more actively.
Events in the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighbours in Angola and Burundi, the Horn of Africa and now, again, in West Africa, particularly in Sierra Leone, have shown that we cannot escape facing these difficult questions.
The Commission is considering its response and in particular the use of Article 96 of the Cotonou agreement wherever this is appropriate.
A comprehensive framework would help us to respond on a case-by-case basis to each conflict.
If the Council is willing to follow up the communication, for instance by formulating Council conclusions, the Commission will assist in ensuring they reflect the many advances since mid-1999 in the EU's policy on crisis management and in the CFSP, as well as developments in the international community's response to conflicts.
But it is clear that there are no easy solutions to these problems, as the contributions in the debate here this afternoon clearly demonstrate.
The bottom line will, in any case, be defined by the real political will of Member States to stick to a common line.
The Commission cannot promise Parliament miracles in this field.
We are prepared to broaden deliberations to other countries involved in armed conflicts.
Violent conflict is not a phenomenon limited to ACP countries.
The European Union must be prepared to react to violence in an efficient and coherent manner in other regions of the globe too.
The communication is an invitation to engage in a debate about EU relations with countries for which the traditional form of development cooperation has become questionable or obsolete.
We would prefer to devote all our efforts to assisting the ACP countries in the difficult task of overcoming poverty and of integrating into a rapidly changing global economy.
However, for a considerable number of our ACP partners, the major challenge is the restoration of peace, or the containment of regional destabilisation.
Peace is an indispensable precondition to development, and countries that remain entangled in violent conflict exclude themselves from the potential benefits of the new cooperation relationship the EU is offering them.
They contaminate the prospect of foreign investment, not only in these countries, but also in their regions.
In less unstable countries, our efforts to fight poverty and provide debt relief are contributing to conflict prevention in the longer term.
The Commission has not been idle since submitting the communication.
It has already taken numerous initiatives aimed at strengthening its capacities for effectively addressing the problem of violent conflicts in ACP countries.
We are committed to stepping up our efforts for effectively preventing violence and for resolving crises peacefully.
We are committed to making even more effective and targeted use of these instruments.
In this context we are aiming in particular to introduce conflict prevention objectives into the programming of economic and development assistance programmes.
The problem is, however, that the rigid character of these instruments is in itself a limitation to what we can do and how we can use them.
All this looks very different from the toolbox concept, which is what I think of when we talk about the numerous instruments that are available.
The toolbox concept provides a good image of the ideal situation and a satisfactory way of making use of the diversity of instruments.
There is no doubt whatsoever that the HIPC initiative, funded by the EU but not yet funded by the US, is making the biggest contribution to conflict prevention in the world right now.
I should say a few words on the situation in the Ivory Coast, in view of what has been said in this debate.
Unfortunately there has been a rapid deterioration in the situation since the elections on Sunday.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Speaking for myself, I voted consistently against it when I was a member of another parliament.
One of the first decisions that I took when I was Governor of Hong Kong, with the support of organisations like Amnesty and Human Rights Watch, was to take the death penalty off the statute book of Hong Kong and I am delighted that it remains off the statute book.
I am pleased that all Central and Eastern European countries which are candidates for membership of the Union have abolished the death penalty.
The European Union is opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances and has agreed to campaign for its universal abolition.
In my case, my opposition to the death penalty is also rooted in my belief in the sanctity of human life.
The European Union has been for some time now actively seeking a global moratorium.
The Union has defined a set of guidelines for identifying circumstances in which the European Union can take specific, targeted action.
These guidelines specify that the European Union will encourage states to accede to the second optional protocol of the Convention on Civil and Political Rights and comparable regional mechanisms aimed at the abolition of the death penalty.
The European Union shares the deep concern of all those opposed to the death penalty, that it is impossible to reduce to zero the risk of applying the penalty in error.
In countries which maintain the death penalty, the European Union aims at the progressive restriction of its scope and respect for the strict conditions set out in several international human rights instruments under which capital punishment may be used, as well as at the establishment of a moratorium on executions, so as to eliminate completely the death penalty.
During the presidencies of Finland and Portugal, the European Union raised the issue of the death penalty with a host of countries including the authorities in Antigua and Barbuda, Burundi, the Bahamas, China, Guyana, India, Iran, Kyrgyzstan, the Palestinian Authority, Pakistan, the Philippines, Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United States, Uzbekistan, the Yemen and Zimbabwe.
The European Union is especially concerned about the imposition of the death penalty on young people below 18 years of age at the time of the commission of the crime.
I said at the outset that the European Union had decided to raise the issue of the death penalty in multilateral fora.
This has not always been simple.
In particular under budget line B7-704 we are pursuing a number of initiatives throughout the world designed to mobilise public opinion against the death penalty.
In 1999 a joint programme was established between the Commission and the Council of Europe to raise public awareness about various themes related to the abolition of the death penalty in Russia, Turkey, Albania and Ukraine.
The programme, worth over EUR 670 000 over two years, will provide information to parliamentarians, to legal experts and to the general public on the penal policy arguments against capital punishment.
Mr President, Commissioner, as you have said so well on many occasions, Parliament, and with it the Group of the European People's Party, has declared itself against the death penalty and in favour of a universal moratorium on capital punishment, the sole objective of which is to achieve the definitive abolition of the death penalty throughout the world.
It could not be otherwise, given that this practice, which is directly connected with respect for human life, runs contrary to the defence of human rights, the first of which, the basis and foundation for all the others, is the right to life, which is promoted by the European Union.
There comes a time, however, when words are not enough and a far more aggressive attitude must be adopted in defence of what, for the Christian Democrats, constitutes the very core of our philosophy and our political action: the transcendental value of the person and the right to life from the moment of conception until their natural death; two principles which are incompatible with the application of the death penalty.
Therefore, we are not only advocating its abolition, but also proposing the possibility of using budget lines intended for human rights to campaign in favour of a moratorium on the death penalty, and that non-governmental organisations, both international and local, and religious authorities may also participate in the implementation of these budget lines.
Nonetheless, it is still applied in 90 States and we cannot turn a blind eye to the 1,625 known executions carried out in 1998, 80% of which took place in just four countries, including, in third place, the United States of America with 68 executions.
Therefore, together with respect for human rights, the abolition of the death penalty must be a key element, Commissioner, in relations between the European Union and third countries.
If the death penalty - as the community of San Egidio told us - dehumanises our world by giving primacy to reprisals and revenge, then placing all measures, both economic and political, within our reach in order to banish a practice that is contrary to the principles and values that constitute our raison d'tre should be a priority objective for the European Union.
Mr President, once again Parliament has declared itself to be in favour of human dignity and against the death penalty.
But on this occasion it has done so following the approval by the Convention of the definitive text of the Charter on Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
This Charter actually devotes its first chapter to human dignity, stating that it is inviolable and will be respected and protected.
Parliament has spoken in favour of the Charter being incorporated into the Treaties and these rights of European citizens being applied to citizens of third countries.
However, it is more relevant than ever for us to ask ourselves whether it is time to demand that the Commission and the Council incorporate the abolition of the death penalty as a clause respecting human rights into negotiations with all third countries, not only those waiting in line to become part of the European Union. 1999 was another bad year.
According to Amnesty International, almost 2000 people were executed and in 63 countries 4000 others were condemned to death.
I draw attention to the United States, not because I am anti-American, which I am not, but because we are talking about a democracy with which we are on good terms, which watches over the interests of peace and democracy in the world.
I would like us all to ask ourselves whether we can do more.
I believe that if we do not turn this fight into a political commitment, with a capital P, as a fundamental part of European foreign policy - and that is why I am pleased that Commissioner Patten is here - we will be doing less than we could to prevent this barbarism.
Every execution is an error that democracy, the defence of human rights and human dignity cannot accept.
Mr President, I welcomed Commissioner Patten's speech, in particular his words about his own personal experience, and the absurdity of a punishment which is becoming increasingly less effective in the world as a deterrent in the minds of a growing number of citizens.
When our international institutions, when the AJA Tribunal is faced with the sentence inflicted on the criminal Tadic - who is guilty of heinous crimes - and we compare these appalling crimes with any of the incidents in any countries, including democratic countries, as a result of which thousands of people are now waiting on death row, we may be able to appreciate the fact that what had been a purely European characteristic, that is the rejection of capital punishment, may - in political time, not historical time - spread until it becomes the clearly predominant political, institutional and humanitarian modus operandi throughout the world.
This, Mr President, is why it is necessary for the Commission - and I would ask Commissioner Patten to give an incisive response - to make good use of these amendments to the European Union's budget that were tabled by our Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party in respect of the 2000 budget.
I therefore propose, Commissioner, that you consider the possibility of Europe establishing a European Day of protest against the death penalty: this would make a substantial contribution to generating a universal consciousness from that cradle of civilisation which Europe is and wishes to remain.
Of course, a moratorium would not have been able to prevent the 4 000 arbitrary executions which have taken place in recent years in Iraq or the thousands of executions which have taken place in China, but in other countries, especially the United States, the only great democracy still to exercise the death penalty with stubborn pride, this long labouring to mobilise public opinion to call for a moratorium is having some, very slight, effect.
Mr Bush, in whose State 144 executions have been carried out, succeeded in removing the issue of the death penalty from the electoral campaign and discreetly and hypocritically postponed the executions in his State until after the elections.
The death penalty irrevocablyviolates the right to life and is inevitably cruel, inhumane and humiliating.
In the year 2000 alone, 70 people have been executed in the USA.
There is a long list of countries in which the death penalty is carried out or in which death sentences are imposed, such as China, Iran and Iraq.
Although no death penalties have been carried out in Turkey since 1984, over 69 people have been sentenced to death.
The Turkish Parliament has the final word on carrying out this sentence and has 49 cases to deal with.
Whether it is Abu-Jamal in the USA, alan in Turkey or even the execution of Abdul Achmin Sabiin Iraq - we should condemn all of this.
I regard the death sentence as a barbaric ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, in the same way as the Treaty of Amsterdam and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, Parliament has repeatedly declared itself to be opposed to the death penalty which sadly, as has been pointed out, still exists in many countries of the world: countries with antidemocratic traditions such as Communist China and extremely liberal countries such as the United States.
However, we know that this is not at all the case; we know that the death penalty is an abhorrent practice, a form of State-legalised crime.
This is precisely why we must promote a Europe-wide campaign for a moratorium on the death penalty, a large-scale human rights campaign which involves everybody, from those with political or institutional roles to the citizens themselves, especially the younger citizens, precisely in order to create genuine civil awareness of the matter and to put political pressure on the countries in which the death penalty is still part of the law.
I refer, in particular, to China, which, as the Commissioner too mentioned, issues a death sentence every day of the week and in general shows very little respect for human rights but which, regrettably, is also a highly attractive trading partner for all the European countries and one they cannot do without.
I would like to end by saying that these campaigns against the death penalty would be much more efficient and much more widespread if we were to succeed, as an institution, in conveying to our citizens the idea that we are simultaneously working, with equal determination and efficiency to build a safe Europe where it will be possible to eradicate terrible criminal scourges, such as drug trafficking, the exploitation of human beings and child abuse, in the very near future.
Having said that, Commissioner, I feel that, precisely on this type of subject, working in conjunction with organisations which operate in society or with non-governmental organisations is a key factor, for these organisations usually have greater room for manoeuvre, and are able to be bolder and uphold positions which are, so to speak, less influenced by other considerations or interests, in themselves legitimate but all too often liable to lead governments and institutions to compromise and assume less forthright positions.
This is precisely why part of the resolution calls upon the Commission to be more explicit in its report and in providing transparent information on the use of the year 2000 budget lines relating to this matter and to democratisation in general.
It has, in fact, happened in the past and still happens that the very organisations which have put most work into this matter have, so to speak, been excluded from working with the Commission on a project, even though they have been doing so for many years because, it appears, there is no more funding and we do not know exactly where it has gone.
That is why, Commissioner, I feel that transparency and the provision of information would benefit a joint project which, I feel sure, is of interest to us all.
At the moment - as it has been said - the images of the American electoral campaign and the final debate between the two main candidates are fresh in our minds; a debate in which the candidate for the Democrats stated publicly that the only thing he had in common with his opponent was being in favour of the death penalty.
I think it is important for the European Union to head the campaign to abolish the death penalty, given that it is a campaign in favour of human dignity and the most basic of fundamental rights.
Commissioner, I believe - and you expressed this very well - that when developing the European Union' s external affairs policy we must consider, with regard to the third countries, that there is already a declaration annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam which clearly reflects that to be eligible for membership of the European Union, candidate states must have abolished the death penalty.
But, I insist, in relations with third countries we must be extremely clear and firmly promote relations with those countries that share our views on this matter.
Mr President, I believe that the institutions must live up to the values of our civilisation and that our citizens must see themselves reflected in the ethical mirror that, as a result of our work, we should be for them.
Mr President, Commissioner, if every petition which we discussed and approved in this House were worth a life then I would be satisfied.
We must avoid turning our reasoning and indignant declarations into a wake because, while we are expressing our indignation, executions are still being carried out.
The second point - which you raised, Commissioner, and which, I am happy to say, was taken up by many of the Members - is that the Commission must exercise great care in allocating its financial resources in order to support campaigns which are able to alter the public perception of the death penalty.
You mentioned the year 2000 budget lines aimed at financing campaigns for the abolition of the death penalty.
So I urge the Commission to focus and extend the use of the assistance funds to the two main nations where state murder is practised with no restraint and with great relish: the People's Republic of China and the United States of America.
Yes, we know the issue has been raised ritually and periodically with the governments of both countries, but we have to do much more.
For instance, as regards the United States, some of this money should be invested in sensibilisation campaigns in Europe, certainly not in order to boycott a sovereign state like Texas, but to re-route European tourism and European industrial investment to those 12 states that do not indulge in such a barbaric practice.
Mr President, I am personally opposed to the death penalty for a variety of reasons, and despite this, I would like to make two fundamental observations which are at odds with everything that has been said so far in this Chamber.
In the first case, we are talking about the highest penalty for extremely dangerous criminals who, moreover, have been able to avail themselves of very many defence mechanisms in the democratic court procedures.
If I were convinced that in Europe, there is the will to look after the fate of victims and the safety of victims, I, along with you, would condemn the death penalty here today without any reservation.
Mr President, Commissioner, this debate, which is a repeat of other, previous debates would, on the surface, appear superfluous and outdated.
Despite certain very tragic events which have taken place in Europe, despite the fact that there have been fascist and communist cultures that have trampled underfoot rights to freedoms and the rights of individuals, I feel it noteworthy that agreement has been reached time and time again in this Parliament in discussing the death penalty and firmly condemning it in any form whatsoever.
We Italians are of the tradition of Cesare Beccaria, as has already been said, but Beccaria was a man who belonged to Europe, who rejected mediaeval, obscurantist law in its entirety in favour of modern law, in favour of a legal system which does not make us wolves to our fellow men but, by means of peaceful civil coexistence, guarantees freedoms.
Capital punishment is always incompatible with peace in civil coexistence and we must find the courage to declare that accepting a moratorium - although that would be great step forward - is not enough to make a country genuinely democratic: to achieve true democracy it must abolish the death penalty.
Mr President, in 1999, eighty-five percent of all executions took place in only five countries: China, Iran, Saudi Arabia, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the United States.
It violates the right to life, is irrevocable and can involve innocent people.
We therefore give our warm support to Commissioner Patten' s policy.
Mr President, it is high time we adopted a universal moratorium on the death penalty, this 'veritable administrative murder' , as Albert Camus called it.
A total of 77 states still see the death penalty as the appropriate response to certain crimes.
In 1999, 1813 people were executed in 31 countries and there are at least 3 857 people condemned to death in 63 countries.
In the United States, opinion is still very much in favour of capital punishment, but its hold has been shaken.
And I am in favour of this proposal being advanced at a European level.
On 10 December, hundreds of thousands of petitions will be handed in to the United Nations.
I have spoken on radio and television programmes.
I have been booed for what I have said at public meetings on capital punishment.
I just ask Parliament to reflect on the fact that this debate included speeches all of which were on the same side - a side with which I passionately agree.
That suggests to me that we need not only to think about public information campaigns in other countries, but occasionally to think about the need for continuing public information campaigns in the European Union as well because I am not sure that everybody outside these extraordinary halls, outside this Parliament, thinks exactly as we do.
And we must remember that it is one of the tasks of political leadership to carry public opinion with you and not just to assume that everybody agrees with us.
We want to have a good clean text denouncing capital punishment and asserting the universal validity of human rights including the sanctity of life.
We want to continue to build on what has been achieved in the Commission on human rights in order to build up the majority that we would like to see in the United Nations itself.
It is an issue that we raise again and again in our human rights dialogue.
I cannot say hand on heart, or even hand off heart, that it is getting us very far, but we continue to raise the issue.
We called upon the United States to establish a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, with a view to completely eliminating capital punishment.
They may agree about capital punishment.
The number of executions, the number of people in prison, the number of executions in the United States is extraordinarily high for a country whose democracy was celebrated in such appropriately eloquent terms by Alexis de Tocqueville a century ago.
I am not sure what he would have thought about the amount of capital punishment in the United States.
I hope we use our intellectual as well as financial resources to put the case again and again for the sanctity of human life, against the intolerable practice of capital punishment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken on Thursday.
But I told President Trajkovski that much as I would have liked to have attended, I needed to be here in this Parliament today, demonstrating democratic accountability in action.
I have had several debates and it has been a pleasure to take part in them.
Like many honourable Members, I had long hoped for the chance to report on such a visit and on our efforts to build ties with a democratic Belgrade.
Many of us have been surprised and inspired by the triumphant return of democracy to Serbia in recent weeks.
In the summer I reported to this House about a Serbia that was an outcast among European nations, about the repression of the brave, independent media, about our support for the opposition.
Today, although it is early days, the opposition are in government and the independent media suddenly find that they are no longer embattled and alone but in the vanguard of a new effort to create a truly open and pluralistic media for the whole country.
From the moment the people of Serbia made their democratic will clear and from the moment they insisted it should be respected, the European Union has been as good as its word.
Barely four days after the democratic transition on 5 October, European Union foreign ministers announced the lifting of sanctions and the immediate repeal of the oil embargo and the flight ban.
They expressed a wish for Member States to re-establish or normalise diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia at the earliest opportunity.
They underlined the willingness of the European Union to contribute to the institutional and economic rebuilding of the FRY and they extended an invitation to President Kostunica to attend the informal European Council in Biarritz and to participate in the regional summit that the Presidency is organising and which is to be hosted by the Croatian Government in Zagreb on 24 November.
The day after the foreign ministers' meeting, Foreign Minister Vdrine representing the presidency, flew to Belgrade to inform President Kostunica in person of the measures decided by the European Union to honour the promises it had made to the people of Serbia during the election campaign.
The same day, just five days after 5 October, a team of Commission officials arrived in Belgrade to discuss with President Kostunica's advisers an urgent, short-term assistance package.
Later that week, the European Commission proposed to the European Council at Biarritz that the budgetary authority, including this Parliament, should approve an emergency package of assistance to Serbia worth EUR 200 million, 180 million of it mobilised from the emergency reserve.
In Belgrade I met President Kostunica and held a separate meeting with him and some 80 mayors from democratic municipalities.
I visited the headquarters of the students' resistance movement, and met the brave independent journalist, Marislav Filipovic, jailed by Milosevic for telling the truth and recently freed under President Kostunica.
I met with Professor Labus and his colleagues of the G17 group of economists and with colleagues from the World Bank to discuss both short-term help and the longer but vital task of long-term reconstruction, especially institution building and building the rule of law.
I also visited the studio of the independent television and radio station, B92, which was harassed by Milosevic and supported amongst others by the European Commission and whose journalists, like other independent journalists, will deserve prominent and flattering mention when the history of the last few weeks in Serbia comes to be written.
I also had important meetings with representatives of the democratic opposition of Serbia and with NGOs and representatives of civil society, including the impressive head of the Civic Democratic Alliance, Goran Svilanovic.
I briefed European Union heads of mission before my departure to Montenegro where I had meetings yesterday evening with President Djukanovic and Prime Minister Vujanovic.
Let me just say a word about my meeting with President Kostunica and the emergency assistance package that we are finalising for Serbia.
I was impressed by his commitment to democracy and made very much aware of the huge challenge he faces in consolidating democracy in Serbia, especially in the run-up to the Serbian elections.
I applauded the approach he had taken at Biarritz and during his recent visit to Sarajevo, in particular his willingness to establish diplomatic relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina without delay.
It seems to me that President Kostunica has made an impressive start in formidably difficult circumstances that few of us predicted a few months ago.
We are going to launch a new programme called Towns for Democracy to provide basic municipal improvements and services and we are going to reinforce our support for the media and civil society in this critical phase.
We are going to do everything we can to alleviate the problems but it will still be tough because Milosevic has left Serbia's new leaders with a spectacular shambles.
We will have to work with others and, despite our efforts, Serbia faces a difficult period.
But we are working flat out to get our help on the ground as rapidly as possible, which means from the second half of November.
The people of Serbia know that, from now on, they do not have to face the future alone but with the staunch support of the European Union and the entire family of European democracies at their side.
Let me make a further very important point: none of the assistance that I have described is at the expense of our efforts elsewhere in the region.
I and, I believe, ministers in the General Affairs Council are acutely aware of the European Union's obligations to Croatia, to Bosnia-Herzegovina, to Albania, to FYROM and to the people of Kosovo and to Montenegro.
We are not going to relax our efforts elsewhere in the region.
That was one reason why I visited Podgorica yesterday, my third visit since March and the first time I was able to fly in with a visa from Belgrade.
I discussed our considerable assistance programme with President Djukanovic.
I listened to the views of the prime minister and the president on recent developments and on relations between Montenegro and Serbia.
There is still much to do.
Democracy, although I believe it to be irreversible, is still young and fragile in Serbia.
The European Union is ready for that task and stands ready to do all in its power to deliver on the hopes of so many whose lives have been blighted by the horrors the Milosevic regime inflicted inside and outside the borders of Serbia.
Mr President, let me start by thanking the Commissioner for his swift visit to Belgrade and for reporting back to us so promptly.
My second question relates to Kosovo.
We know what can be done and we are in a position to make the funding available tomorrow, which I am very pleased about.
I am also sure that under your auspices, Commissioner, emergency aid really will be provided swiftly.
I have two questions.
Mr President, Commissioner, the dramatic apology of the Yugoslavian President, Mr Kostunica, also referred to by my fellow Member, his admission of guilt and the guilt of the Serbian people - something which many nations have never done - is a gesture which does him credit and which will make an important contribution to improving the climate in the region.
It does not mean that we abandon or surrender our principles or our values.
I would love to be able to clear the Danube in a couple of weeks time but it is not possible.
One or two people have suggested that perhaps things could be done a little more quickly and perhaps we should take that as encouragement to speed up and deliver as rapidly as possible.
While that is going on we will be, I hope, assisting Yugoslavia in dealing with the problems about its membership of the UN, its membership of the World Bank and its problems with the IFIs to which it owes considerable arrears.
I hope we will be able to deal with those problems and have completed the needs assessment by the middle of next year.
That is going to be a considerable task but since there are so many capable and able Serbs helping in the economies of Australia, Canada, Germany and other places around the world, all of us can look forward to the day when Serbs are able to do a great deal more to make their own economy in Serbia prosperous and successful.
On sanctions, we have lifted - as the House will know - the sanctions on oil and air flights.
Speaking for myself, although it will be a decision that the General Affairs Council will have to make very speedily, I am always reluctant to be more catholic than the Pope or - to use a more appropriate expression - more orthodox than the Patriarch: if we are told by the authorities in Belgrade that they want to get rid of the financial sanctions it would be slightly surprising if we were to say "steady on, we think we can design some smart sanctions which will meet needs which you say you are quite content for us to forget about".
I went to see the NGOs working in humanitarian and free media fields, financed by the European Union, and the picture was not a particularly happy one.
I want to ask the Commissioner if he will confirm that he will thank the staff of the Commission both in Brussels, and in particular in the Belgrade office under Michael Graham, the head of the delegation, who throughout this time have gone through enormous change and have actually wrought a major difference in the process of moving towards democracy.
I would like the Commissioner to confirm that he will thank not only those people but also the NGOs working in the field.
More particularly I hope he will accept the thanks of this House, because he has demonstrated that democratic activism not only works in Hong Kong but also in Serbia.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for his efforts and I hope I can without being pretentious assure him that the relatively low attendance in this House does not, I am sure, reflect the level of interest in this subject.
I understand this, given that there is a new leader, President Kostunica, and that it is necessary to be involved in the process with him so that things can go ahead properly.
There needs to be a risk control plan not only for this region, but also for the town of Pristina and for other towns in Kosovo.
I would therefore like to draw your attention to this and to tell you that there is a social problem.
The organisations in the media field have done magnificently.
We were superbly well-served by the Swedish-Helsinki Committee, for example, but there has been excellent cooperation and despite all the difficulties put in our way by Milosevic's regime, we were able to get a considerable amount of help through to the democrats and the democratic forces in Serbia.
That I hope played a small part in bringing about change.
The honourable lady was entirely right to say that it is sometimes suspected that encouraging regional cooperation is a sort of Brussels stalling on the route towards Europe.
The European Union is the best example in the world of countries dealing with ancient animosities, countries becoming both more politically stable and more prosperous by knocking down frontiers, by knocking down boundaries and in certain areas pooling their sovereignty and doing things together that they do better together.
For example, we are saying to them, we will give you very generous trade access to our markets but you have to give generous trade access to your neighbours' markets as well.
President Kostunica said at the meeting with mayors, that in the new democratic era Yugoslavia was going to have to do quite a bit about gender mainstreaming because they were only I think three women in the room at that meeting.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Even though the substance of the proposals deserves a few comments and a few criticisms, as you will see, the truth is that this initiative has sent out two incontrovertible political signals.
This Green Paper has opened the debate on the architecture of a future emissions trading system within the European Union.
First, this system will allow industries, companies and Member States to gain practical experience and prepare themselves economically for the 2008 launch of the emissions trading system at an international level.
Let me highlight six points from my considerations.
One: the Green Paper should have set quantified targets for greenhouse gas reduction to be attained by the emissions trading system; in other words, the Green Paper should have said what percentage of greenhouse gas reduction would be allocated to emissions trading.
Four: in the debate on the scope of the system, the Commission should not have set direct emissions trading between companies as the only possible option.
Five: I believe it is crucial to involve the countries applying for membership of the European Union in the emissions trading system as soon as possible.
To this end I invite the Commission to present a plan in a forthcoming communication specifying how those countries can be brought into the emissions trading system.
It is a disappointment because it results in the role of policies and measures, in other words, the role of domestic and Community political action, being sidelined in favour of market mechanisms.
It is also a disappointment because this communication results in an unbalanced treatment of the various economic sectors; in particular it was hoped that those sectors that were not included in the emissions trading system might see the approval of an ambitious approach with well-defined commitments in the other communication, the one on policies and measures.
Note that, regardless of the result of the American elections, it will be Bill Clinton and Al Gore who will be negotiating the Kyoto Protocol in The Hague.
If Al Gore wins, there is nothing to prevent it continuing to be very difficult to find the two-thirds majority in the Senate needed to ratify the Protocol.
I therefore think that the European Union should not give up its negotiating agenda.
The Green Paper constitutes the first step towards establishing an instrument which is in conformity with the market, which prescribes a ceiling for emission levels and which, in time, will offer very efficient and effective opportunities to reduce these emission levels.
I hope that this misunderstanding can be put right with a number of amendments.
In the final analysis, we should fulfil our collective responsibility to manage God' s creation in a responsible manner and without any hesitation.
The subject of emissions trading entered the debate on climate as part of the so-called flexible mechanisms.
For this reason, the European Union has decided to propose that we should adopt a system of trade-offs in greenhouse gas emissions within the Union as from 2005, and this is therefore different from what the Kyoto Protocol itself makes possible, which is that the international emissions trading is to start as from 2008.
But within the European Union this system can be tried out and it can be developed.
The key point about emissions trading is that in future not only electricity and gas will have a price, but also CO2.
That sounds very simple, but it means a total revolution in the energy business, in the energy sector.
I hope that following successful completion of the negotiations in The Hague, the European Union will ratify the Kyoto Protocol.
That means that we will be legally committing ourselves.
The next thing required is for the Commission to bring forward a directive sharing the burden among the 15 Member States.
In other words we will then have a common energy policy via environment policy, which would be a very circuitous route.
We could then start emissions trading within the European Union in 2005.
Climate change is evident all over the world and we in Europe are not so badly off as those in other regions - I have in mind the West Coast of America and also Bangladesh.
We now need to implement the Kyoto objectives and the next climate change summit in The Hague must go further than our efforts so far.
Since it is also clear that CO2 bears most responsibility for climate change and traffic is increasing further, what we need above all are concrete proposals for limiting urban traffic, and for appropriate taxation of transit traffic or for suitable road pricing arrangements.
We in Europe are in the vanguard of environmental policy and if we want to maintain our credibility then we must go further than is proposed in the White Paper today.
National policies, whatever they are, will have to go through national parliaments, but we will have a hand in agreeing whatever comes forward as a European Union policy as a consequence of The Hague.
We would like to be able to send a bigger delegation.
We would also like our representatives to be briefed before the conference.
Finally, given that we know the causes of climate change, or are fairly clear that we know the causes of climate change, future generations will hardly forgive us for being so slow to deal with it.
Let me first of all thank the rapporteur, Mr Moreira Da Silva, who has produced two excellent reports on our current climate change strategy.
Let me also express my appreciation for the continued importance the European Parliament attaches to the global problem of climate change.
As you know, the European Union strongly supports the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol by 2002 at the latest, which will mean Rio plus ten years.
The European Union intends to ratify the protocol as soon as COP6 is successfully concluded with decisions that safeguard the environmental integrity and credibility of the protocol.
Industrialised countries emit most greenhouse gases and have a responsibility to show leadership in tackling climate change.
The outcome at COP6 should ensure this by balancing the use of Kyoto mechanisms such as emissions trading with domestic action - supplementarity - and by addressing the need to demonstrate progress on policies for reducing emissions by 2005.
These are necessary to make the mechanisms work effectively because markets can only work efficiently in a solid institutional framework.
Sinks should not be included in the CDM - the clean development mechanism - because this is a mechanism that should be used to bring social and economic development to countries.
At COP6 we should develop these issues and agree that the clean development mechanism should be based on safe, environmentally sound technologies which will help these countries develop in a less polluting way.
A final decision concerning the number of MEPs to attend COP6 is expected by 31 October; the Commission has proposed that the European Parliament be represented by eight Members.
I can also give a commitment to organise an appropriate briefing before COP6 starts, maybe between 7 and 11 November, if possible - we will try to arrange that in the best possible way.
Let me also comment on the question about ratification without the United States.
The European Union is very committed to the ratification and entry into force of the protocol by 2002 at the latest.
I am pleased to note that the Commission is supported by Parliament and the Council in its efforts to build up an effective European climate change programme.
The opinion of the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on this programme stresses that policies and measures should be the priority of EU climate change strategy.
It is important that this strategy is endorsed by all stakeholders and that is why the Commission has embarked on this multi-stakeholder process in the framework of the climate change programme.
The Environment Council recently adopted conclusions on policies and measures to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, confirming the choices made in the framework of the European climate change programme.
At the same time they indicate some specific priorities in the transport, energy efficiency and industry sectors that should be developed, taking into account the environmental impact and cost-effectiveness of these measures.
These suggestions will be carefully considered in the ongoing work in the European Climate Change Programme.
As you know, the programme is up and running and the six existing working groups - flexible mechanisms, energy supply, energy consumption, transport, industry and research have been operational since last June.
The first impression is certainly positive after the first four months.
A progress report on this programme will be the basis for my oral presentation at the special Climate Council on 7 November.
Despite the very short time available, the programme is already suggesting a first list of likely measures in all the relevant sectors.
Therefore, this Climate Change Programme is a unique opportunity to bring together all the elements of an ambitious EU climate change strategy and the Commission will follow-up by finalising the most promising proposals.
On the Green Paper on emissions trading, I would like to thank Members for having considered it so substantively.
The Commission is eager to hear the views of stakeholders and of course those of the European Parliament.
Differences of opinion on the details should be expected when approaching a new instrument in environment policy and I warmly welcome the supportive and constructive attitude that Parliament has taken.
I hope that the Green Paper has gone some way towards overcoming this mistrust.
Emissions trading within the European Union would be another policy measure that would coexist with other policy measures that are now in place or are being developed by the Commission in the context of the Climate Change programme.
I do not think that emissions trading favours nuclear power more than any of the other climate change measures that are being considered within the European climate change programme.
The case for getting started by 2005 remains as strong as ever so that the Community can benefit from learning and by doing.
Moreover, it is my intention - and I have already had talks on this last October - to involve the central and eastern European countries in any future emissions trading regime.
Finally, the responses to the Green Paper that have been received so far - about 50 in number - reflect the high level of interest in this instrument.
Opinions on what to do next vary and the Commission will decide how to move forward within the next few months, after the submissions have been analysed in more detail and when we know the results of COP6.
It has always been and remains the Commission's wish that whatever the Community does on emissions trading should be fully compatible with the Kyoto Protocol's emissions trading system when it comes into effect.
Even the climate experts tell us that the very meteorology of our regions is changing.
And so, now that, sadly, our dead have been buried, the journalists have left the devastated areas and the river, in this case the Po - I live by the Po - is again taking its normal course, it is time, as we say in Italy, to put up our umbrellas, not to appear prophets of doom but to evaluate once again the requirements and the remedies.
We need to be making political and regional planning decisions that protect the earth even when the sun is shining.
The resolution on the conference in The Hague is that which is closest to us in time.
It has been characterised by considerable unity, which is a good foundation to have now that the conference in The Hague is beginning.
I think the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has given a clear message that we do not consider three representatives from the European Parliament at the conference in The Hague to be sufficient.
When regular meetings and regular updates during the conference in The Hague are talked about, it is also important to emphasise that these must be constructive.
The most important additions include the clear indication, exactly as found in the COP 6 document, that emissions trading itself must not represent more than 50 per cent of the measures to reduce emissions.
It is also important that measurable objectives be required for each country and for each sector.
Only half of the amendment published in the Swedish document has been adopted.
It would have been still more welcome if it had been clearer and more practical, but we hope it will be clearer following the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am very pleased that the debate on climatic change in Europe and throughout the world has given us the opportunity to recall the cyclone that struck a large part of Europe.
Terror struck Valle d' Aosta and the other regions and countries affected, which this terrible ordeal has placed in a veritable state of emergency, facing a long, costly list of damages.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our climate is already changing.
The Kyoto Protocol is too restricted.
After 2020, developing countries too are supposed to fight greenhouse gases, but on an equal footing.
Each world citizen has the same right to emit CO2.
American citizens should not be entitled to emit two hundred times more CO2 than people in East Africa.
The swift ratification of the Kyoto Protocol is the right way forward.
Europe must make every effort to achieve this 8% objective.
A responsible policy on the part of the most developed countries must be based upon those countries' being able to reduce their own emissions.
When it comes to Mr Moreira Da Silva' s reports, we agree with the content of most of the paragraphs, but we are more sceptical about emissions trading.
Mr President, in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in disasters on our territory: natural disasters which, in many cases, have caused havoc over entire regions and countries, natural disasters which are not entirely due to climate change - itself caused by interference from man - but which are also the result of changes made by man to the land, brought about by administrations, governments and citizens who have failed to make better provision for the environment, preserve it and guarantee its future.
This year, Italy suffered first the tragedy in Calabria and then the current colossal tragedy, which has claimed over 25 deaths and left over 45 thousand homeless in the north.
The Italian government, which has set aside ridiculously small sums given the scale of the disaster - of which, moreover, warning was given - in a key production area for Italy and Europe, is treating these hard-working people inappropriately, irresponsibly and inefficiently, as it did the people affected by the earthquakes in Umbria and southern Italy.
Climate protection is not a marginal subject for environment freaks, it is one of the greatest challenges of our time.
The dreadful storms and floods which have ravaged Europe and the rest of the world in recent months should be a wake-up call for us all.
Nearly all the scientific experts are telling us that these storms and floods will dramatically increase if we do not achieve a marked reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
However, I believe that we must use every possible means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
And that is the reason why on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I have tabled an amendment calling for a European climate tax which covers all greenhouse gases and is revenue-neutral.
The Group of the European People's Party also considers that nuclear energy will be indispensable at least for the next few decades if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Abandoning nuclear energy, as is planned in some Member States, who are actually going ahead with that, gives exactly the wrong signal, because nuclear power stations emit considerably less greenhouse gases than fossil fuels.
What I have observed since then is that Parliament has made certain concessions here, but always against the tactical background that we want the country with the highest CO2 emissions to come on board as regards Kyoto.
Mr President, I am glad to hear that the Commissioner is pressing for eight Members of this House to attend COP6, but I want to emphasise that we want to play a constructive role in EU strategy making.
That really spells out the differences between the approach of the United States representatives and those of this Parliament.
So the prospects for COP6 look poor, but the prospects of our meeting our goals even with Kyoto do not look that good either.
If we are serious about the environment, these must be resisted.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some people are attempting to get the nuclear debate put back on the agenda.
I believe that European environment ministers have so far adopted the very wise approach of excluding it from the list of flexible mechanisms.
Nuclear power is more expensive than other options, such as energy efficiency, for example, and every dollar that is invested in nuclear power is denied to other investments that are much more profitable.
We can help the Chinese, the Indians, Indonesia and the Pakistanis much more by giving them the means to buy refrigerators that do not consume much energy, because there will be 800 million refrigerators over the next ten years.
Mr President, the rapporteur correctly maintains that climate change is one of the most serious environmental problems we are facing today.
Although three years have already passed since the Kyoto Conference and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gases by 8% in comparison with 1990 levels, and as the European Environment Agency has reminded us, if very specific political measures are not taken, this reduction will not take place; on the contrary, greenhouse gases will increase by 6%.
I also share the rapporteur's concern for specific policies and measures to take priority over emissions trading, which should be ancillary to them.
In any case, we believe that the priority for the European Union must be specific measures and policies and the definition of a European programme on climate change, which must also have specific objectives and aims, and it worries us that this is not the philosophy that will be advocated at the forthcoming Hague Conference.
In conclusion, Mr President, I, like other Members, will recall the floods in Spain and Italy, which seem to us, like other so-called natural disasters, to be an expression of climate change.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to add my congratulations to those already offered to the rapporteur for these two superb reports.
With regard to the first report, I will simply make mention of the floods and the victims that there were in the East of Spain, attributed to climate change, as the previous speakers have already talked about both these things.
With regard to the second report, I consider that emissions trading should be approached as an instrument with which to facilitate the fulfilment of obligations under the Kyoto Convention.
Various attitudes have been adopted in the face of this flexible mechanism: expectant, reactive or active.
I think that from both the economic and environmental point of view we must adopt an active stance.
This is also an opportunity to encourage research and development in the field of new technologies for controlling pollution, contrary to the opinion of those who believe that this mechanism is a way of perpetuating the interests of the large polluting corporations.
If this tool is correctly applied, pollution will become more and more expensive and the market will ensure that products obtained through the least clean methods become obsolete.
It is essential that this mechanism is developed transparently as an integral part of the raft of measures that the Member States is to adopt within the context of the European climate change strategy.
To this end, all the Member States must take great pains to communicate with the public so that it is clear from the outset which objectives are being pursued with this mechanism and what the benefits are, that these are always partial and complementary to other types of measure.
The exact relationship between CO2 emissions and global warming is not yet entirely clear, but that should not prevent us from taking drastic measures now.
According to experts, we need to reduce current CO2 emission levels by 60% in order to halt climate change.
Sound cooperation between rich and poor countries is needed to achieve climate objectives.
Mr President, the climate changes caused by our consumer habits have begun.
We know that the most important stage will take place at The Hague in November.
We will see whether or not the parties who committed themselves at Kyoto will exercise their responsibilities and meet the demands of the global issues that await us, which put us all in the same boat and spare no one.
Our mandate is clear and our demands are forceful.
Ratifying the Kyoto Protocol is crucial, as is the implementation of domestic measures that will make a real contribution to the fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
The European Union must refuse to integrate nuclear power, even if there is strong pressure in favour of mechanisms for clean development.
The European Union does not have the right to shirk its commitments.
According to an estimate made by the European Environment Agency, greenhouse gas emissions in the EU are expected to increase by 6% during the period 1990 - 2010.
The committee also considers it necessary to increase financial support for public transport and it criticised the Commission for the fact that policy and action in the EU strategy on a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions are of secondary importance.
This is such a simple fact that I almost feel ashamed to mention it, but I believe this is the main source of confusion in the way we think.
I would emphasise, in particular, points 6, 7 and 8 of the joint resolution: Europe must call upon the Member States to update their laws on the environment, the abuse of planning permission, reforestation, the revitalisation of mountain areas and, in general, on the promotion of farming methods which are intended to protect and safeguard the land as well as yield increasing quantities of produce.
Clearly, an action of this scale cannot be effectively developed purely at national level, primarily because of the scale of the resources needed but also because of the very nature of the natural phenomena in question which, like those relating to climate change and damage arising from CO2 emissions, are in no way contained by borders.
In asking you to support our resolution, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling not merely for an urgent intervention to contribute to repairing the damage but for a longer-term policy which will make Europe an increasingly safer and more enjoyable place to live for its citizens.
Mr President, the Commission and others have predicted that most Member States will not achieve their targets for limiting greenhouse gas emissions in line with the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, so it is essential that effective measures are implemented now.
One estimate says that 10,000 people have been killed in the past two years because of the effects of climate change, the majority of them in the developing countries.
We can, and must, adopt effective and innovative solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time protect our society and our jobs.
Several economists have analysed the effects of this on a Europe-wide level, and have come to similar conclusions that there is, or could be, a beneficial effect on employment.
I hope Parliament's demands which are set out in the reports before us are acted upon and that governments approach The Hague Conference in a positive way so we can see the Kyoto Protocol ratified in the near future.
This is as much a matter of CAP reform as it is of environmental policy and it is only by drawing together the two that sensible progress can be made.
We must therefore remedy this situation.
I am therefore one of the signatories to a motion for a resolution suggesting not only the rapid application of the measures contained in the Kyoto Protocol to combat climate change, but also other types of preventative measures, for example continuing and intensifying efforts to prevent the effects of rain when creating infrastructures, and finally, aid to all the victims, given that they are not responsible for the short or long-term damage caused by human greed and speculation.
However, it should be remembered that the environmentalists are almost alone in fighting to stop construction on floodplains, to bring about the cleaning-up of water channels, to stop the concreting of river banks or uncontrolled excavations, and to call for measures on reforestation and the protection of mountains, the only operations which can reduce the amount of rain water and avoid landslides.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Europe can certainly contribute, but it is the, sometimes unpopular, decisions taken in the areas affected which will be a true measure of the commitment to attempting to ensure that such catastrophic events are not repeated.
Firstly I would like to thank Mr Moreira da Silva for his clear-sighted and pertinent analyses, and for the excellent proposals he has put forward in both his reports.
As a result, this mechanism must be looked upon not as a frontline tool but, on the contrary, as an instrument complementary to other measures aimed at reducing greenhouses gases.
We are fully aware that this mechanism does not encourage companies to become less polluting and to change their ways, and that, if nothing else is done, especially in the area of transport, we will certainly not achieve the objectives set by the Kyoto Protocol.
On this point, it seems to me that there is a case for backing one of the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, who deem it necessary to stay the implementation of a system of entitlement to pollute until the Council and the Member States have drawn up and ratified an operational plan of measures to reduce greenhouse gases, encompassing all the sectors involved, especially transport and agriculture.
Finally, where are our environmental objectives in this sort of international stock market of pollution rights and what can be expected of a system which simply opens up a huge market of rights on behalf of countries which, like Russia, may today have room for manoeuvre, not by virtue of bringing their factories up to the required standards, but quite simply by virtue of a dramatic reduction in their industrial output.
To conclude, I think that we must press for the implementation of a framework agreement of cooperation between Russia and the European Union so as to put in place ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the priority in the Union' s policy on climate must be a sustainable environmental policy, in taking decisions we must also pay attention to the importance of the international competitiveness of industry and the undisturbed workings of the Internal Market.
Although a given sector might be amongst the world' s best in terms of environmental efficiency in one country, and I can say that is true of many sectors of industry in my country, Finland, for example, it might have to agree to a more stringent quota for emissions than its less efficient competitor in another country.
It is essential to promote measures that can be implemented in practice and do not jeopardise the competitiveness of enterprises.
Along with France, my own country, Finland, is at present the only EU country where the building of additional nuclear power stations is being considered.
For that reason we should not adopt a position in this report either in favour of individual forms of electricity production or specifically in opposition to them: instead, all the various forms of energy production must be at our disposal while we formulate national climate strategies.
Voluntary agreements could in particular be a good mechanism for use in the enlargement process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in illustrating the resolution proposed by Italian MEPs, I feel that it must be said that, for the second time in five years, we have experienced a natural disaster in the same region of our country, Italy.
This has, on the one hand, allowed us to gain a deeper understanding of the issue, an understanding forced upon us by tragic events but, on the other hand, it imposes upon us certain burdens which are certainly not ours alone: they are not the burdens of one or more affected regions, they are burdens not only of the country but of the international community as well, so that solidarity is displayed and acknowledged at different levels.
And it has been displayed, at least initially, at moral, political, economic and legislative levels.
I put down two amendments, one calling for further research into the other greenhouse gases such as methane, soot, CFCs, etc.
I should like to touch on two controversial topics in the report.
One is the issue of an EU-wide carbon tax, which I reject both because it encroaches on prerogatives on taxation and because it would drive jobs offshore to non-EU jurisdictions, in my view, and be damaging to our economies.
The natural catastrophes which have struck the European Union and its citizens have had tragic consequences.
They have confronted us with severe physical damage and in some cases loss of human life, recently in Italy and now in Spain.
The Commission is acutely aware of the weight of these catastrophes.
This is why the Commission, in the area of Community action for civil protection in the period 2000-2004, is developing initiatives in close collaboration with Member States to prevent catastrophes and educate the public.
On 27 September the Commission therefore adopted a proposal based on a Council decision which instituted a Community mechanism to coordinate measures for civil protection during emergencies.
The key actions included in this decision are: identification of and improved coordination among the key actors to intervene in the case of emergencies; special training programmes to promote better cooperation and complementarity between the actors concerned; establishment of efficient communication systems to allow for better and more rapid communications.
The proposal also permits faster and more effective steps to be taken on behalf of victims.
In the area of research I would like to point out that there are currently several projects under way related to flooding as well as the concerted action to reduce the risks associated with climate.
The possibility of structural fund involvement in cases of natural disaster must fit within the requirements of the funds and the following conditions must be met: the area in question must be eligible for funding under the territorial objectives, namely Objective 1 or Objective 2.
Eligible reconstruction projects may not represent the majority of expenditure in the programme concerned.
The actions must have a transitional nature, one or two years maximum, and they may not continue throughout the programming period.
In order to call upon the structural funds for this type of action it must be shown that the programme has room to manoeuvre internally.
It goes without saying that the Member States concerned are in charge and that it is up to them to envisage what type of measure they would like to see eventually financed by the Structural Funds when the conditions for intervention are fulfilled.
With regard to cooperation on spatial planning solutions to flooding problems, the Commission knows that the Interreg III guidelines make specific reference to the possibility of formulating joint strategies for risk management in areas prone to natural disasters and drawing up and implementing integrated strategies and actions for the prevention of flooding in transnational river catchment areas.
The Commission would also expect that flood prevention actions would form part of a transnational strategy which covers areas where flooding is a particular risk under Interreg III.
For its part, the Commission will continue to give prompt and constructive consideration to this type of request.
Let me just finish by underlying the support of victims.
The European Parliament regularly asks the Commission to intervene on behalf of the victims of these disasters.
The Commission is obliged to respond that there is no longer a budget line which permits such measures.
However, the Commission has not yet taken a final position on whether to propose a legal basis for measures in this area.
The second option would be for the Commission to propose a legal basis but this would mean tying up significant sums within heading 3 of the financial perspective.
The Commission would also need to take into account the resource implications of managing any new activities in this area.
Thank you for your contribution to this debate.
No, Mr Davies, this is not something one can legislate for.
The debate is closed.
We know that they can cause deformities in the sexual organs, in both animals and humans, and we know that they can cause severe diseases, including testicular cancer and breast cancer.
However, at the same time, there is still great uncertainty concerning the collective consequences of the many endocrine-disrupting substances.
It could easily be slightly more ambitious.
In the report I have proposed that this should be done before the end of this year.
At the same time, it is essential for the most dangerous substances on the list to be identified so that initiatives can be taken immediately to intervene in respect of the most dangerous substances.
Various measures may be taken: bans, phasing out over a shorter or longer period of years and other restrictions on use.
We must also do it through aggressive use of the precautionary principle, in which connection I also think it is important to give consideration to particularly vulnerable groups.
Industry must be required to report on which chemical substances are being put onto the market, in what quantities they are being used and what the expected effects are.
We know that these substances can interact in a particularly unfortunate way.
As part of future legislation on chemical substances, I believe it would be a good thing if we succeeded in establishing a special framework, some special chapters on endocrine disrupters.
There must be a legislative framework that is based on the precautionary principle and on the principle of a reverse burden of proof.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the various groups and thank the Commission for the cooperation we have had in connection with the drawing up of the report.
It is ourselves in the Commission, the Council and Parliament who must lay down the legislative frameworks, and not the scientific committees.
The EU Scientific Committee on Toxicity, Eco-Toxity and the Environment has noted that there is a potentially global problem with wildlife.
These substances can have excessively harmful effects on reproductive functions, whether they be human, animal or plant.
Moreover, this is the meaning of paragraphs 3, 6 and 7.
Better cooperation with American and Japanese research authorities is absolutely vital.
This research alone will allow us to take into consideration the specific risks linked to these disrupters in future framework legislation on chemical substances.
The rapporteur - who has produced an excellent report - cites the precautionary principle as the basis for the relevant measures to be taken.
The precautionary principle not only leads to the implementation of legislative measures; positive, non-legislative measures may also be introduced.
My amendment aims to make this reality.
I also hope that the opinion of the Scientific Committee on Toxicity, Eco-toxicity and the Environment, which was expressed on 5 September, will be taken into consideration.
The expertise of this scientific committee is well known and it would be appropriate to take its opinion into account before any legislative decision is taken.
The precautionary principle also dictates that we should base our decision on the best scientific knowledge available.
It seems to me that this procedure is already a safeguard.
I agree with the rapporteur that our Parliament must send a realistic and responsible message to the general public, to consumers, to the Commission and also to industry in general.
Their doubts and concerns are real.
We do not know the answers and there are more than 500 chemicals from which we could choose.
I have doubts about the use of the precautionary principle and of course, about the misuse of the precautionary principle - by its nature we never know when it is appropriate to use it or not.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Torben Lund on a sterling report which can rely on my group' s unqualified support.
In my own linguistic area, the term did not become an established concept until one or two years ago.
Half of the 560 substances which are suspected of having an endocrine disruptive effect are pesticides.
In my view, this should be put right during the revision of the Pesticide Directive in 2003 at the latest.
This example shows that the harmful effects of various endocrine disrupters is a global problem that has affected even the most isolated parts of the world.
It is precisely now that there is reason for using this principle far more aggressively.
We cannot be too prompt in implementing the report' s recommendations to the effect that future framework legislation on chemical substances should be based both on the precautionary principle and on a reverse burden of proof.
I think anyone listening to this debate who has never heard of endocrine disrupters would be forgiven for thinking that endocrine disrupters were more to do with some science fiction horror story than their own public health.
Presently, Community chemicals legislation fails to address the risk that endocrine disrupters pose.
It is a worrying fact that the human body contains more than 100 chemicals which were not present 50 years ago.
A further problem is the fact that it is almost impossible to set limit values for hormone-mimicking substances.
That is why this report is so important.
One of the reasons for this is the significant potential damage that such substances can cause to animals and human beings and, most importantly, to the unborn foetus and our reproductive capacity.
The area of endocrine disrupters is a complex one where there are still many questions to be answered.
What we do know is that a number of man-made chemicals that have been released into the environment, as well as a few natural ones, have the potential to disrupt the endocrine system of animals, including humans.
Among these are persistent bio-accumulative compounds that include some pesticides and industrial chemicals as well as other synthetic products.
There are adequate quantitative data showing a causal link between exposure to these substances and a reduction in reproductive success in wildlife.
However, there are also many uncertainties since the nature and extent of the effects of exposure on humans are not well established.
I am pleased that Parliament supports the Commission objective to identify appropriate policy action on the basis of the precautionary principle in order to respond quickly and effectively to the problem of endocrine disruption.
This principle and the need to develop quick and effective risk management strategies in relation to endocrine disrupters was also stressed by the Environmental Council in its conclusions of 30 March.
Regarding research and development, the Commission's main instrument is the fifth framework programme on research and development.
I am pleased to inform you that endocrine disruption has been highlighted as a priority research topic in the latest revision of the relevant programmes concerning human health and the environment.
The recommendations in the Parliament motion for a resolution will be taken into account.
For this reason we believe that legislative action to reduce exposure in a comprehensive manner, on the basis of the precautionary principle, can be considered only when agreed test methods are available.
Agreed test methods are also necessary to launch a comprehensive exercise in the search for substitutes.
At the same time we need to take into account existing scientific evidence.
That is why we make provision in the short term to act without agreed test methods on the basis of the precautionary principle and on a case-by-case basis.
Parliament supports the Commission objective to identify a first set of endocrine disrupting substances by the end of this year and to identify specific cases of consumer use and eco-system exposure for special action without awaiting further tests.
An analysis of existing legal instruments relating to endocrine disrupters will also be part of this exercise.
First, the Commission objective of the end of 2000 is based on a two-step process: firstly a candidate list compiled by consultants and secondly prioritisation.
The second step of this exercise involves consultation with stakeholders in which we aim to achieve as wide a consensus as possible on priority substances.
I cannot give a commitment now that all 553 candidate substances will be on the priority list without pre-empting the outcome of the stakeholders' discussions, which are under way.
In contrast, initial comments received from Member States and NGOs indicate support for the report as a valid starting point.
I would like to add here that some of the criticisms are based on the false assumption that a group of 60 substances identified in this report will be the priority substances.
These substances are in fact part of a candidate list of 553 substances on which discussions on priorities are still under way.
My second comment in relation to the priority list of substances concerns the request in the motion for a resolution for a decision on intervention on specific cases by mid-2001.
In addition, the role of the scientific committees in providing independent scientific advice will be crucial in these specific cases.
Finally, as you are aware, the Commission intends to present a White Paper on the overall chemicals policy by the end of this year.
One of the fundamental principles for this policy is to ensure a high level of protection.
Clearly the endocrine disrupting strategy must be consistent with the overall policy on chemicals.
A number of specific elements in Parliament's motion for a resolution, such as the shifting of the burden of proof, a redefinition of the responsibility of manufacturers, a review of labelling legislation and grouping of chemicals for screening and testing, must be and are being addressed in the context of this overall chemicals policy.
The views of Parliament expressed in the motion for a resolution will be taken into account in the White Paper under preparation.
Finally, regarding international cooperation and information exchange, the Commission is organising a workshop on endocrine disrupters in the first half of 2001 with the sponsorship of the World Health Organisation among others.
This workshop will convene all stakeholders to take stock of progress and make further recommendations on the development of test methods and testing strategy, research and the establishment of monitoring programmes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
In recent years, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar and other circumstances have brought the level of aid down to half the level it was at four years ago.
The Commission' s proposal, however, consists in stabilising aid at the reduced level and granting aid directly to producer organisations, with which the minimum price regime will disappear.
Before the end of the year, the Commission is to submit a report on the operation of the COM on fruit and vegetables, possibly supplementing it with new proposals for reform.
The Commission justifies the proposal we are now examining on the grounds of urgency.
The problem is that, after the 1996 reform of the COM, the producer organisations became its main instrument.
Currently, however, only 40% of fruit and vegetable production is pooled within producer organisations.
A COM that only covers 40% of production does not deserve the name.
Since this is an exception in the common agricultural policy and the producers themselves have to cofinance the operational funds, an increase in Community funding is clearly the most obvious instrument for achieving this objective.
The Agriculture Committee has therefore proposed an increase in the percentage of Community financing for certain joint schemes involving several producer organisations under certain conditions, especially in the regions most dependent on fruit and vegetable production, or for associations or mergers of producer organisations.
The differences in the figures between the Commission' s proposal and that of the Agriculture Committee, which was, in fact, passed almost unanimously, basically centre on aid levels and processing thresholds.
The Agriculture Committee' s line is in fact limited to restoring pre-1996 aid levels.
A reasonable level of aid would allow producers' incomes to be maintained in a particularly difficult situation.
You see, fruit and vegetables currently receive EUR 445 million less than the ceiling set in the Financial Perspective.
In my view, budget neutrality consists in keeping within the limits set when the Financial Perspective was adopted.
Our main concern should be to improve the effectiveness of the instruments that we have all built up together.
Without a budget there can be no building of Europe, and the budget for the fruit and vegetable sector symbolises and reflects many of the main social and territorial imbalances in the common policy.
Madam President, Commissioner, tomorrow Parliament is to vote on the proposal for reform in the processed fruit and vegetable sector.
I believe this reform is necessary, but in its proposal the European Commission is not moving in exactly the right direction.
Therefore the approved amendments proposed by the rapporteur on this matter enjoy our full approval.
The list of products should be extended to include those that may be vulnerable to major falls in prices due to the weather or for cyclical reasons.
The Commission' s proposal to reduce the maximum citrus-fruit withdrawal ceiling from 10% to 5% is unjustified and I believe it should not be upheld.
With regard to dry fruit and nuts, especially hazelnuts, the request to extend the period of aid given to producer organisations that have implemented their improvement plans is still valid, as are the measures specific to this sector which are due to expire in the next round even though there has been no change in their circumstances.
These reforms mean a budget increase, but within the line approved at the Berlin European Summit.
The Commission should do its sums again in view of the fact that this ceiling is not exceeded.
Madam President, this debate is a consequence of the Commission' s proposed reform of three regulations: on fruit and vegetables, products derived from fruit and vegetables, and the aid scheme for producers of certain citrus fruits.
As has been pointed out, the Commission has acted without awaiting the report on the operation of Regulation (EC) No 2020/1996, which, according to the Commission, will be available by the end of this year.
The fact that it has not waited for this document - as would have seemed more natural - and has initiated the reform reveals that the Commission either has little interest in the results of its report or could not care less about its contents.
In my view, if the question is whether or not the regulations need reforming, the answer is yes; but, on the other hand, if the question is whether the reform they need is that contained in the Commission' s proposal, then the answer is clearly no, because improvements in the operating mechanisms of the sector must not be achieved at the expense of precisely one of the sectors that receives least support in Community budgets.
We do not intend to oppose these agreements or criticise them, because they are an exercise in solidarity with third-world and developing countries, but it does not seem sensible that the price of solidarity should be paid exclusively by a sector that has never been treated well in Community budgets.
Moreover, I give this support in the belief that the Council will be more sensitive than the Commission to the reasoned and reasonable proposals of the European Parliament.
We are convinced that the Commission' s proposal is restrictive in budgetary terms, which would mean major financial cut-backs in the sector.
It should be remembered that the fruit and vegetable sector is the first common organisation of the market to be financed by its own producers, so it is vitally important to encourage producer organisations and to support an increase in operational funds.
It must be stressed that the fruit and vegetable sector represents a considerable percentage of final agricultural production in the European Union.
I must mention the predominantly Mediterranean nature of this type of production, which affects several Member States.
In general terms it is the main source of income for almost two million families in Europe.
The fruit and vegetable sector, however, faces an uncertain future due in part to the erosion of Community preference in the Euro-Mediterranean free trade area, which may wipe out all the work that has been done.
Particularly serious are the measures designed to abolish the minimum price, which affects tomatoes destined for processing, the reduction in the limit for aid for operational funds from 4.5% to 3% of the value of the production marketed by each producer organisation, the precautionary reduction of 9.1% of the amount of aid for the first marketing year following the reform of the COM and a reduction in the citrus fruit withdrawal ceiling.
The amendments tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Jov Peres, therefore deserve our support, since they seek to correct the unacceptable views held by the Commission, specifically in its proposals against increasing aid to farmers, on increasing thresholds and on resetting ceilings for aid to producer organisations.
In the name of a global foreign policy, Brussels has sacrificed our tree growers, our market gardeners and our horticulturists, who have become a currency of exchange in the free exchange culture.
The deal is well known: fruit and vegetables, flowers and wine in the southern hemisphere and, perhaps, industry in the north.
But if we do not put an end to the global drift in European integration, little by little not only will the farmers disappear, but the whole of Europe will drown in the ocean of the global market.
Madam President, Commissioner, when developing any strategy, before starting to distort the past and adopt new operating guidelines, one must analyse how much has been achieved.
It would now seem to be irrefutable that since 1996 - the year which saw a complete revision of the COM in processed fruit and vegetables - there has not been any form of discussion, even though it had always been intended, on the impact of the COM in that sector, despite the fact that it has reached its third year of application: a period of time that has to be seen as long enough for introducing any reform initiative.
The interests of an entire industry are at stake, an industry which employs almost 2 million people in the central southern areas of the Mediterranean countries, universally acknowledged to be among the poorest countries in the European Union.
The fruit and vegetable sector is struggling between production quotas and world-wide liberalisation of the markets for want of a policy for research into biotechnological innovations.
It is the processing sector which feels the effects of the Marrakech international agreements most of all, even though it accounts for 16% of the value of European Union agricultural production.
If the philosophy behind the new COM is to promote the system of associations of producer organisations as an alternative and a complement to the European economic system of large-scale distributors, it would be appropriate for this policy to be bolstered with the financial resources needed to implement the operational programmes, ensuring real financial assistance of at least 4.5% of the marketed production instead of the 3% proposed by the Commission.
In order to be able to continue to work, producers are calling for the adoption of legislation which will support the development of the fruit and vegetable sector, not hamper it.
Madam President, Commissioner, the market organisation in fruit and vegetables was reformed in 1997 and, three years down the line, the results have not lived up to expectations.
The reform has not brought the future we all hoped for at the outset because, in fact, as was highlighted by a previous speaker, the membership rate of the producer organisations has remained very low: less than 40%.
Under these conditions, the producer organisations have been unable to have a real impact on controlling and promoting products in the fruit and vegetables sector.
We are thus faced with a paradoxical situation where one of the most important sectors of European agriculture, which covers 20% of production units, employs a great deal of manpower in production and processing, and accounts for 16% of final agricultural production, is ultimately one of the sectors least taken into account by the common agricultural policy.
Against this background, I naturally want to highlight the opportunity provided by the Commission proposal that we are debating this evening.
Finally, I hope that the Council of Ministers will make a speedy decision in respect of this reform so that it can come into force in 2001 with the appropriate funding.
The sector must secure a stronger market position.
I would like to make a number of observations with regard to the distribution of processing and threshold quotas across the countries.
But in this report, I am precisely in favour of strengthening producer organisations, also by way of responding to this report.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 July the Commission presented a proposal for amending the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, although we are expecting an evaluation report from the Commission in December 2000 on functioning of this very market organisation.
Furthermore, direct sales from the farm emphasise the regional nature of products and thus appeal to a certain type of consumer.
The result would be that the producer organisations' sales volume would fall and that they would lose their influence over these producers' direct sales activities, as regards complying with quality standards, observing production guidelines and pursuing joint market strategies.
Commissioner, this sector seems to be the hard currency used in preferential agreements with third countries and in the subsequent reviews of their protocols, with the added disadvantage that these countries produce without the economic, social and environmental conditions we have in Europe, but with the same timetables as our own producing areas.
Thirdly, the level of operational funds is also completely inadequate.
I therefore feel that certain subsidies have been particularly depleted, not only by the general fall in the euro which we have witnessed recently - in which regard it would be appropriate to take action before the situation degenerates into a dispute with the European establishment as a whole - but also with regard to the attitude to be adopted in respect of Mediterranean products.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have great sympathy for the efforts being made by the Commission and the Commissioner to make savings, which is quite justifiable.
But without wishing to indulge in special pleading, the situation in the fruit and vegetable sector is visibly deteriorating.
For example, you can live very well from 40 hectares in the area I come from, the South Tyrol.
So it is not quite that bad, but nevertheless ...
International trade agreements are to some extent at the expense of this fruit and vegetable sector and therefore benefit other sectors.
That was the reason why the Commission to some extent anticipated the report and brought forward this proposal for discussion without waiting for the final report.
But the fact that we anticipated these four areas does not mean that we will not present the report required in the COM.
In view of the budget situation and the Berlin decisions, any proposal that would have led to substantial increases in budgetary expenditure in favour of a specific sector would have been unrealistic.
For tomatoes, pears, peaches and citrus fruits, individual thresholds for Member States have been set in addition to the Community threshold, and permanent aid is paid direct to the producer organisations.
The second group of amendments are specific requests relating to the functioning of the COM, for example Amendment No 5 on new raw manure, and Amendments Nos 27, 21, 25 and 34 on special support measures for severe crises.
Amendment No 18 is intended to improve the scope for direct sales, and Amendments Nos 22 to 24 relate to the operational fund.
The third group of amendments does relate to the proposal actually being debated here.
Amendments Nos 6 and 25 propose an increase in Community support via the operational funds.
The aim of Amendments Nos 31 and 32 is to strike out the reductions in market withdrawal ceilings proposed by the Commission.
Amendment No 39 proposes simplification of the procedure for adjusting new products in the processing sector.
Amendment No 43 relates to transitional arrangements for tomatoes and Amendment No 12 calls for a study on the abolition of the minimum price.
Lastly, Amendments Nos 62 to 66 provide for direct aids for producers not involved in processing.
I cannot therefore accept these amendments.
Of course the issue of the overall level of Community financing for this sector is also to be discussed by the Council on Monday.
Amendments Nos 62 to 66 change the existing system in a way that would jeopardise efforts to develop producer organisations.
The Commission regards this as an unnecessary disadvantaging of this sector.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Madam President, when I first started to consider drafting this report, I wondered whether it was a wise decision for any politician from Northern Ireland to agree to bring forward a report on Box VIIa in the Irish Sea.
However, I believe that in politics you have to take on board some of the more positive aspects of life.
While this may have been a poisoned chalice initially, I hope that ultimately, I, Parliament and the Commission can together develop something that will be very positive and fruitful for the fishermen who depend on fishing in the Irish Sea.
Perhaps five years ago if you told fishermen in that particular area that there was a need for this, they would have said there was no need for it.
Now there would be a more positive response and a recognition that there is a problem, there has been a problem.
The real question now is how we resolve that problem.
I welcome the cooperation that has existed between the fishermen, their representatives, the Commission and local, regional and national governments, on this particular point.
It is a very technical report and requires the cooperation of the fishermen with the Commission and regional authorities to ensure that we no longer destroy what was considered a very natural resource in the past.
What the fishermen are asking is that the Commission responds to them in a more positive way than it has in the past.
That is no easy task way for anyone.
I believe we can find a way through and a positive way forward, but only if everyone cooperates.
I hope the Commissioner can be positive in his response.
It is not a burden that is easily carried so we require a review every 12 months.
However, this can only work if the problems of the origin principle and of recrimination, powers and responsibilities can finally be solved at all levels.
And it is quite simple to do that in the middle of the night in the Irish Sea.
That is why the Committee on Fisheries unanimously supported our feisty colleague James Nicholson.
Madam President, rapporteur and Commissioner, this report is a tragic tale about a fish which one author has quoted as literally changing the world in the past thousand years.
This report outlines the technical measures which can be used to preserve juvenile cod.
It can provide short-term solutions for a longer-term problem.
This will enable us to vote tomorrow on a Commission proposal which very much needs to be implemented.
I should like, however, to raise a series of questions that have occurred to me regarding Amendments Nos 1 and 2, which ask that the changes in fishing techniques to be adopted under this proposal should be subsidised under the FIFG.
Although in principle I have nothing against aid to fishermen, I do think it should be granted within a specific framework and in accordance with unequivocal criteria, and this is the basis of my question: to clarify what these criteria are.
The rapporteur invokes Articles 15 and 16 of Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 in support of his request for aid.
I think it is worth making this point clear, because it is obvious that any technical measure means an economic loss for fishermen, either directly or indirectly.
If this is the criterion that must be followed, it is also clear that if measures such as those proposed are subsidised, then subsidies will also have to be given to any others deriving from a modification of technical measures which would result in changes in the use of fishing techniques or methods, in other words virtually all the reforms under the technical measures regulation.
The major fisheries organisations in the UK - the Scottish Fishermen's Federation and the National Federation of Fishermen's Organisations - which, between them represent the interests of 1900 vessels, both support the concept of zonal management.
That is why again, zonal fisheries management which involves all fishermen working in a common fishery will ensure that the rules are applied fairly and squarely across the board.
This report is timely, as cod stocks are not only diminishing rapidly in the Irish Sea but are in spiral decline around all the waters of the United Kingdom.
Hopefully this report will mark the beginning of the recovery of cod stocks in the Irish Sea and will pave the way to the future.
There are two reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 4, which relate to compensatory aid.
Second, and even more importantly, there are Member States who have to decide under Regulation 27/97 whether they will offer fishermen compensatory aid for temporarily withdrawing from fishing activity or not.
The other two amendments, Amendments Nos 1 and 2, address a future review of the regulation and the Commission finds them difficult for the following reasons: first, the fact that everyone - the Commission, Member States' administrations and also fishermen themselves - want the regulation to come into force on 1 January 2001.
In my opinion, any delay in this entry into force is to be avoided.
This could well lead to a review of the measures and conditions to be put in place now.
If you want to defend that to the fishermen you can do so, but I will not be part of it.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
The local loop unbundling regulation is an important piece of legislation which completes unfinished business from the past but also represents an important step forward into the future.
At the same time, by ensuring that access to the local loop - the last mile of so-called copper wire - is now open to all new market entrants and is not the exclusive province of the so-called incumbent operators, the regulation will act as a significant boost for increased choice of non-voice services for consumers.
As such, it will help fulfil the promise made in Lisbon in March of this year when a number of ambitious targets were set, which, it is said, will help ensure that the gap that has opened between the European Union and the United States in the information economy is closed as soon as possible.
The procedure we had to follow, in order to act as quickly as possible upon the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit and the proposal of the Commission in July, has been unusual.
I am told that if we vote on the report tomorrow and adopt our report as voted in the committee it will be the fastest piece of legislation of this type ever processed by the European Union institutions.
Firstly, cooperation with the Commission - and I would like to thank Commissioner Liikanen and all his extremely good officials who have been working on this for their assiduous help throughout the process.
I have had the privilege and the benefit of working with a number of colleagues of all groups who have pulled together in the committee to produce the report which we will be voting on tomorrow.
Those of us who have worked on it all agree that if this sets a precedent for the future, we could perhaps consider promulgating some rules which will facilitate this kind of process in the future but also some rules on substance.
The European consumer has, in the worst cases, had to pay ten times more to connect to the Internet than the Americans.
On behalf of my group, I hope that tomorrow' s vote has a positive outcome and then the ball really will be in the Council' s court, and we shall be able to apply the new regulations within the framework of new legislation at the beginning of the new year.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks go to Mr Clegg for his excellent work.
In just a few weeks we in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy have dealt with this issue and have, under the leadership of the rapporteur, succeeded in negotiating this proposal with the Commission and the Council, a proposal that must surely be adopted tomorrow without amendment.
That is very important.
The argument that this will allow new services to develop does not stand up, given that these services can be developed by the telecommunications organisations equally well and, without the strain of having to make huge profits, certainly more cheaply.
I believe it is important to ensure that the changes take place in a controlled way, to allow all players involved the time to adjust and to guarantee the rights of all consumers.
I believe that the national regulatory authority should be able to play a fair and mediating role between existing operators and new networks.
Madam President, Commissioner, the Lisbon extraordinary European Council set a basic strategic objective for the European Union: that of becoming 'the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world'.
For this statement to become reality, it must be followed by measures to liberalise the markets, promote competition and thereby open up access for new suppliers of telecommunications services and in particular Internet services.
In my country, Italy, the conditions for the liberalisation of the last mile have existed for a long time, but the national telecommunications authority has delayed practical implementation, in particular with regard to fixing price charges for access to the local loop.
There are parties who have much to lose and, in Italy, there is a conflict of interests between the State as regulator and the State as owner or controller of some of the main telecommunications services companies.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speakers have already said, we are entering new territory with the Regulation on unbundled access to the local loop.
The aim of this is to approve the Regulation on unbundled access quickly, so that local telecommunications markets can be opened up to competition by the end of the year.
Without Nicholas Clegg and all his commitment it would not have been possible to consider the regulation so swiftly in committee and here in the plenary and, I hope, to approve it tomorrow.
He has been able to reconcile varying positions and to present Parliament's views to the Council.
The regulation is intended to provide for competition in this "last mile".
According to the latest studies, at the beginning of 2000 only 400 000 Europeans had access to broadband services, compared with 3 million in the USA.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many thanks to Nicholas Clegg also for his hard work.
This initiative will ultimately also help to promote the information society.
But quicker and cheaper Internet access without content is worthless.
Above all, the information society must mean investment in people and their skills.
One important point is that the regulation regulates in the spirit of the original telecommunications liberalisation, that is in an asymmetrical way.
I hope that the Council will not leave us in the lurch should one or other Member State perhaps still have reservations.
Mr Clegg said in his speech that this was a controversial and complicated piece of work and I think therefore we chose well to appoint him as a rapporteur.
It will not surprise this House to know that, as a representative of the British Conservative Party - and it was the Conservative Government that privatised British Telecom over 17 years ago, probably the first of the large-scale telecom privatisations in Europe - I very much welcome this essential further action to deregulate and open up the market.
We want to see the new entrepreneurs, the new Internet companies coming into the market.
Can I start by congratulating Mr Clegg on the speed and quality of his work and also welcoming him to this rather exclusive band of Members who so often are here late at night debating telecommunications issues.
Indeed Commissioner Liikanen's predecessor, Commissioner Bangemann described us once as 'we few, we happy few, we band of brothers'.
Parliament must be ready to look at new ways of working, imaginative and, as Mr Harbour says, adventurous.
Others have mentioned the Lisbon summit and it is of course right to stress that this legislation follows a commitment from the European Union Member States to support the growth and use of the Internet in Europe under the e-Europe action plan.
Much of this would not happen without this promise to provide affordable, high-speed Internet access and we note the importance of unbundling in the success of the e-Europe plan.
It is also true that the combined efforts of the Commission, Parliament and the Council have brought about this legislation as part of an overall effort to modernise telecommunications law.
Madam President, unbundling access to the local loop is intended to open up the level of competition, providing lower prices for the customer and easier, cheaper access to the Internet, fostering technological innovation in the local access area.
But as the rapporteur mentioned, many of us have been made aware of the concerns of the local telecommunications provider.
The Irish telecommunications provider, Eirecom, maintains that it should be allowed a reasonable time period to implement the changes and that the 31 December deadline is practically unachievable.
Also, charging for unbundled access to the local loop should be fair and adequate to ensure the long-term development and upgrading of the local access infrastructure.
When we combine this possible scenario with other measures that adversely affect rural areas, such as the liberalisation of the postal service, which threatens the survival of small rural post offices, and the recent closure of many small rural banks, how will the possible reduction of investment in long-term development and upgrade of local access infrastructure affect already disadvantaged rural regions?
Commissioner, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, behind the somewhat barbaric name of the proposal for a regulation which we are debating this evening, unbundling access to the local loop, an expression moreover which is totally impenetrable for the average citizen, there lies a simple yet serious decision regarding the liberalisation of the local network of voice telephony and data transmission services.
As we have heard this evening, for some in this House, the closing of the final chapter of a public monopoly can only lead to an automatic reduction in the costs of local communications and this can therefore only be positive for consumers.
For others, including me, this is far from being quite so obvious and, above all, quite so automatic.
If unregulated competition always leads to a permanent reduction in prices, and always benefits each and every consumer everywhere, this would have happened long ago.
Our rapporteur and colleague, Mr Nicholas Clegg, has certainly done a lot of work, and I congratulate him on that.
But he is very liberal and so he has naturally rejected anything that could lead to a genuine universal service.
Mr Clegg has correctly and very seriously set forth the Commission's proposal on unbundling from a technical standpoint.
But I am sorry to say that, as I see it, he has not adequately responded to the longer term risk posed for the weaker and the more susceptible players in a deregulated system, and to the risk posed by private monopolies.
It must be, and it can be, an objective in itself and, for us Europeans, a value and an asset for balanced and sustainable development.
The environment and telecommunications will in future play a very special role in international competitiveness.
This directive in particular demonstrates that we have been very thorough in aiming for fairness, and this has been a model of how to legislate, with a review, with a proper and thorough examination, with all stakeholders being consulted, and, lastly, a good, efficient, swift and precise procedure in the European Parliament.
I do not normally take a position in this House which is based purely on national considerations but it seems to me that we are attempting to put in place a regulation which is inflexible and does not take into account the position of the market in Ireland.
The proposal that we have will oblige Eirecom, a private limited company, a former state monopoly, to open up its local loop to alternative providers and will not oblige alternative providers already in the market place such as cable TV, satellite and wireless local loop operators to do the same.
Cable TV companies in Ireland already possess the network and are already gearing up their network to provide telephony, Internet and other interactive services.
The regulation on unbundled access to local loop is by its very nature inherently flawed.
When we increase competition in the networks it will cut prices, improve quality and make the services more affordable.
It will help to create an inclusive information society.
If Parliament were to accept tomorrow the Clegg report we would show that we can.
We will have concrete proof, which would increase enormously the credibility of the European Union, especially in the eyes of the younger generation which lives in this age of the Internet.
None of this would not be possible without excellent cooperation between the institutions.
It really is a key part of the e-Europe action plan to liberalise the telecommunications market to make the prices cheap and the quality of service higher.
Insofar as the implementation of this regulation is concerned, yesterday the national regulators had a meeting with Commission officials.
The Commission can also welcome practically everything in the report.
The report is supportive of the objectives and draft measures included in the Commission proposal.
First, the aim is to mandate operators not defined as having significant market power in the provision of fixed telephony networks to provide unbundled access to the metallic local loop from 31 December 2000 under transparent, non-discriminatory and cost-oriented conditions.
The Commission accepts in full all 18 amendments to the Clegg report.
They improve the Commission's proposal, providing for more accurate technical definitions and more specific requirements of the national players and national regulatory authorities.
These amendments are constructive and will ensure that the regulation is fully operational.
Thus they guarantee that unbundling is rapidly and effectively implemented from 31 December 2000.
The Commission also hopes that the Council will approve the text as amended in the report and hopefully accepted by Parliament tomorrow.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m.)
