It is a central, global body for the protection of human rights.
Together with the eighth session, to take place in the first two weeks of June, it is to debate the extension of 25 special rapporteurs' mandates, regular reports by special rapporteurs and several disturbing human rights situations in some countries with regard to certain topics.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I welcome this opportunity to address Parliament on the subject of the Seventh Session of the Human Rights Council.
The President of the Council, Ambasador Costea, was in Brussels last week to brief the Council and Parliament on preparations for the Seventh Session.
Furthermore, I see an important role for the European Union in the 'outcome sessions' of the UPR.
The European Commission and the Member States should not be slow in offering technical assistance where it is merited in these outcome sessions.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Parliament is sending a delegation to the Seventh Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council.
We see the Seventh Session of the HRC as a crucial one, because it will be the first to examine a large range of substantial issues under the new working methods stemming from the institution-building reforms package adopted in 2006 and 2007.
First, I would like to pay tribute to the positive achievements of the Council Presidency and, at the same time, I would like to stress the importance of support from the European Union and, equally, of candidates with high standards of integrity for the elections of the new President of the Council, to be held on 23 June 2008.
The European Parliament has to condemn the Council decisions not to renew the mandate of the Special Rapporteurs on Belarus and Cuba.
I would first like to mention the situation of Mrs Sigma Huda, Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons.
That gives you an idea of just how important his role is, and I would like to salute the excellence of the work done by President Costea, and at the same time draw your attention to the fact that he will be replaced in June.
We saw it in Gaza.
A standing invitation to the special procedures should be a criterion of prime importance for EU Member States.
I am grateful for the inclusion of my amendments in the text supporting the call for a special session on violence against women and for the signature and ratification by all our countries of all international human rights instruments.
If even Tony Blair cannot get Israel to allow the import of equipment to stop 40 000 litres of untreated human waste poisoning the water supply, it is time for Europe to act.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the European Union is a very important body that has to go in the right direction and lead the Human Rights Council in that direction.
The vote will take place on Thursday 21 February 2008.
