With each report the casualty list is growing.
It is an outrageous, unjustified and unjustifiable attack on the Spanish people and on Spanish democracy.
On behalf of this Parliament, I express our heartfelt, deep, sincere sympathy and condolences to the families who have suffered loss and injury; to their friends, and, through His Majesty the King of Spain, to the people of Spain and the authorities in the city of Madrid who – even as I speak – have field hospitals in the railway station and in the streets.
I repeat today what I said there: in our political duty to the people of Spain and to the peoples of the European Union, it is our firm resolve that there shall be no safe haven for terrorism and terrorists in our European Union.
Unfortunately, we now have to return to our work, but I would like first of all to express my complete solidarity with what President Cox has just said.
The present proposal, which is based on criteria endorsed by the Council, contains a new list of non-contributory benefits which are subject to specific coordination.
This coordination, based on the principle of residence, was ratified by the Court of Justice in relation to the case.
In its judgment, the Court established, on the one hand, the non-exportability of the benefits in question and, on the other, the obligation of the new State of residence to grant benefits in its territory.
On the basis of this judgment it was essential to re-examine the list in Annex IIa in order to verify whether all the benefits fulfil the special and non-contributory criteria.
The Commission, however, cannot accept Amendments Nos 4 to 8, whose objective is to exclude two Dutch benefits from Annex IIa: that for unfitness for work for young disabled people and supplementary sums or minimum incomes for receivers of social benefits.
Nevertheless, neither can the Commission accept Amendments Nos 9 to 12, which do not intend to exclude, but rather to include in Annex IIa, four benefits laid down in Swedish legislation, since they are family benefits and are therefore exportable.
The regulation defines family benefits as those intended to compensate for family burdens and this definition was interpreted in a very broad way by the Court of Justice in the joined and cases.
With regard to Amendments Nos 4 to 12, which the Commission cannot accept, the Commission insists on the importance of treating all benefits, both those whose inclusion in Annex IIa is accepted and those which are excluded, in the same way in terms of analysing the special and non-contributory criteria.
This is the approach the Commission has taken in the negotiations of this Annex for the candidate countries and we believe it must be maintained in relation to the Member States.
For all these reasons, the Commission can adopt Amendments Nos 1 to 3, as I have indicated, but not the others. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, I wish to open my speech by joining others in conveying my deepest sympathy to you, Commissioner, in light of what is happening in your country.
It should be remembered that the issue of the updating or general modernisation of the Regulation is currently being debated but also that, on many occasions, our Parliament has asked for a general overhaul of the regulations coordinating social security schemes.
The proposal that we have to consider today is basically aimed at updating the list of what are termed non-exportable benefits, contained in Annex IIa of the aforesaid Regulation.
The decisions of the Court of Justice have made it possible to single out two essential characteristics which these benefits must exhibit in order to be considered as non-exportable and, therefore, to enjoy derogations from the general principle of the exportability of social benefits: their special character in the Member State concerned; the fact that the beneficiary does not contribute to them, in other words that they are funded from, and on the basis of, general taxation in the Member State concerned; and, finally – and as a supplementary factor – the fact that the amount is in line with the minimum necessary income required to live in the economic environment of the country granting the benefits.
In practical terms, non-exportable benefits may be talked of in the case of certain additional resources paid to elderly people or designed to offset transport costs or even in the case of benefits linked to disability.
It seems to us that the import of the proposal being put to us is very positive.
Secondly, this proposal puts an end to the divergent interpretations of the various national administrations and so ensures legal security for employees induced to move within the European Union.
Thirdly, it must be possible for this proposal to be adopted without delay in order to avoid further legal disputes in this area that is very sensitive for the citizens of the European Union.
Finally, the proposal is a factor that facilitates and promotes the advances expected in the current general overhaul of Regulation No 1408/71.
This situation should, we think, give rise to a more thoroughgoing study of the citizens concerned.
There do not appear to be very many of them, but the simple fact that a number of them are likely to suffer would in our view seem to require that, when cases come to light, thought be given to having a transitional period and a series of bilateral negotiations.
Today, we are discussing a proposal that is an annual fixture and that concerns all Member States, because every year, a clear distinction should be drawn between exportable and non-exportable social rights.
The former are related to social security contributions and premiums.
Even now in the report on the proposal for a regulation submitted by the Commission, an attempt has been made to further specify the definition of non-exportable rights.
In other countries, including Belgium, the situation is probably not so very different from that in the Netherlands.
I see it as regrettable that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats seeks to use this report as a means of engineering changes that belong in the main reform and not here.
It is a balanced report and a realistic one, and what I would say to the Members from the Group of the European People’s Party is that we should not weigh it down with amendments that are actually ill-advised at the present time. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I too should like to express my condolences with Spain.
I have listened to a number of fellow Members here, and they assume that the proposal is an improvement on the current situation.
I am not familiar with the situation in all of them, Commissioner, but as far as the Netherlands is concerned, I can tell you that the situation is deteriorating for people who are unable to participate in the labour market, those who probably never have been and never will be again.
We wax lyrical about the free movement of persons, while at this moment in time, 1&#160;300 people from the Netherlands live elsewhere in Europe and will lose the benefit they are currently drawing.
I will therefore examine which premiums or proposals will receive my backing in order to haul in as much as we can, but I hope you will allow me to ask the fellow members and the Commission to consider this very carefully.
I would urge you to set up a committee which follows all the problems, looks for solutions and also consults with the Member States in earnest in order to eliminate injustices of this kind in one way or another.
I am not saying that this is the answer to all our problems, but I think that the derogation that the Netherlands has requested affects the weakest and least protected.
The benefit in question will be exported to third countries, but on the basis of Regulation No 1408/71, it will no longer be exported within Europe, and that is a huge injustice. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would also like to add my voice to the condolences that have already been expressed in this House following the unspeakable happenings in Spain this morning.
To move to the business of the sitting, I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her work on this report and for the moves that she has been prepared to make in terms of a general solution to what may be a general problem, which is, after all, part of what the Regulation is supposed to do.
One of the difficulties with this Regulation is that over the years we have seen the Court substituting for a lack of clarity in the current Regulation and, indeed, for the shifts in the development of social security systems within Member States.
Once that is adopted it will provide a clear reference framework for what is in and what is out.
It will mean that for some Member States some things will be brought into the exportability pattern.
This document will enable the current system to be updated in a very positive way and, as the rapporteur said, will put an end to the differing interpretations at national level, while making it easier for our fellow citizens to move about.
I understand the position of our Dutch fellow MEPs where a number of the benefits are concerned.
It has to be understood, however, that, in a system of social benefits, there are, on the one hand, what are termed legal benefits, having to do with retirement and sickness and, on the other hand, benefits of another type, termed non-contributory and referred to in France as optional benefits.
For families suddenly finding themselves with a disabled child, we created, in Paris, a benefit in the region of EUR&#160;500 per month for 12 months.
This benefit is now non-contributory and does not meet the criteria of exportability, meaning that, if a family with a disabled child goes tomorrow to Belgium or Spain where they are not granted a benefit of the same type, they will be hit very badly.
In a certain number of cases not exclusively concerning our Dutch friends, we must also come up with bilateral solutions, for this issue has to do not only with freedom of movement and, therefore, greater intelligibility but also with social justice.
This year’s annual update of the coordination regulation is a little unusual, for we are not only discussing technical changes, but also attempting to formulate a coherent position for non-exportable benefits.
In other words, these pertain much more to measures of social security that are payable to all citizens within the territory.
I should, nevertheless, like to make two crucial observations.
First of all, an overall agreement is to be reached shortly about the modernisation of the coordination regulation, including an agreement about non-exportable benefits.
Word has already reached me that serious attempts are being made in the Council to extend the list of non-exportable benefits considerably, thus undermining the coordination regulation.
Secondly, it is interesting if a system is constructed logically, but we should also realise that changes affect real people.
Certainly if they concern regulations that have been laid down in order to guarantee people a minimum income, we have to consider very carefully what impact changes have on a country’s citizens, and particularly if there is no analogous regulation in place in other countries.
By adding the Dutch Extra Allowance Act, which was included on the list with good reason in my opinion, nearly 200 Belgian border workers will be losing their extra allowance.
Furthermore, it is necessary for the Member States responsible, in this case Belgium and the Netherlands, to agree on transitional periods and compensation measures, possibly by means of a bilateral agreement.
Along with my Belgian and Dutch fellow MEPs, I intend to write to the ministers responsible in order to find solutions for the people who risk losing part of their income and, consequently, falling below the poverty line. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I wish to express my sympathy with your country and your people at this difficult time.
The key date will be 1&#160;May 2004.
It is then that the new Europe will be built.
Unfortunately, our celebrations are commencing, however, with all the Member States erecting new walls to keep out those who wish to come from the new Member States to the 15 current Member States.
The basic conditions are so different from one Member State to the next.
As long as we do not have a common welfare system, common funding and a common tax system, it is only sensible for us in the new, large EU to take account of different national viewpoints.
Most other countries have already safeguarded themselves and entered many benefits among the derogations in the annex.
I would therefore request the House’s full support for Amendments Nos&#160;9 to 12. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, my fellow MEP, Mrs Boogerd-Quaak and I having been on our own in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I am happy to see that a number of fellow Members have in any event seen the light today.
Something about which I, together with some other fellow MEPs, have remonstrated, is that the Netherlands has added to this list of non-exportable rights a benefit intended for one-income families, in an attempt to prevent the family from falling below the social minimum, namely a benefit of EUR 200 a month.
It is true that I am campaigning as a candidate in the European elections, but quite apart from that, I think that an MEP simply cannot justify the fact that a European citizen is treated worse than third-country nationals.
It is this unfair treatment that has caused me to include in my amendment a number of elements that I have also heard echoed in the discussion by fellow MEPs, and to submit this as a basis for a compromise.
Mobility is also a topic within the framework of the Lisbon objectives.
We already stated with regard to the Lambert report that whatever was removed from the regulation could be retrieved via the annexes, and that is what the improvements we have made risk doing in a number of areas.
The third point is that, when a benefit is no longer exportable, equivalent benefits and protection should be in place in other European countries.
A solution is only possible if there are bilateral compensation regulations between Member States.
The Member States should subsequently set to work, and the Commission should see to it that sound work is carried out. &#160;&#160; Madam President, on behalf of all my Irish colleagues I too condemn out of hand the savages who perpetrated this appalling atrocity on the citizens of Madrid this morning as they travelled to work and school.
Commissioner Solbes and all my Spanish colleagues have my heartfelt sympathy.
In relation to the Gillig report this morning, each year we visit the whole area of further clarification of the exportability of benefits to try to achieve the goal of free movement of more and more of our citizens in the European Union.
This is necessary as Member States add to or change their own legislation in this area and as European Court judgments point out anomalies or clarify certain Articles.
The problem that I – and I am sure many others like me – now face is this: my registration is accepted here in Ireland, but once I cross the border to the north, to the UK, different criteria are needed to be registered as blind, and I am led to believe that this is the case in every other European state.
This seems to say that when you enter another European country a cure of some description happens and if I was to live in another part of Europe I would have to go through the same process again.
If I am deaf in Ireland, I am deaf in Europe.
If I am blind in Ireland, I am blind in Europe.' My constituent goes on to say that it is not just a cross-border issue, but a European one.
Because this is causing major problems to the mobility of our citizens, particularly the disabled and the invalided, in the areas I have referred to.
It is 'contributory pension' in some countries.
Alongside our debate on the annual changes, the modernisation of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, which is linked to these annual changes, is also taking place.
This means that we shall presumably have to debate this annex again in the autumn.
It will then be called Annex X instead.
Annex IIA is based upon certain principles governing what may be entered by the Member States.
It is unacceptable to ignore all the principles upon which we have jointly agreed.
Of the various amendments presented, I agree with Nos 1, 2 and 3, both because of the characteristics or nature of the benefits in question, or because of the conditions for receiving them, or the difficulty or impossibility of controlling them.
Naturally, Amendments Nos 4, 5, 7 and 8, which relate to benefits whose exportable nature was mentioned a while ago, are dealing with benefits which sometimes have equivalents in the Member States, suited, furthermore, to living conditions.
I cannot agree with Amendments Nos 9 to 12; firstly because they involve family benefits in all cases.
Finally, Madam President, I would like to draw attention to making present or future health care in certain Member States conditional upon payment of certain contributions from pensions.
In the case of Spaniards residing in other Member States, their pensions would be reduced while, if they lived in Spain, they would receive 100% of them, since health care is a right which we could describe as automatic.
As I said earlier, we must return to our work and I am going to try to respond to your concerns.
There may be an intermediate way – which is being worked on and on which we may make progress – mutual recognition, which would not lead to a situation of complete harmonisation, but to a situation of recognition which could allow us to solve some of the problems.
In my opinion, the situation is that the margin here is much more evident at national level than at Community level.
If the Member States want to guarantee the future accessibility, quality and financial viability of health systems and care for the elderly, then what is needed most of all is more prevention and transparency.
Transparency, though, is an indispensable requirement if quality is to be maintained and if the best possible use is to be made of the resources that health systems possess.
Patients’ organisations have a very important part to play in this, and must, in future, be more involved in all decisions on matters of health policy.
All the Member States also face major challenges as regards long-term care and care for the elderly.
The first condition for implementing this open coordination method is that the Member States adopt a series of common objectives which allow us to establish a useful framework for the process of reforming issues relating to health.
In accordance with the conclusions of the joint report presented last year to the spring European Council, we will focus on three areas: health care, accessibility and quality and financial viability.
Without such indicators it is very difficult to assess the application of the different measures by the different Member States and to see whether this learning process, which we are undergoing jointly, is achieving the intended objectives.
We are also going to produce detailed working proposals up until 2006, when we hope to begin a new simplified process for coordinating policies which deals with health care, pensions and social inclusion.
If we want to establish this working plan, it is essential to exploit synergies, the inter-relationships in the current public health strategy and the Community action plan which is linked to it.
The Commission has also carefully examined the conclusions of the process of high-level reflection on the mobility of patients and will shortly present a communication on its monitoring.
The fact that they are all of differing legal natures does not mean that we do not have to maintain complete consistency between all of them and the Commission will spare no effort in order to progress in this direction.
We will always remember – and this is an essential point – that primary responsibility on these issues falls to the Member States, particularly in relation to health and care for the chronically ill.
Our work on the specific points is to support the work carried out by our Member States as much as possible.
According to figures contained in the European Commission’s latest report on the health situation, the number of elderly people over the age of 75 will rise to 27% by 2010.
In the next 15 years, the number of the very elderly, that is, over the age of 80, will increase by almost 50%.
Changes in the over 80-year olds age group will be greater and quicker than those in any other age group.
Changes in this area are not only necessary but also more of a priority than ever before.
In January 2003, when the Mantovani report on health systems in Europe was adopted, there was broad consensus in this Parliament in favour of developing Community cooperation to improve health systems, which, in my opinion, is the only way to deal with the ageing of the population in particular.
This trend means that European society must adapt and citizens must change their behaviour and habits.
In the decisions of the Court of Justice, these various issues&#160;–&#160;which concern different policies that compete both on an international and a national level for total subsidiarity, and I am thinking of patient mobility, the completion of the internal market and consumer policy&#160;–&#160;must be considered to be increasingly crucial and there must be a new context within which European cooperation is stepped up in order to be able to achieve tangible results as soon as possible.
There is a requirement for more extensive cooperation and for common standards to be drawn up in terms of quality and quantity.
The European Union’s objective, set at Lisbon four years ago, was to become the most competitive economy in the world by 2010.
It is, above all, strength of will that makes life significantly easier for old people themselves and also for those who care for them.
In presenting us with the issues and problems of ageing, this own-initiative report highlights one of the major social issues for Europe and calls us to ongoing work on health policy.
I am delighted that all but one of my amendments were accepted in committee, but I would like to point out that the text in recital K is not quite correct.
I hope that is going to be the case, because long-term care is not the same as long-term intensive care.
There has been improvement since the Mental Disability Advocacy Centre report on this subject last year.
Another of my amendments that was accepted – which I was pleased about –concerned the need to undertake more research projects at European level on various conditions that affect European citizens and, perhaps more importantly, for any information to be disseminated across the European Union.
I have talked to the Commission already about the possibility of publishing results on the Internet, but I am sure the Commission could come up with some other ideas.
On behalf of the ELDR Group, I congratulate her on her work and commend the report to the House. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs&#160;Lynne.
The basic principle is to be that every producer who is an approved operator in one Member State must freely be able to establish operations in any other Member State.
Instead of care provided close to patients in local environments, we shall have large multinational health care companies, medicine-producing industrial groups and health insurance companies as the large and powerful actors in a market where it is large-scale production and the profit motive that govern activities.
There are many services that can operate very well in the internal market, but there are also services – and health care is one such – that are of a different character and are not at all suited to market principles.
This can and should, however, be developed between Member States and border regions on the basis of more practical needs instead of in accordance with the abstract principle of the organisation of the internal market.
If it does not reject it, at least the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left will not be able to vote in favour of the report in the final vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to join in the condolences to the friends and relatives of the victims, the Spanish people, the Spanish government and the Spanish members of this House, and I deeply regret this brutal attack on democracy.
According to him, this idea should be the topic of a national debate in Belgium.
Sharing working practices and treatment methods should lead to an improvement in care.
Equal access to care in all Member States is desirable, but mobility of patients does not appear desirable to me on account of the costs involved.
In my country, a television station recently presented a docu-drama on the reception of poor Dutch elderly people in an African country where the care is more efficient because wages in the care sector are lower.
If we want to build up the internal market, create mobility and flexibility as well as social security, whilst at the same time facing up together to the great challenges to our policies on civil society, we will not be able to reduce them to a matter of national borders.
In my capacity as President of the Austrian Aid Organisation, I face these challenges on a daily basis.
The person being cared for must have a choice in where they stay and are cared for if they are to enjoy the right to self-determination.
They can often be better looked after by mobile care services, which adjust more flexibly to the patient’s actual needs, and this also represents a much more economic use of the resources available.
This cooperation should not be restricted to public health, the quantitative and preventive aspects, but should also pertain to the cost-conscious and effective handling of provisions and the reinforcement of the financial basis for the health costs and the costs resulting from an ageing population.
The Directorate-General for social affairs and employment should play an active role in this.
Decisions by the Court of Justice about the internal market already affect the national health systems.
Like the rapporteur, we request special measures for the new Member States which, for the most part, experience situations more critical than those in the Fifteen.
It is a need no doubt opposed to other state and European priorities and, above all, to the rigour of the monetary stability criteria.
The ageing population presents us with huge challenges, not just in Scotland but across the whole EU.
That is why sharing best practice between countries throughout the EU is so vital.
My great aunt Agnes, at 91 years of age, is one of them.
For some older patients this can be more important than the treatment of their medical condition itself.
After all, one day we too will be part of the older population, since none of us is getting any younger. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the increase in life expectancy that has arisen as a result of the scientific and social breakthroughs of the twentieth century must not now be considered a burden on society in the twenty-first.
Elderly people have the right to live in dignity, to have access to health care and other forms of care, irrespective of their social or financial situation.
This is being called into question in a number of countries, such as mine, Portugal, because of a neo-liberalism that is trying to impose itself in a wide variety of areas, including health, by prioritising competition and competitiveness, thus jeopardising quality public services and showing no respect for people or their rights.
The fact that the majority of the elderly in the European Union are women – over 63% of people aged between 75 and 84, and 72% of those over 85 are women – means that they in particular will be the ones most affected by problems in health care systems and long-term care, either as carers themselves or as people in receipt of care.
The persistence of inequalities in women’s wages and retirement makes them especially vulnerable to the consequences of dismantling public health services and to the shortage of care for the elderly.
This situation is jeopardising the principle of solidarity in health systems and contributing to the growth in social exclusion of the less favoured groups in society, who are finding it increasingly difficult to access appropriate, high-quality health care.
What is also needed is greater participation by user organisations, the health and care services themselves and their workers in the preparation and implementation of measures, so as to ensure greater democracy in the operation of these services, which must be quality services. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is an important report on an important subject and I congratulate the rapporteur on her usual thoroughness and commitment.
The title is significant: 'Health care and care for the elderly: Supporting national strategies for ensuring a high level of social protection'.
We should all want to see a high level of social protection and learn from each other via the exchange of best practice at European level but, ultimately, it is national strategies that have to deliver.
We like to think of the United Kingdom as a rich country, but one in five pensioners are in low-income households; the incomes of those over 75 are lower still.
I was told recently that in the United Kingdom there are some 40&#160;000 fewer places available in care homes today than ten years ago.
If colleagues agree, I would like to ask Commissioner Solbes to pass that message on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is generally assumed that all EU care systems are based on the principles of solidarity, justice and universality.
These entail that every person, in the case of illness or need for care, is entitled to the appropriate high-quality care without any distinction according to income, means or age.
The European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was compiled in 2000 and is to form part of the European Constitution, guarantees for the elderly a dignified and independent life and for each person the right to access to health care and medical treatment.
Additionally, staff for care tasks are increasingly scarce, since, in times of economic growth, those people are drained away to production sectors that are, for a time more profitable and offer a higher salary.
The European Union should discourage this development rather than encourage it.
In that case, the necessary funding should also be made available, which means that a larger proportion of our national income should be spent on public services in the care sector. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur.
In a Europe whose principles and objectives include the free movement of persons, national strategies must include promoting modernisation and coordination, both in order to prevent any possible social exclusion, and in order to promote our going back to a society of experience, wisdom and knowledge of the elderly.
Worthy of additional consideration are very old people, as a sector of this demographic group is described the report; since their care is going to require a large workforce, it is going to be a source of employment which, in any event, is going to require the professionals of this sector, the services, training and specialist care sector.
Firstly, the use of the open coordination method is going to provide us with a new dynamic in relation to the specific field of health.
Nevertheless, I believe there is a broad consensus on the three fundamental objectives: accessibility, quality and sustainability.
This is also reflected in the communication initially adopted by the Commission, which, as well as insisting on the need to make progress on the internal market, also stresses the need for appropriate provision of services for all patients and, naturally, the public funding necessary for these services to be provided. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, even though we are all reeling from the terrorist act in Spain, there is a matter on which I would ask you to provide the Members of this House with full information.
I would ask that these things be investigated fully and that we should all be given full and honest information. &#160;&#160; I do not want to have a debate on this.
If we have the names, we must also take action against the persons concerned. &#160;&#160; You are absolutely right, Mr Karas.
She has produced many reports over the last 15 years on topics related to this.
I should like to thank her, on behalf of the House, for all the work she has done. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to propose an oral amendment to Amendment No 22 to include the words 'in addition to the North Sea and the Irish Sea'.
We are very pleased to welcome you here. &#160;&#160; We now continue with the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this report has been the subject of negotiations right up to the last minute, and I should therefore be grateful if you would take account of this proposal for an oral amendment which, in the form in which I shall read it to you, should perhaps facilitate the adoption of the report at first reading.
It was submitted to Parliament’s services yesterday, and it is also included in the voting list. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we approved an amendment by the Group of the Party of European Socialists outside of the text.
The Rules of Procedure are very clear: if 32 or more Members object to an oral amendment, then it cannot be accepted. (1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are going to vote on a resolution in paragraph 4 of which we state our support for and solidarity with the victims of terrorism and their families.
By a fatal and terrible coincidence, on the very day on which we are calling for a European Day to commemorate these victims, the murderous terrorist group ETA has caused the condemnable massacre of more than 138 people and hundreds of injured at various points in Madrid.
The events of 11&#160;September&#160;led to a universal political outcry across the world, and I feel it would be dangerous to today replace this date and track the current terrorist situation: this could be a rather unwise gesture.
This is the worst terrorist attack in the European Union to date.
Please let us vote on the amendment and let us not turn something which was a gesture into an absurd and out-of-place discussion. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as the author of this motion for a resolution I beg the House to be patient.
I believe that will meet all Members' concerns. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as Baroness Nicholson has announced that the first sentence is to be deleted, the Group of the Party of European Socialists wishes to withdraw Amendment No&#160;2. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would prefer to keep Amendment No&#160;13. &#160;&#160; Amendment No 2 has been withdrawn, but as we have just heard, Amendment No 13 stands. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, yesterday evening, we asked Parliament’s services to regard Amendment No 12, which the Group of the Party of European Socialists tabled in an attempt to bring about equal treatment, as an addition.
Paragraph 33 is poor.
Consequently, I would rather vote against paragraph 33 and vote on the amendment.
I am grateful to the Liberal Group and to the D66 delegation for the support they gave this oral amendment.
The game is not yet over, but I would like to denounce this anti-social, stupid and cowardly behaviour here before you.
I take it that you are not very happy. &#160;&#160; .– According to Article 23 of the Act of Accession, the European Union can make any amendments to the Act’s provisions on the common agricultural policy that may prove necessary as a result of changes in Community regulations.
In other words, the Treaties of Accession, ratified by the ten countries that are to join the European Union on 1 May 2004, may be amended in the agricultural sphere by decisions made by the Fifteen.
This is just one more … &#160;&#160; .– The Commission has proposed adaptations to the Acts of Accession of the 10 new Member States in order to take account of last year’s reforms of the common agricultural policy, particularly the introduction of the Single Farm Payment.
It is well known that the observer members are dissatisfied with the proposal because the farmers in their Member States will be given different treatment at first, with direct payments for certain products only being made gradually over 10 years.
Despite the observers’ dissatisfaction on a number of issues, however, the Commission’s proposal was accepted without amendment by the rapporteur, and his position was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
This decision also reflects the fact that the Council has already reached agreement on this matter.
I voted for it. &#160;&#160; .– I feel I have to support this report, which seeks approval for a proposal that is aimed at providing the Community with a valid instrument protecting the interests of a vital sector of the European economy, which is the provision of airline services.
The severe distortions of international competition in this sector, caused in part by the substantial subsidies given by several Member States to their own airlines, fully justify the Commission’s initiative to provide the Community with an instrument for reaction, based on the model that already exists in the private sector.
The measures proposed by the Commission, namely the adoption of legislative provisions that are binding on both Community and third-country air carriers, and the setting of minimum insurance requirements regarding liability towards passengers, baggage, merchandise, mail and third parties, will be enhanced by the rapporteur’s positive contribution. &#160;&#160; .– As I said in the vote at first reading, I welcome the Commission proposal and the rapporteur’s excellent work.
Electronic interchanges between national authorities and between these and the Community institutions are of vital importance at two levels.
However, the Commission programme on trans-European networks does not respond to the real need for development for the benefit of the workers and grass roots, to the need to improve their standard of living or to the need for easier communication between peoples.
Within this context, the implementation of Corridor 5 and the trans-‘Padania’ high-speed rail link is a response that is needed more than ever and that is very useful as regards the problem of congestion and inefficiency of public and private transport in the Veneto; this inefficiency must be blamed on the lack of interest that the Roman authorities have shown for years towards a balanced development of our region of Veneto and of the North-East in general.
The Berlusconi government, spurred on in this matter by the , has quite rightly taken steps in Europe in order to obtain the go-ahead and the necessary funding to implement Corridor 5, which will place ‘Padania’ at the centre of an economic and commercial route stretching from Lisbon to Ukraine; in particular it will be possible to encourage and develop foreign trade with the Eastern markets.
This work reveals great technical knowledge in its approach to a subject of vital importance: the development of a truly trans-European transport network in the context of enlargement.
I should, however, like to underline the following points: - the act of withdrawing the classification of projects of European interest should be a task for the Council and Parliament; - the need to accept the list of priority projects in Annex III without changes; - the importance of developing ‘motorways of the sea’, which are essential to eliminate gridlock in the trans-European transport network, and of achieving a real modal shift in this network. &#160;&#160; .– The question that is being raised, in Portugal as in other countries, concerns the integration and coherence of high-speed links with the remainder of the rail network, forming a coherent web of access for populations, ensuring connections with the regions of the country and other countries, and contributing to economic, social and territorial cohesion.
In this explanation of vote, I must insist on the absolute need for the projects and measures to be assessed in terms of the indispensable linkage between national policies and the trans-European networks. &#160;&#160; .– I supported this report on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network.
This regulation, which entered into force in January 2003, was adopted in the aftermath of the terrible events of 11 September 2001 and sought the adoption of heightened civil aviation security measures, especially at airports.
I support the rapporteur, who has worked hard to achieve a positive conclusion of this dossier at first reading in order to facilitate the coordination of social security schemes.
The current Commission proposal seeks essentially to update aspects of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 relating to special non-contributory cash benefits following a number of decisions by the Court of Justice.
In this context, we must emphasise the importance, in an extraordinarily technical field, of ensuring that the national laws of the Member States are complied with in the field of social protection, whilst bearing in mind that the ultimate aim of the desired coordination of these systems is to guarantee a dual dimension: social security and social assistance, throughout the territory of the European Union.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; This report returns to us, having been referred to a parliamentary committee, which shows how untimely the Commission’s proposal is.
Its adoption would have an impact, not only on these providers themselves, but also on consumers and would result, in particular, in higher prices for the services provided.
There are now, moreover, added disadvantages, in that those who post letters are going to have to pay yet another new tax, and so I was happy that a majority in the House shared my concern and rejected the report.
Lamentably, the state-owned French postal service has jeopardized the former good result by putting pressure on the French Left.
Tomorrow, my group, despite its sympathy for the special situation in one particular country, will stick with the original rejection that I advocated.
The report was referred back to the competent committee in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and it is this new report that was submitted to the vote today.
I am sure, moreover, that everything that promotes intelligence combats fundamentalism and, therefore, violence.
It is totally inappropriate for the European Union to engage in this form of cooperation with Israel while that state continues to blatantly ignore international law and abuse the human rights of the Palestinian people.
From the point of view of research policy, I agree with the rapporteur’s statement that ‘there is no reason why the agreement should not be extended’ and there are advantages to maintaining economic and political links with Israel, which would enable the European Union to play an effective role in the region.
Returning to the fundamental political issue, this constructive partnership could help to ease dialogue between the parties that are today in conflict or to open new dialogue between them, in the hope that Palestinian researchers and institutions will also be able to cooperate with Israeli and European institutions.
Panic has descended on Brussels because the objective which they set in Lisbon 4 years ago for the ΕU to become the most competitive economy in the world – for the benefit of its monopolies – is a very long way from being achieved.
The Council due to meet on 25 to 26 March is being called upon to take even more anti-grass roots measures, in order to make up the ground lost thanks to grass-roots reactions and demonstrations.
The current draft European Constitution is untimely, as I again explained yesterday in my statement attached to the debate on enlargement.
Furthermore, there has been a huge increase in negotiations in Council, with one proposal having been put forward, apparently by Germany, to unblock the lack of agreement over ‘who is the boss’ – is it just three countries or a few more?
The resolution continually asks the Council to adopt the Commission’s proposals more quickly.
The Council and the Commission must adopt practical measures, which are clearly indicated in the report, in various areas of the AFSJ.
Despite making some relevant and necessary criticism, the motion basically supports the European Union’s current policies in this field, examples of which include: extending the Schengen Information System, EUROPOL and EUROJUST, gradually ensuring the common management of external borders, a restrictive asylum policy, an immigration policy that criminalises immigrants and which promotes their repatriation, the use of biometric data, the arrest warrant and the European Union’s definition of terrorism.
This motion for a resolution even argues the case for the so-called ‘European Constitution’ and its use as a tool for achieving new and dangerous developments. &#160;&#160; Paragraph&#160;63 of the resolution on the progress made in 2003 in creating an area of freedom, security and justice takes issue with a sovereign decision by the French Parliament: the legislation it has adopted concerning respect for the principle of secularity in French public educational establishments.
This position constitutes inadmissible interference by the European Parliament in an area that is strictly a national competence.
The radical Members of the believe that the text adopted should have been much more critical of the Commission, the Council and the Member States, in particular, by condemning the unbalanced way in which the institutions that hold the power of initiative and decision-making power in such sectors have acted and are acting.
Indeed, the energy and timing with which these institutions have proposed and adopted measures aimed at strengthening the instruments for repressive measures in the areas of combating terrorism, cooperating in criminal matters, harmonising sanctions and combating illegal immigration, has not been matched by a strengthening of the rights of citizens, of the EU or otherwise.
By way of example, one need only refer to the fact the Commission has not yet adopted the announced framework decision on procedural safeguards.
There is not one single reference to the lack of political rights of the Russian minority in the Baltic states, to the persecutions and prohibitions of communist parties and their leaders and symbols, none of which, in the EU’s eyes, qualifies as an infringement of human rights, as their officials have repeatedly and provocatively stated.
We are certain that the Cypriot people will fight for a fair and viable solution. &#160;&#160; In the Swedish referendum on EU membership in 1994, all the political parties campaigning for Swedish membership of the EU asserted that marriage legislation and issues relating to cohabitation and abortion did not come within the decision-making competence of the EU.
All the parties promised to work for these issues remaining within strictly national areas of legislation, without interference by the EU.
We Moderates stand by this pledge to the Swedish electorate and believe that national legislation is much better than common EU legislation in this area.
The best adapted legislation is obtained if the various national parliaments within the EU devise the legislation themselves.
We Swedish Moderates share the Swedish view on the rights to abortion and homosexual partnerships but, out of respect for other EU countries, we have voted against the section of the Brok report demanding new legislation on abortion and partnerships in Poland. &#160;&#160; I abstained from voting on the Brok report, although I obviously support completely the enlargement of the European Union to include the ten Member States whose membership will become effective on 1 May 2004.
Paragraph&#160;63 states that the absence of an agreement on the reunification of Cyprus could constitute a ‘serious obstacle to Turkey’s European ambitions’.
The report exerts unrelenting pressure on the new countries to adopt the dangerous draft version of the so-called ‘European Constitution’ before 1&#160;May, and to ensure that these countries have fully implemented the Community .
Although last year’s decisions make enlargement a certainty, the Brok Report lists 148 areas of concern, and the addition of still more such areas is proposed in the form of amendments, some of them tabled by myself.
In reality, these countries have already given in to many unreasonable and unwise demands, which means that their problems can only get worse in the future.
I should, however, like to raise two points.
The first of these relates to Cyprus, a country that has still not been reunited.
It strikes me as essential, therefore, to put all our efforts into supporting negotiations towards a settlement between the Greek Cypriot side and the Turkish Cypriot side.
We do not want to go into detail for every country, but rather express our general opinion on the principle itself of this enlargement.
Indeed, the Members of the Hunting, Fishing, Nature and Traditions (CPNT) delegation in the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities have said on several occasions that it is against this enlargement, in particular, considering the lack of preparation, both on the part of these States and of the European Union.
This issue passionately splits opinion in Germany and is even tearing apart the Commission, if we are to believe the recent position of Commissioner Bolkestein against the entry of Turkey into the EU.
In any case, it is dangerous to state, as the Brok report does, echoing the Commission, that a lack of an agreement on Cyprus is an obstacle to Turkey entering the EU, because that implies conversely that such an agreement would give them an automatic right of entry.
This was in 1997 and 1998.
These efforts have now been acknowledged, and the rapporteur calls on the EU to strengthen its support, with the aim of preparing for accession at the earliest opportunity.
I completely endorse this view and the observation that Bulgaria fulfils the main criteria for accession to the EU.
Once its situation had been analysed, in line with the criteria laid down in Copenhagen, Romania was demoted to the second group.
Romania’s situation deserves special attention, and its route to accession appears to be a long one, with some difficult obstacles still to overcome.
The country has a large number of problems to solve, which it must do if negotiations are to be successful.
The distortion of competition brought about by the profusion of administrative burdens laid on European firms means that economic regions such as the US and China represent an economic threat to our jobs and prosperity.
In other words, nothing will be left standing in the name of the profit of big business and the multinationals.
The report sets out the tasks that must be carried out by the EU, or, to be precise, by the Member States on an individual basis.
The various areas of action encompass key questions in the pursuit of the most important aim, which has always been the continued development of the internal market.
I am therefore in favour of the Miller report. &#160;&#160; The Moderates believe that the organisation and content of health care and health services, as well as of care for the elderly, are national issues that should not be dealt with at supranational level.
The Member States are responsible for organising and funding health care systems, but cooperation must be enhanced by exchanging information, experience and best practice.
We endorse the application of the open method of coordination and a detailed timetable, but Member States must lay down common objectives and indicators by the time of the 2006 Spring European Council.
Member States must improve the quality of services and, by means of the Structural Funds, must invest in infrastructure and the training and development of professionals in these sectors.
In view of the ageing of the population, these problems will be exacerbated, and as a result there will be a marked rise in the number of diseases requiring intensive medical treatment and long-term medical care.
I believe that the creation of an integrated framework and tighter coordination in the field of social security is an important part of our progress towards achieving the social dimension and social protection incorporated in the Lisbon process.
We nonetheless believe that responsibility for health care and health services must remain as close to the user as possible.
I welcome the report’s support for cooperation in health care and long-term care systems, with Member States continuing to be responsible for organising and funding health care systems.
Important steps in this field were also taken in the Bastos report on reconciling working life, family life and privacy, on which we have voted during this part-session.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote(2). &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order under Rule 181 of the Rules of Procedure, I tabled a written declaration under Rule 51 calling for a boycott of Ferrero SpA.
I therefore request that the matter be referred to the committee responsible.
There is a long tradition of political campaigning through boycotts: Barclays over South Africa, Nestlé over breast milk substitutes and Shell over both Brent Spar and Kabinda.
Your comment will, of course, be taken into consideration and noted in the Minutes.(3) &#160;&#160; The next item is the Commission statement on Haiti.
This idea of respecting international law, including humanitarian legislation on human rights and refugees, is essential.
The Commission supports a peaceful and constitutional solution to the crisis and that is necessary in order to hold free and equitable elections in the future within a climate which makes them possible.
This initiative is based on the resolutions of the Organisation of American States and must contribute to a sustainable solution to the crisis.
The European Commission has granted financial assistance to the mission of the Organisation of American States in Haiti in the sum of EUR 1.25&#160;million.
His appointment is an important milestone in the initiative of CARICOM and should open the way to a constitutional solution to the current difficulties facing the country, provided that the necessary measures are adopted to break the cycle of violence and establish a climate of security in Haiti.
This team is receiving support and funding from our Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHO).
Finally, I would like to point out that the Commission is also working in cooperation with other international donors present in Haiti in order to coordinate development strategies and respond to the country's immediate needs, with a view to speeding up development aid as soon as the circumstances allow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 200 years ago, there was a slave revolt in San Domingo.
It has become a byword for state-sponsored violence and horror, with the Tonton Macoutes and the years of Papa Doc.
With Aristide came a beacon of hope, which was snuffed out by a military coup, reinstated, but then the country steadily lapsed into a regime of economic decline, human rights abuses, murderous militias and dubious electoral practices.
On a day when terror has struck on our own continent, in Spain, and our hearts are with the people of Spain, we need to find room in our hearts for the people of Haiti too and to lend them our support and help them to have justice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the profound structural crisis in Haiti calls for long-term involvement on the part of the international community.
In that way, we will be keeping hope alive among the rural population and we will not be wasting any more time. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I was totally taken aback when reading the draft resolution by this House on the situation in Haiti.
I was expecting France and the United States to be congratulated&#160;–&#160;especially France, as a European country&#160;–&#160;for having put an end to an insurrectionary crisis, which was visibly degenerating into a very serious civil war.
These friendly calls came to nothing, whereas France and the United States have at least achieved something.
France intends, in this way, to show that it is still aware of its historic commitments and the European Parliament should have been able to support this act of responsibility.
Instead, the proposed resolution seems to primarily deplore, without daring to say so clearly, the fact that a European country took an initiative without continually remaining in the ranks of those who issued friendly calls.
This is a negative attitude and altogether deplorable, which leads the draft resolution to surprising expressions.
I also see, in paragraph 11, that the European Parliament called for the multinational interim force, authorised by the United Nations Security Council, to be formed, not of French, US and Canadian military personnel, but of United Nations peace-keepers, as if the European Parliament’s one overpowering concern was to exclude from this force the countries that have a presence in the region, because they are the ones primarily interested.
To conclude, Mr&#160;President, I am disappointed that the draft resolution does not recognise that France acted out of duty and general interest, that it gave assistance to a population in danger&#160;–&#160;to avoid the worst&#160;–&#160;and that France defended the sovereignty of the Haitian people and that furthermore, France endeavoured to protect the legitimacy of a process of political restoration.
Firstly, the Council, in its statement of 1 March, clearly highlighted its support for the creation of a provisional multinational force to be deployed in Haiti, thereby supporting the Council of the United Nations.
Its low- and medium-frequency pulses can disturb cetaceans and there is also information to suggest that these sounds may impact on other types of fish and their behaviour.
European legislation – particularly the Habitats Directive – obliges EU Member States to take the necessary measures to establish a system of strict protection for all cetaceans present in European waters.
Nevertheless, in the absence of an exhaustive and authorised analysis taking up all the information available in relation to the effects of sonar, it is extremely difficult to adopt a clear position on it.
This issue was raised by the Commission at the meeting of the Habitats Committee on 20 November 2002 and the highly complex information subsequently obtained from the Member States and regional marine environment organisations in this regard must be considered together with additional scientific studies.
On 25 September 2003, the Commission asked a specialised and independent scientific body – the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, in Denmark – to produce a report and a scientific evaluation of all the relevant information regarding the effects of sonar on cetaceans and fish, to highlight the gaps in our current knowledge and to produce recommendations with regard to future research.
The Commission is also interested in hearing points of view on other possible measures which may reduce the effect of sonar on this type of marine animal.
Only on the basis of solid scientific information will it be possible to determine at Community level, in a coherent and cooperative manner, the measures necessary in order not to disturb cetaceans by means of sonar related activities, guaranteeing compliance with the provisions of our Habitats Directive.
Furthermore, the Commission is aware of the possible effects of military activities on the environment but it is not possible to take more Community measures to regulate the development of new military technologies owing to the lack of Union competences in this specific area. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to say how pleased I am that the debate on the low-frequency active sonar radar system continues in the European Parliament, although it makes slow progress.
In January last year my oral question to the Commission on the environmental impact of the LFAS radar system was discussed.
Commissioner Solbes Mira, you promised then that the Commission would send all the Member States a communication on the matter.
The Commission stated that action must be taken to look into the effects of LFAS.
Recently, Nature magazine published an article on the subject which made a reference to 14 whales that beached in the Canary Islands last year in September, all of which died.
The monitoring of territorial waters is a legitimate objective, but the harmful effects of the LFAS system does not seem justified.
Whale deaths have occurred in areas where the United States has tested the system.
In March 2000, in the Bahamas, 17 whales were beached and eight of them died at the same time as the navy’s radar system was being tested at sea.
The US navy stated in its report on the Bahamas case that the radar system had been the most likely cause of death.
In other words, from a scientific point of view the connection is proven.
Because the reason why the United States are developing this new low-frequency sonar is in order to detect silent submarines which only they manufacture.
I believe that the Commissioner has replied correctly, but, in view of the scientific studies we already have and the existence of that European Parliament Resolution of 1999 – which the Commissioner knows about since he knows the waters I am talking about very well – I believe the time has come for the Commission to consider the possibility of taking initiatives which, within the context of maintaining the Commission’s competences, allow the Community institutions to deal with this issue.
I therefore hope that this first Commission statement will mark the start of a new Community policy and that, at least during the next legislature, this Parliament will receive some indication from the Commission about the direction we are taking.
We now have to begin to recommend concrete measures, calling on the States, at least within the framework of intergovernmental cooperation, to take account of these conclusions in order to contribute to maintaining our already suffering marine fauna. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the use of low-frequency sonar, I will first of all raise three questions and then, in conclusion, I will make a suggestion.
Firstly, as the two Members who spoke before me mentioned, this question has been discussed here, in this House, on several occasions and we have already been told, in particular by Commissioner Solbes Mira, that we needed more information.
Like the rest of this House, I am also concerned about measures which might stifle open and free debate in Ukraine.
Ukraine is now at a crossroads between a western-style democratic future with EU aspirations, which we in the European Parliament support in principle, and reverting to a semi-democratic authoritarian type of system.
Of course, this social, political and economic divide between the two poles of the same Europe means that the European Union must, within the context of its enlargement, activate its measures, means and initiatives, and its mutual assistance based on solidarity.
Instead of today calling for the Tacis programmes in Ukraine to be stepped up, in order to economically restore some sort of stability with this neighbour, why did we not make our solidarity, our programmes and our budgets more open to them after 1991?
The situation reflects this.
This station had evidently incurred the displeasure of the Ukrainian powers-that-be by transmitting programmes from Radio Liberty.
It was Radio Continent, too, that employed the journalist Georgi Gongadze, who went missing in the year 2000 and was later found decapitated.
I hope that Washington and Brussels will indeed close ranks, as Albright puts it, in order to defend freedom’s borders and set them wider. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I wish to say that we recognise the importance of Ukraine as a country with historical, cultural and economic ties to the EU and with long-term aspirations of membership of the European Union.
However, a genuine partnership can only develop on the basis of shared common values, in particular democracy, the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights.
At the moment, those conditions are not being met in Ukraine and the situation is deteriorating.
Freedom of expression – as some of my colleagues have mentioned in more detail – is coming under increasing threat and there have been a number of serious violations of the rights of the independent media and journalists.
We call on the government of Ukraine to respect freedom of expression and to undertake sustained and effective measures to prevent and punish interventions against free and independent media.
We ask the Ukrainian authorities to make a formal commitment to hold October's forthcoming presidential elections in conditions of the greatest possible transparency, and hope that the European Commission will consider, along with Parliament and other bodies, whether we should send an election observation mission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Ukraine is without doubt a European country – one of the largest – and we must not forget how this European country was for decades oppressed and plundered as a Soviet colony.
We in this House have, over recent years, done a great deal to support Ukraine, and even before the great changes between 1989 and 1991 there were elements in Western Europe who cooperated with it.
I am thinking here of the Ukrainian university in exile in my electoral district in Munich, or of Radio Liberty, which used to broadcast from Munich, which was perhaps something of a free Ukrainian metropolis.
That has always given us a great deal of sympathy and understanding for the Ukrainian people in their aspiration towards a life of their own.
While we must, in principle, be sympathetic towards the Ukrainian people as an important European partner, we must speak out strongly against, and take firm action against, all those who, in whatever way, seek to whittle away and destroy the democracy that is coming into being in their country. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Solbes Mira, ladies and gentlemen, in 2002, I travelled at Easter to Ukraine as one of the European Parliament’s election observers.
At the same time, I wish to call attention to the fact that Ukraine is a very old nation.
The deaths of the journalists Georgi Gongadze and Jurij Tjetjiks have in actual fact still not been explained.
Every year, the fourth Sunday in November is a day for commemorating this genocide and this mass starvation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I think it is important that in any policy relating to a larger Europe and partnership that we remember the importance of Ukraine as a country that certainly has historical, cultural and also economic ties to Europe.
Ukraine really still has much to do in these areas.
For example, freedom of speech and the independent media are continually under threat in Ukraine and the rule of law does not function in any satisfactory way.
The EU must encourage Ukraine to strive for better government and democracy.
This is reflected in our common strategy agreed in 1999 and our cooperation within the framework of the Association and Cooperation Agreement.
The European Commission therefore appreciates the attention being paid today to the debate on the process of political and constitutional reform under way in Ukraine and particularly the freedom of the press.
These are the issues we must continue to deal with within our current debates.
I would also like to make a few comments and point out the importance of the issues within the context of the coming elections in October.
Naturally, it is Ukraine which must choose its own form of government and its Constitution, in accordance with European democratic standards, but the circumstances and the way in which the debate on this reform is being carried out continue to cause concern.
At the same time, we were pleased to see that the Ukraine parliament, at the beginning of February, adopted proposals for constitutional reform initially intended to take account of the criticisms made by the national opposition and the critical comments of the Council of Europe and the Union.
The recent judicial decision to close an opposition newspaper and a radio station have raised new serious questions.
However, as is customary, we intend to carry out coordination and cooperation work with the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE, which is preparing a long-term observation mission.
Within this context, we are right now producing and applying several specific projects to assist and cooperate with Ukraine in order to make progress on institutional aspects. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
This solution was enshrined in an agreement between representatives of the government and of the Democratic Coordinator by means of a recall referendum, which is the constitutional mechanism laid down in Venezuela’s Magna Carta, which allows the popular support for the President of the Republic to be revalidated.
The recent decision of the National Electoral Council not to validate a significant number of signatures collected in order to call the referendum does not, in our opinion, respect either the spirit or the letter of those agreements and has been the catalyst for the recent events in that country.
It must call on the government to guarantee the rights of all citizens, including the right to peaceful demonstration.
It calls on the National Electoral Council to accept and adopt without delay the recommendations of the mission of the Carter Centre and of the mission of the Organisation of American States.
It reiterates its support for the agreements reached between the government and the Democratic Coordinator.
Mr President, it is also necessary to call for a redoubling of the European Union's efforts, with the aim of ensuring that these agreements between the government and the Democratic Coordinator are complied with.
The motion for a resolution is in line with the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council of last February, which urged compliance with the agreements between the government and the opposition.
Nobody obliged the government to reach an agreement with the opposition on 29 May 2003, but it was reached.
At the moment, in line with the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and in view of events, Parliament, which has expressed its opinion on Venezuela on other occasions, wishes to point out that constitutional rights can be infringed by violation of essential procedural requirements and we believe that in this case there is a violation of essential procedural requirements, since by alleging that there were certain ‘coincidences’ in handwriting, hundreds of thousands of signatures have been annulled.
We are currently facing a decision by the National Electoral Council, supported by the government, which is intended to deprive Venezuelan citizens of a constitutional right recognised in the Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
We are appealing for calm.
At the moment, it is clear that the Carter Centre for Democracy and the Organisation of American States are negotiating with the Venezuelan Government and with the opposition with a view to seeking a way out of the conflict and we hope that the Commission, as always, will cooperate with Parliament and the Council in the task of reassuring the Venezuelan population and making it possible to put the Venezuelan constitutional process back onto a democratic electoral course. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Europe formerly knew of Venezuela only as a supplier of crude oil and iron ore and as a base for European adventurers.
The hospital where my father died was filthy and chaotic.
In other parts of the country, in the second city, Maracaibo, for example, I saw Indians, impoverished and shunned by everyone.
Things can and must get better in Venezuela, but going back to the way things were will not help matters at all.
The European Union’s support for the new Venezuela is the best way to prevent provocative and violent acts on the part of both the government and the political opposition, but unwarranted nostalgia leads only to disaster. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make clear on behalf of the PSE Group that we will be opposing all of the amendments by the GUE/NGL Group and the Verts/ALE Group.
Nevertheless we find less than credible the much delayed decision by the Venezuelan National Electoral Council to reject 1.2 million out of 3 million signatures on the recall referendum; two in five signatures have actually been declared invalid.
We endorse the Irish presidency's statements of 23 February and 2 March, and ask the Commission to use its considerable political weight in that country to ensure that the agreements made on the basis of democratic coordination are actually kept. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the people of Venezuela took the country into their own hands and elected Mr Chavez as president.
The serious political crisis in Venezuela and its serious economic consequences are a cause of concern to the Commission, which is closely following how events develop.
The political stability of Venezuela is essential not only to the development of this country but also to the security of the Andean region and the whole of Latin America.
Venezuela needs international support in order to achieve a peaceful and democratic solution to the internal conflict without this having to mean interference in the country's internal affairs.
The Commission therefore welcomed the beginning of dialogue between the government and the opposition and supported the facilitation of this dialogue by the tripartite group consisting of the Organisation of American States, the Carter Centre and the United Nations Development Programme.
We also supported the signature of the Declaration against Violence and for Peace and Democracy in Venezuela, in February 2003, and the agreement of 29&#160;May of that same year.
This agreement offered opportunities for achieving a peaceful, democratic, constitutional and electoral solution as advocated both by the Organisation of American States in its Permanent Council Resolution 833, and by the European Union, an idea which we continue to support.
The Commission shares the concern expressed by the Organisation of American States and the Carter Centre in its declaration of 2 March last and is fearful of the possible consequences of the decision of the National Electoral Council to subject 876 000 signatures for the presidential referendum considered doubtful to validation.
Nevertheless, we would urge the opposition to submit to this process of validation and the government and the National Electoral Council to guarantee the defence of the popular will in such a way that it can be expressed by means of an electoral process.
The Union has published several statements on the need to seek a peaceful, democratic, constitutional and electoral solution and we have also given the Organisation of American States economic support in its efforts to apply the May agreement and we are prepared, if necessary, to examine how the support can be increased if that organisation requests it.
Furthermore, in response to certain questions put, if the National Electoral Council decides to hold the referendum and the Venezuelan authorities invite the European Union, the Commission would be prepared to send an exploratory mission of electoral observers if it is advisable, useful and feasible. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
This is tantamount to unacceptable meddling and pressure on the Venezuelan National Electoral Council.
The democratic and patriotic process is enshrined in the Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, which was adopted in a referendum with the broad support of the people.
In recent years, this process has sought to address the deep-rooted causes of inequality in Venezuela, and has responded to the most pressing needs of the overwhelming majority of the population.
What Venezuela needs is support and solidarity with this process.
The great majority of Burmese people are working in the informal sector, while the military establishment and its associates mainly own the formal economy.
International diplomatic efforts should be resolutely pursued, but the EU must confront Burma's military regime through effective and fully implemented sanctions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group, we realise that EU targeted sanctions against the Burmese military regime – the State Peace and Development Council – require review and renewal before 29 April 2004.
We call for Aung San Suu Kyi and all those detained or put under house arrest to be immediately and unconditionally released, along with all other political prisoners, and for the NLD offices closed in May 2003 to be reopened.
We equally insist that Burma should not attend the ASEM meeting scheduled for April 2004 in the Republic of Ireland, and that the presidency should refuse to issue the relevant visas. &#160;&#160; Mr President, speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group and the British Conservatives, the Burmese military regime, which euphemistically calls itself the 'state peace and development council', is a narco-dictatorship financed by heroin that brutally exploits and terrorises its own people.
There are 1 350 political prisoners still in jail in Burma, subjected to inhumane conditions, while the country's political hope – Aung San Suu Kyi – lingers under house arrest.
The common position will be reviewed in 2004, but the Council should also ensure that the situation in Burma is reassessed in June 2004.
If these meaningful steps, such as the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other detained members of the National League for Democracy Party, as well as tripartite dialogue between the NLD ethnic minority leaders and Burma's authorities, have not taken place, sanctions should be implemented with immediate effect.
A new peak in violence and repression affecting the suppressed and suffering population of Burma puts this country back on our agenda.
The schedule is in our favour and the tools of repression against the oppressors are within our reach: to not make use of them would be failure to assist a person in danger.
By next month, 29&#160;April 2004, the European Union common position must be revised.
The Council’s working group for Asia has recently assessed the effectiveness of the measures and has reviewed the different options available to the European Union in order to respond to the current situation.
The Council’s groups are currently debating the renewal of the Common Position on Burma and it should issue its opinion before 29 April.
The Commission therefore intends to continue providing the population with humanitarian aid and even to increase it.
At the moment the humanitarian aid we send to the area, to the country and to the refugees in the neighbouring countries, amounts to EUR 10 million per year.
On 15 December, the Forum for international support for national reconciliation in Burma was held.
It is essential to support the work of Ismael Razali, special envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, which should facilitate the debate between the State Council for Peace and Development and the other political agents.
The Commission is pleased about the visit by Razali, scheduled for the beginning of March, which represents a final attempt to move forward the reconciliation process between the military government and the opposition, headed by Aung San Suu Kyi.
Nevertheless, we must be very careful, since the effects of those sanctions on trade and investment must be evaluated in terms of their impact on the poorest sectors of the population.
We must therefore seek a suitable balance between the need to respond rapidly to changes in the political situation and any reaction, which must be proportionate to the situation on the ground and cause as little harm as possible to the least-favoured sectors of the Burmese population. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
