Mr Atkins, the services tell me that the delay was only for this week.
They thought the translations could be made available in spite of this fairly difficult and densely packed timetable.
Nonetheless, I have no doubt that this Chamber will have been able to examine each of the amendments in detail and I think it is possible to have the debate on this report.
In any case, all the translations will be available to MEPs between now and the time of the vote.
I do not think it is usual for the discussion preceding a vote to be a discussion of amendments.
The Commission proposed that the monopoly service be restricted to letters weighing 50 grammes or less.
At the committee stage, we agreed on a compromise, namely letters up to a weight of 150 grammes.
The Commission proposed the full liberalisation of cross-border mail.
We decided in committee to leave the question of special services as it is regulated in Directive 97/67/EC.
Madam President, the opinion of the committee of which I have the honour to be draftsman, which was approved by a very large majority, introduces limitations to the rapid liberalisation of the postal services, opting for a gradual and controlled opening to competition without market distortions which would be detrimental to the services' customers and users and to the national universal service companies.
Naturally, we point out weaknesses in the draft directive, requiring that the economic and social impact of liberalisation be made known and an assessment be made of the economic effectiveness and service quality provided by the companies so that Parliament can decide with certainty and clarity.
Without jeopardising the modernisation of all postal services and the opening to competition, Member States must continue to preserve their rural network of counter services, which help bring the remote places closer to centres of decision making and are thus indispensable to the social cohesion of the smallest urban or rural communities.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has been even more demanding as regards price limits on services reserved for the universal provider, but it proposes the same 150-gramme weight limit and jointly rejects the 50 grammes laid down in the draft directive.
It is also guaranteed that cross-border mail will remain a service reserved for the postal services, and also, if VAT comes to be levied on postal services, that the tax should be levied at a reduced rate so as not to raise the price of stamps in the Community.
My committee has clearly rejected the idea of special services, which, as I understand it, were aimed at draining the universal service of any profitable activities, leaving it only with services where costs outweighed prices, and it also made subject to liberalisation the so-called new services, defined as "all those that the universal service provider does not undertake or is not naturally obliged to produce" .
Madam President, there would be much more to say, but I shall confine myself to adding that only rarely has there been such political consensus on an issue among the various committees called upon to express their opinions in this Parliament.
It is also a public service which has a notable territorial aspect to it.
For all these reasons, the postal services which are now to be opened to competition and which are to a very large extent already in competition where very many products are concerned and which are themselves subject to competition from new technologies and are faced with new consumer expectations, as we are agreed, cannot be treated as a mere market.
What might be acceptable for the Netherlands or Malta, that is to say a reserved sector reduced to 50 grammes, may not be practicable where Greece or France is concerned because of the geography of these countries.
Finally, the universal service should be in a position to develop.
The Commission ought to have provided us with an impact study of the various phases of liberalisation.
Madam President, I welcome the fact that in committee we managed to achieve a balanced compromise on this issue and I hope that Parliament will adopt that position in substance tomorrow.
But, in particular, I urge the Member States in Council to consider their position; and I am quite concerned that despite the fact that Members of the governing party in Ireland are supporting the compromise position here in Parliament, the Irish Government is not supporting that position.
Competition in the postal sector, as it has done elsewhere, will ensure that we have a more effective and an affordable service for consumers.
However, my group also takes the view that we as a Community and as Member States must naturally ensure that conditions are created for the provision of a universal service too.
The fact is that, in order to make a universal service possible, we are reserving a domain in which monopolies can operate.
But this exclusion must only apply to postal services and not to advisory services, social services or anything else.
Yes, we do want to guarantee a universal service, and, in order to do so, we must exclude competition from a certain area of the postal services.
I believe the compromise ceiling of 150 grammes that we have proposed, along with the application of the other criteria, constitute suitable next steps.
The previous directive of 1997 called for: "a gradual and controlled liberalisation".
What it came up with was, in the words of Neil Armstrong, the famous American astronaut: "one giant leap for mankind" in that they moved from 350 grammes to 50 grammes in one fell swoop.
The reason why we never saw those studies was because the social effects mentioned in them - the effects on postal services - were simply not to the liking of the Commission.
A reduction of the universal service - the very core of the postal service sector - to 50 grammes would seriously put at risk the ability of the national postal operators to deliver a universal service at an affordable tariff to people, irrespective of where they live.
In other words, what the Commission is proposing, supported by some in this House, will in my own country lead to a reduction in service levels, in particular in rural areas.
I am sorry, Mr Ferber, I am concerned about job losses and the effect they will have.
We often pontificate here about being the representatives of the citizens of Europe.
Well, if my mail bag is anything to go by, the citizens of Europe do not want to see their postal services decimated.
Today we have a report before us that is an excellent response to the Commission's proposals.
It is a response that is not only measured, but also guaranteed to improve our services for consumers, irrespective of where they live.
If you go down the road of the Commission or some in this House, then you will decimate those postal services and we will be slated by the people for that action, and rightly so.
Quite the reverse, in fact: I intend to make them more effective, and Mr Ferber' s report is not a sound proposal in my opinion.
However, we know that guaranteeing equal high-quality access to everyone everywhere requires tariff equalisation to be maintained and a certain number of services to be kept for those providing a universal service.
It would be more in keeping with citizens' expectations to restore the balance where public services are concerned by making any new extension to the commercial sphere conditional upon respect for the fundamental objective of the sustainable development of European society.
Madam President, I should like to make three remarks.
Firstly, the Commission' s new postal directive envisaged, in fact, the almost total liberalisation of postal services.
By putting operators in competition with each other in the most profitable areas, it would lead to the closure of a large number of post offices, job losses and insecure jobs and would result in social dumping.
Firstly, to continue the process of creating a large, liberalised European market while stating that liberalisation of this kind would create jobs.
However, if liberalisation had been such a great success, then why, in spite of the repeated requests by Parliament, has the Commission still not carried out a public critical assessment of the consequences of the first phase of the liberalisation of the sector in 1997, not only in terms of employment, but also in terms of postal rates and the number of post offices remaining throughout Europe?
The fact is, across the range of very different approaches, the proposals made have been deemed inadmissible by a majority of players in the postal services field and also by a great many parliamentarians.
I am very pleased about that, because this notion of special services was in any case intended to exclude new technologies from the scope of universal service.
Finally, my third and last remark: although these initiatives are worth emphasising and represent serious resistance to the initial project, we ought not to deceive ourselves that we are not embarking upon a new phase in the liberalisation of the postal sector.
However, Parliament also needs to work on determining what is required of a high quality universal service relevant to the demands of the new century within the European Union.
Social and economic development is leading to an explosion in the need for information.
It is not, however, possible to enable everyone to access these modes of transmission in the framework of unfettered competition.
Madam President, I hope that the broader membership of the European Parliament will accept the recommendations of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism concerning the future administration of postal services within the European Union.
However, we must recognise that unfettered competition in the area of postal services would result in a severe reduction in the quality of these services in rural and peripheral parts of the European Union.
Therefore, it is recommended that universal postal providers within the Union will be able to deliver all postal items below 150 grammes in weight.
Private operators will also be able to deliver letters at four times the price of a normal letter.
We should be clear on one specific matter when we are discussing this new directive.
They will ensure the economic viability of the rural post office network in my country and in other rural and peripheral parts of the European Union.
If there is unfettered competition in providing postal services in Europe, then lucrative urban areas will be cherry-picked by private operators at the expense of the poorer and less profitable rural parts.
That is why I urge all Members to support the amendments tabled by the Transport Committee of this Parliament with regard to the future administration and workings of postal services in Europe.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my satisfaction at the fact that this debate is being held today instead of during the January part-session, although this is the result of a minor tussle between the groups.
In fact, it provides for minimal subsequent opening-up of the market and provides absolutely no certainty regarding future steps while, as far as the universal service is concerned, the Swedish example should reassure all those who feel that privatisation will mean the end of the postal services.
We must remember that the postal services and, in general, logistics must in the coming years be one of the fundamental bases for the development of the new economy and that, if we adopt defensive tactics to protect the status quo, defending the major interests of monopolies and unions, then thousands of jobs will be threatened.
This is certainly the case within the postal sector.
Experience in Sweden and the Netherlands, among others, has taught us that the objections to a free postal market are unfounded.
Madam President, the Postal Services Directive of 1997 provided for a gradual and controlled opening of postal markets to private providers.
But this Parliament and the European Union also have some responsibility for employment and for the social conditions in which the postal services operate.
Let me say this to Georg and Markus: when the postman calls once, or even twice, we are well aware that this is not the ultimate social service in Europe.
In the UK, many areas are fortunate enough to enjoy a much higher level of universal service provision than the current directive requires, but aspects of our services are already under threat, particularly post offices in rural areas.
No one has yet succeeded in reassuring me about the effects of the Commission proposal in both these respects, which is why I am not only supporting the 150-gramme compromise but asking for a thorough review or reviews on the effects for universal service provision before any other proposal or proposals come forward.
If, as has been reported, the EU is prepared to consider sport in a special way, should we not also consider postal services in a special way?
In the Dutch newspapers, Mr Bolkestein recently criticised the French for adopting a non-liberal attitude, or, at least, that is how the headline in one of the newspapers read.
Our responsibility for our national economies also obliges us to maintain a high level of employment.
The rapporteur is right, therefore, when he states that the compromise reached is the only compromise possible.
According to my Spanish colleagues - and I would like to check this out with the Commissioner - Spain has transposed the 1997 Directive in its entirety, others have not done anything, and those who have not done anything would now like to take huge steps to make up the difference.
Mr Bolkestein, the Commission is the Guardian of the Treaties.
The misinformation has been about people in favour of liberalisation.
Quite the reverse in fact: the concept of universal services is ideally suited to solve problems encountered in rural areas and areas which are difficult to access, via agreements and, if need be, compensatory funding.
Fortunately, there is a directive in place which prescribes transparency for public companies, and I can assure you that gross subsidies will be monitored at very close range.
Crucial issues such as the 150-gramme limit rather than the derisory 50 grammes proposed by the Commission, a price four times the basic standard tariff, rather than the two and a half times proposed by the Commission and the express service are handled much more realistically in the report, as are cross-border postal services.
The rapid technical development and the requirements placed on postal companies to adapt their activities quickly make an end-date for the abolition of the monopoly necessary - as early a date as possible.
Madam President, the Swedish postal service was completely liberalised as early as 1993.
The Swedish Post still has 95 per cent of the market share in Sweden.
for the market to be competitive.
The costs are not higher than in other countries.
Consumers will lose out, employees will lose out, Europe will lose competitive strength and growth.
Let us therefore regard this important phase of examining this directive as a manifestation of the agreement and the bond between Parliament and the citizens of Europe.
We have been able to find a majority of MEPs to respond to the questions and challenges it raises, as well as the fundamental risks it poses for the images of our various countries, the identity of our public services and the cohesion of our societies.
I am all the more grateful due to the fact that my own group has distinguished itself in this counter-offensive.
We had joined together in firmly denouncing these liberal excesses and their harmful effects on the territorial, economic and human fabric of our Member States.
As a Frenchwoman, I am only glad that I have no part in the dismantling of that reassuring and life-affirming network of 17 000 post offices and sub-post offices, knitted together over 550 000 km2 of our territory and embodying public service for our citizens, in both suburban and rural areas.
This debate on postal services is also a warning to the Commission.
Account ought also to be taken of indicators to the contrary, such as the liberalisation of postal services in Sweden, and of subsidiary aspects such as the quality of post office jobs and the symbolic value of the post office.
If this is the case, then not only banks, chemical companies and steel companies must be privatised, but also public utility companies such as the energy supply, public transport and the postal services.
On the one hand, the proposal aims to create a great deal more space for competing private companies, without waiting for the promised evaluation of the effects previous liberalisation decisions have had.
This is why it is positive that a majority of this House now refuses to take matters as far as Commissioner Bolkestein proposed at the beginning of this year.
This has my support, but it would also be preferable if mail between 150 and 350 grammes remained in the hands of the existing postal companies.
Madam President, the postal services in all of our Member States fulfil functions way beyond what is purely market activity.
Postal services are of immense socio-economic importance and have always played a key role in social cohesion.
The current proposals have been the subject of very emotional debate right across the Union, particularly in my own rural constituency, and rightly so.
The Commission's proposal to liberalise the postal services has been discussed intensively across the length and breadth of my constituency from Malin Head to Connemara and from the outskirts of Dublin to the islands.
I want to commend the rapporteur on a very fine report: a report that reflects the views of the vast majority of the Members of this House and, indeed, of practically all citizens of Europe.
We all agree on the fact that we need a high quality service with the lowest possible tariffs for the consumer.
If we think that we can put liberalisation forward as the solution to all the problems, then we are wrong, also because it would be a mistake in this sector not to recognise the need, which exists and which cannot be denied, for a universal service and for the guarantee that running the services will also provide the necessary means to cover the additional costs of the universal service.
This will mean removing the definition of special services which, paradoxically, would prevent the operator of the reserved area from upgrading its services.
Madam President, we are holding a real parliamentary debate because the positions were initially differing.
Madam President, the service we are considering faces fierce competition from the new information and communication technologies.
That competition cannot be considered in current terms, because the use of those technologies is undergoing a dramatic increase and we therefore have to view the issue with a little perspective.
This sector is already suffering from enormous competition from those new technologies.
We have included the special services in the directive itself, and I believe that Parliament has given them the added value that they must have because, otherwise, the Commission' s proposal could become a back door through which the services of general interest could be attacked.
Madam President, in dealing with this issue we are talking about economic and social cohesion.
It is very important to understand that it is not only the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds that have the task of defending economic and social cohesion; it is all the Union' s policies, as laid down in Article 158 of the EC Treaty.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties of finding a compromise have already been mentioned during the course of this debate.
It appears that the final solution is acceptable because it reconciles the need for competition with liberalisation and, most importantly, with the obligation for a universal service, and we know that there will be subsequent stages which will make it possible to assess the situation.
Madam President, Arlette Laguiller and I reject any way in which private capital might be introduced into postal services.
The effects of the first directive have not been made public, for the consequences are obvious: job losses and poorer working conditions, public services of varying quality throughout Europe, especially in rural areas and working class districts.
Now, a self-styled 'soft' version of the Commission' s liberalising proposal is offered to us, particularly in connection with the price-weight threshold of 150 instead of 350 grammes.
The gradual, controlled liberalisation presented by the French Presidency as a lesser evil is a hypocritical way of handing an essential public service over to a market which is neither controlled nor controllable, as has already been done in the case of France-Télécom.
Commissioner, please allow me to say that you know perfectly well, because the studies that you have at your disposal show that, for example, in Spain 44% of the postal service is liberalised.
And the proposal you are making in fact moves towards liberalisation.
It benefits those companies and those countries which so far have done absolutely nothing.
Therefore, those that have worked within the framework of the 1997 Directive are being penalised and those that have done the opposite are benefiting, and that is not a liberalised market or a process of homogenisation.
We have to seek equality of opportunity; we have to seek a legal framework and a liberalising framework, within which we all have fair and balanced opportunities.
The Commission proposal provides for gradual further opening and will, in my opinion, surely lead to better services for the consumer at a more competitive price.
I, with many others this morning, continue to be in favour of restricting the reserved area down to 50 grammes.
I welcome a review in 2003, but it must lead to the next step: complete liberalisation by 2007.
The Commission proposal accommodates these requirements, but the rapporteur' s compromise proposal does not, which is why I reject it.
It is iniquitous that the Royal Mail in Britain is using taxpayers' money to intervene in continental liberalised markets whilst at the same time fighting to prevent that liberalisation in the United Kingdom.
We have, alongside this, an absolute commitment to the universal service obligation.
Mr President, first of all, we do not want to force Sweden to change its postal system, but please do not force us to follow its example.
Prices for posting a letter in Sweden are 30% higher than they are in the United Kingdom.
All of them are backing Mr Simpson and opposing your party's views on this matter.
Commissioner Bolkestein's proposals were regrettably a bridge too far.
I certainly recognise that there is nothing wrong with the concept of liberalisation per se and that it can bring benefits to consumers.
However, it also brings certain obligations - particularly the need to guarantee universality of services.
In exposing somewhere between 46 and 48% of the revenue of An Post to competition, it would have created serious doubts for the long-term viability of the Irish postal service as we know it.
The cherry-picking that would have ensued would have jeopardised the ability of An Post to deliver daily and universally at reasonable cost.
I therefore welcome the amended report that has emerged from the committee.
Let me say this to An Post: if this happens, you will have been given a valuable breathing space.
There are many possibilities apart from the one-stop shop where all government services are available to the local community, such as e-commerce and the Internet.
Mr President, the European Commission' s proposal amending the 1997 Directive on opening up the Community' s postal services to competition was justified and expected.
It was justified because it is in keeping with the logic of the founding Treaties of the European Union which prioritise the establishment of the internal market through the free movement of goods and services in a competitive environment.
Justified too, since 1990, by the positions successively adopted by the European Councils devoted to this sector.
However, the European Commission' s and Commissioner Bolkestein' s proposals have unleashed quite a commotion.
There are some amendments, in particular those which emphasise the importance of the universal service and of the rural post offices, which I can support.
Universal service is the cornerstone of Community policy in this area and everything we do is designed to create a proper climate for its improvement.
The Commission proposed a step-by-step approach, with a further stage of market opening of 20% overall to be taken in the year 2003.
Firstly, no 50 grammes, which goes against the need to create actual competition.
Secondly, no opening of outgoing cross-border mail although this is already a reality in ten Member States.
The debate about modernising the postal sector started in 1989 during a Telecom Council at Antibes.
Look where we are now, more than ten years later.
Shifting the next step from 2003 to 2005 would be another delay that, I am afraid, is not acceptable to the Commission.
The degree of market opening as now proposed by Parliament would reduce the 20% of the Commission proposals to only 6% from the start of the year 2005, without any prospect of completion of the internal market in the postal sector and that, I am afraid, does not comply with the conclusions of the European Council, nor would it meet the needs and expectations of postal clients, both business users and individual households.
Special services are another very important area where innovation and modernisation must be encouraged.
New and distinct services are always outside the reservable area but there is no clear definition of special services in the current directive, and that opens the door to endless debate and market uncertainty.
I know that modernising the postal services sector is difficult and politically sensitive.
The post office is close to people, to consumers and to employees alike.
If we do too little, too late, the postal sector as a whole will be in danger.
I am sure that many of you, and in particular the rapporteur, will agree more than politics perhaps allows you to say.
May I quote three actors in this field.
He said that between now and the end of the decade the opening to competition of virtually the whole postal market appears to be inevitable.
Thirdly, French Senator, Gérard Larcher, who is a well-known expert in the field of postal services, called upon all parties to look forward.
The postal service is increasingly having to compete in the wider communications market with modern technology developed by the Internet, mobile telephones and the integration of different means of communication.
May I point to the main European consumer organisations, such as the BEUC, which have welcomed the Commission's proposal.
Our proposal strikes a careful balance, because universal service providers will need time to change the structures further, to become more flexible enterprises so they can adapt to new market conditions.
Only the introduction of real competition in a controlled and progressive way, according to a fixed timetable, will assist them to do this.
If the European legislator fails, those Member States progressing rapidly down the road indicated by the Lisbon Summit will be penalised, as their postal operators will be subject to competition from operators benefiting from an extended monopoly.
The Commission proposal responds to this requirement in a very reasonable and a gradual way.
It recognises that under the existing directive there was already a shift in the balance between the reserved area and other means to ensure a high-quality and enduring universal service.
These include licensing requirements, including universal service obligations for new entrants to the market, a compensation fund and setting tariffs at an appropriate level geared to costs.
However, without competition, the situation would become unbalanced.
In this spirit, I can accept those of your amendments which are non-contentious and others which rightly give emphasis to issues such as universal service as applied in Member States, redressing complaints, and the rural network.
These concern Amendments Nos 2, 3, 6, 7, 24, 28, 29, 32, 39, 40 and 41.
I can also accept the new amendments tabled yesterday, namely 46, first paragraph, 58 and 59, which clarify certain important points.
Regarding Amendments Nos 60 and 61, I can agree with the principle of completing the internal market at a future date to be determined within a reasonable time frame.
However, it will not surprise Members of this Parliament that the Commission cannot accept the remaining proposed amendments.
If the European Union, of which the Members of this Parliament are the elected representatives, wants to have the most competitive, knowledge-based and dynamic economy in ten years time, it needs a modern postal sector.
Mr President, I wish to reject these indiscriminate attacks against the majority of this House.
The Commission will put forward the same opinion and therefore the Council will act on the Commission's proposal as it sees fit.
Thirdly and lastly, if Heads of State or Government decided in Lisbon that the European Union should be the most competitive place in the world in ten years' time, then we have to act upon that.
I take the conclusions expressed by the Heads of State or Government as being the guidelines for the Commission and I have spoken this morning in the spirit of those conclusions.
I call upon Members of this Parliament to follow the Commission's proposal, because only that proposal leads to the aim of Lisbon, which is to have the most competitive, dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world in ten years' time.
I notice that the postal services are helping us to warm up the House a little, and I am glad about that.
Mr Simpson, do you wish to take the floor or do you wish to give up that right?
Thank you very much, Mr Simpson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
Last April, after having voted through a very large majority of the amendments I was proposing to the Commission' s text but faced with the latter' s refusal to accept any of these, we decided to refer the matter to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development with a view to finding a possible compromise.
I would therefore remind you that, in November 1999, the Commission made its umpteenth proposal for modifying the COM in bananas, mainly with regard to external aspects and with a view to ensuring that this COM was compatible with the rules of the World Trade Organisation.
At that time, the Commission proposed maintaining a non-discriminatory, fixed-quota system with a slight rating preference for the ACP countries and the transition to a 'tariff only' system in 2006.
In particular, the report proposed rejecting the automatic transition to a 'tariff only' system, a rating preference for the ACP countries of at least EUR 300 and an assessment and possible revision of the COM' s internal aspects.
The same applies to many traditional ACP supplier countries.
Well, I would remind you that the main objective of this common organisation of the market is to guarantee access to the Community market for these countries' products.
It is now already impossible for these producers to enter into fair competition with international producers and operators in the sector.
Let us remember that 62% of imports now come from third countries, mainly Ecuador, Colombia, Costa Rica and Honduras.
Behind the issue of bananas, an attempt is being made to defend an entire production industry, upon which whole regions, their life force and social balance sometimes depend.
We have therefore had to continue working on the November 1999 legislative proposal.
My second report therefore looks very much like the first and again takes up the amendments voted on in Parliament.
Codecision does not mean that the system is fair, but it means that it is the only method compatible with the rules of the WTO.
However, the United States has already made it known that it rejects this system, as have the ACP countries, moreover.
Other than that our position thus remains the same: apply the system for at least ten years in order to guarantee producers' and operators' legal security and then re-examine the system at the end of the ten years; no automatic transition to a 'tariff only' system; and a rating preference of EUR 300 for the ACP countries.
We have asked for guarantees in the event of the Commission putting in place the 'first come, first served' system for administering the rating quotas, for there would be serious repercussions for the ACP producers, who are at present incapable of taking their place in the boat race which is about to begin.
It is therefore crucial to find, in addition to the EUR 300 rating preference, a means of permitting them effective access to quota 'C' and of making an ongoing assessment of the impact of the system on these producers.
To conclude, I should like to express my regret at the fact that, on a subject like this, the European Union appears to be abandoning its values in favour of the rules of world trade.
The economy is there to serve man and, in any system in which man predominates, the rules should be adapted to the wishes and needs of man, never the other way around.
The Commission and the Council would be abrogating their responsibility if they were to judge otherwise.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, after so many debates on the banana problem, today we are a little closer to finding a satisfactory solution.
Today, however, after the agreement reached in the Council, the Commission' s latest proposal is closer to the position often expressed by a majority in this Parliament over the years.
It maintains the quota system which safeguards the sale of Community-produced bananas, it establishes a system of licences through the 'first come, first served' method, which conforms to the standard rules of world trade, and it provides for a non-automatic transfer to a tariff system which will require an assessment report on its possible impact.
For example, we feel bound to express our concern about banana production in certain ACP countries, in the small producing countries of the Caribbean and in certain countries of Western Africa, which have traditionally been suppliers to the banana market and to whom we have commitments that we cannot ignore.
Hurricane Mitch in Central America has unfortunately given us an example of what we find unacceptable.
In certain countries - Nicaragua, Honduras, and Guatemala - Mitch destroyed the banana plantations.
Some Members have expressed their concern about the negative consequences suffered by certain sectors, especially in the United Kingdom, as a result of the devious measures applied by the United States, which I believe do not conform to the GATT agreements.
We believe that the best way to help these companies is to find a way to resolve the conflict as soon as possible.
We have achieved a complex and delicate balance on this issue.
The Dary report was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and also received the unanimous support of the committee on whose behalf I am speaking.
The Dary report is a difficult and intricate piece of work which is worthy of praise, and has allowed us to unanimously approve a report on a truly complex issue.
Commissioner, it is frankly no easy task to bring together the interests of consumers with those of producers, as well as respecting the European Union' s international commitments to the ACP countries and the Lomé commitments signed in Cotonou, and also to combine efforts in favour of the outermost regions, while respecting the GATT rules for third countries and safeguarding diversity in European Union supply and production.
The workings of the compromise that has been reached, which comes within the WTO rules, must be studied by the European Commission in a report which will have to be studied by Parliament within a reasonable time limit and, in accordance with the result of that report and the study made of it, the appropriate corrective measures will have to be proposed, as Mr Dary' s report suggests.
We are not opposed to the 'tariff only' system, Commissioner, we only wish, given these sudden changes, to take the necessary precautions when it comes to making the leap from one system to another.
I therefore ask the Members of this House to endorse this report in its entirety, as did the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I am not going to say again that amendments such as the only one tabled by a certain Member do not help to achieve this.
The committee is in favour of the Commission' s proposal of maintaining the quota system by means of what is known as the "regatta" or the 'first come, first served' system, although, of course, it is not in agreement with the proposals aimed at the automatic transfer of the current quota system to a 'tariff only' system.
This conforms to the general philosophy adopted by this Parliament' s Agriculture Committee, which is that agriculture is not a normal industrial product and it is not therefore appropriate to apply generalised rules which are valid for industrial products.
It is a form of production which takes place in a range of special Community regions, the outermost regions, which suffer a range of difficulties in competing in the markets and one of whose few products is precisely this one - the banana.
Therefore, the proposals in the Dary report, approved unanimously in the Agriculture Committee, refer to the need to take account of the structural problems of these outermost regions, which furthermore have a new legal basis in Article 299(2) of the European Community Treaty, introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam, and which is currently awaiting the adoption of the relevant proposals by the Commission.
Whatever the transitional regime is - whether we go for a tariff rate quota and a licensing system which uses the so-called first-come-first-served system or the historical reference periods, whether it is before or after 1993 - we have to start accepting that this is a transitional regime which will at some point have to be replaced by a WTO-compatible 'tariff only' system.
The question is why?
The European Union has an overwhelming strategic interest to ensure that those rules are reinforced and not weakened, because if we weaken the WTO or the rule of law, who will win?
So I urge you, let us agree on what the transitional arrangement will be according to Mr Dary's report.
But unfortunately, Mr Dary, it is not in our power to insist on the fulfilment of our wishes.
Not only do views differ between States within the European Union, which is reflected, as we all know, in the difficulties experienced by the Commission in its attempts to come up with a proposal on this matter; there is also the involvement of the World Trade Organisation.
We have accepted the use of the 'first come, first served' system, we have accepted a maximum reduction of the tariff preference of EUR 300 per tonne for the ACP countries, we have also tried to obtain guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we have also asked the Commission for a report on the system' s impact.
However, I believe that we can forecast negative effects on the smaller commercial operators and on producers in the ACP countries.
It sometimes seems as though the Commission, in its proposals on deregulation in international trade and agricultural production, has gone even further than the Cairns Group.
Mr President, this endless saga of the 'banana' conflict between the European Union and the dollar banana producing countries which is no mere anecdote but an object lesson in more ways than one, for 20% of the bananas consumed in the European Union are produced in the outermost regions of the Community, and these regions need this production for their development.
A further 20% of these bananas are produced in ACP countries which also need this production for their development and with which we have entered into commitments which we ought to respect.
Each group of countries has been able to develop its production because we were offering them a market which we ought not now to take away from them.
We should continue to have no problem about giving these producers the means to live by purchasing what they produce as a priority.
That was the thinking behind the COM in the banana sector, and that is the thinking behind our rapporteur, Mr Dary' s, counter-proposal.
Let us therefore remain as firmly committed to the particular cultivation method we favour as the Americans are to their protectionist system where sugar, tobacco, peanuts or dairy products are concerned.
Mr President, may I first of all highlight Parliament' s effort in reaching a balanced solution to this complex web of interests that surrounds the COM in bananas.
It is proof of this effort that we are, for the second time, discussing a report that puts forward excellent proposals to make support of banana production in the EU and the ACP countries compatible with the WTO rules.
The same is true for other regions of the European Union, such as the Canaries and the French Overseas Departments.
The European agricultural model, based on the multifunctionality of farming, must also serve to safeguard European Union banana production.
In other words, the end of bananas in Madeira would be at least as serious from the economic viewpoint (serious collapse of income for thousands of producers) as from the environmental viewpoint (destruction of the subtropical landscape and the rural world, increased erosion).
Why, then, liberalise in 2006 when the quota system is perfectly compatible with WTO rules, as well as being the best guarantee that banana production in the Community and ACP countries can be maintained?
Mr President, the rapporteur deserves thanks and some sympathy for handling this difficult report.
It is almost impossible to reconcile the conflicting commercial interests and the dispute with the WTO, but the rapporteur and the committee Chairman have worked hard to produce a report which provides the Commission and the Council with a more realistic negotiating brief.
Our objective must be to achieve a revised banana regime that will be accepted at the WTO and reflect the EU commitment to the ACP and the most vulnerable suppliers in the Caribbean.
It is not comfortable to accept the growth of trade liberalisation and a 'tariff only' system in the future, as the Commission has concluded, but it must be faced.
The higher the tariff that can be negotiated, the less we will need other measures to help the ACP and the Caribbean.
I believe that speeding up the negotiations gives the best guarantee of an acceptable tariff level, and for this reason, above all others, I call for full support for this report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, while the issue of the liberalisation of the postal services has been important, the reform of the COM in bananas is no less important.
I would also like to thank the chairmen of the political groups in this Parliament who have accepted the stubbornness and obstinacy of the Members from the outermost regions so that this proposal for reform of the banana sector may be debated today in this House, and the mandatory opinion may be issued and can thereby arrive in time for the meeting of the Council of Agriculture Ministers which will take place in the coming days and we can therefore enter 2001 with a new reform of the COM in bananas.
I hope that this COM will reflect the aspirations of the World Trade Organisation after so many years of trade disputes, as well as those of the Community producers.
I believe that the solution indicated by the rapporteur, which was approved unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and which is now being considered in Parliament, is the least unsatisfactory solution for all the parties involved in this trade war, which began in 1993 and which now seems to be finding a degree of consensus amongst all the players, whether they be producers, sellers or consumers of one of the most emblematic agricultural products of European society, bananas, which, in the case of the Canary Islands, are unique.
Mr President, as we know, this COM in bananas is of particular importance to the ACP producer countries and some outermost regions, as is the case of Madeira, both in terms of production and employment and in terms of the environment, because of the maintenance of productive vegetation, a fundamental issue for regional development itself.
We shall vote for the proposals and this report in the hope that the Commission will review its position.
Mr President, as previous speakers have said, the time has come to find a workable solution to this problem, as well as a solution which is WTO-compliant.
It employs 50 people on a remote West Coast Scottish island and yet they are suffering from retaliation from the banana war, about which they know little and with which they have no connection whatsoever.
Mr President, once again, the House is going to deliver its opinion on the banana issue, and I congratulate Michel Dary on his remarkable work.
I hope that it will listen to our arguments today, for this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, even if it were to amount to EUR 300, is in danger of proving completely useless in practice, for the ACP producers will be wiped out by the so-called 'first come, first served' system.
Thank you, Mrs Carlotti.
I would like to very warmly welcome this Korean delegation, which has come here to attend the sixth interparliamentary meeting between the European Parliament and the Republic of Korea, which takes place in Strasbourg on 12 and 13 December.
The European Parliament and the Korean Parliament entered into direct political dialogue years ago, and this dialogue has already yielded considerable results.
We wish to strengthen our cooperation with the Republic of Korea and we now have an excellent opportunity to discuss the events that have recently taken place on the Korean Peninsular.
The Commission can accept either totally or in part thirty-three of the amendments proposed.
This would mean that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 4, 14 and 18 and that it can also approve in principle the ideas contained in Amendments Nos 5, 13 and 12.
The Commission takes the view, however, that this directive is not the right place for these ideas to be enshrined.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 17 and 20 in part but rejects most of the substance of these amendments.
Amendment No 20: Mr President, the original version of this amendment is the German version; the Spanish version is inaccurate.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 4, 8, 10, 16, 17 and 18.
The Commission is prepared, on the other hand, to accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
Amendments Nos 6 and 7 can be accepted in part.
Amendment No 9 can be accepted as a declaration but not as an article.
Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to refer to the remarks made by the Commissioner at 0.15 this morning and to point out that Amendment No 1 imposes an obligation of the Commission.
Amendments Nos 34 and 35 were not available until today.
This has also met with the approval of the person who tabled the amendment. (Parliament accepted the oral amendment) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Report (A5-0364/2000) by Mr Baltas, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the Commission report on the feasibility of negotiating a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Republic of Croatia [COM(2000) 311 - C5-0506/2000 - 2000/2244(COS)] Amendment No 1: Mr President, I have one correction to the amendment as it stands: the addition of the single word "Croatian" before the word "citizens" .
As there are 19 cases in Timor and 24 in Aceh, I have to ask the House to reject that amendment.
Mr President, I should like to inform you that, on 29 September this year, Portugal also ratified this Treaty unanimously.
Faced with this scourge, all Europeans should be clearly informed of the dangers of consuming this product, which is very harmful to human beings.
No economic or legal argument can prevail over an argument on public health grounds.
These public health proposals will therefore send a strong message to all citizens, especially the youngest Europeans.
Finally, I am delighted at the ban on exports from the European Union of tobacco products banned in the Member States.
In my long parliamentary career, which has now spanned 35 years, I have always adhered to this principle.
I have no objection to supporting stricter legislation for the European Union, but to apply this to exports is unacceptable and the legal base for this decision is dubious.
This is a sad day for the workers in Southampton who must now hope the British government might try to block the move.
Additionally, insisting on imposing our standards outside Europe is an example of post-colonial imperialism.
Half of all long-term smokers will eventually be killed by tobacco and of these, half will die during middle age losing 20 to 25 years of life.
As many as half a million people in Europe are killed by tobacco, and 85% of lung cancers are caused by smoking.
I am fed up of tobacco giants such as Marlboro, Benson &amp; Hedges and Rothmans trying to put a stop to these proposals.
The proposal will ban the use of misleading terms such as 'ultra-light' and 'low tar' .
This legislation will spell out the dangers of smoking and save thousands of lives.
Trakatellis report (A5-0377/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Trakatellis report which, as we know, allocates EUR 79.1 million for 2001-2002, including EUR 8.5 million to health information, EUR 31.1 million to the plan of action on cancer, EUR 22.2 million to the prevention of AIDS, EUR 11.4 million to the prevention of drug dependence, EUR 4.4 million to health monitoring and EUR 1.3 million to the fight against pollution-related diseases.
It is important to avoid interruption and to proceed with the extension of the existing programmes in the field of public health that expire in the short term, given that their objectives are to complement national policies in protecting human health.
In this report, the rapporteur supports the extension of the six programmes until 31 December 2002, although he rightly criticises the Commission' s legislative schedule, which lies at the root of this problem, since four were to expire at the end of this year and two at the end of 2001.
As mentioned in the report, however, it is essential that there should also be an annual extension of the financial appropriation and that the necessary measures should be taken to ensure a problem-free transition while the new programme is drawn up.
Following ten years of negotiation, I regret that this Parliament has chosen by a narrow qualified majority vote to allow company boards the right to defensive measures to frustrate takeovers without getting approval from shareholders.
However, I welcome the fact that the Commission cannot go along with the rapporteur's views on this and I hope that common sense will prevail in conciliation.
With the passage of Amendment No 20, the EPLP has made it clear that while employee consultation is the objective of a framework directive on employment, we also believe that a spirit of cooperation is needed to consult workforces and their representatives when we have discussions on takeovers and mergers.
Mr President, I voted for the directive on takeover bids.
I would have preferred this piece of legislation to have been introduced by means of a regulation, which is more appropriate for any activity relating to citizens throughout the European Union.
However, I would like to use this explanation of vote to point out that for a long time - and I hope that it will happen soon - I have been waiting for there to be a takeover bid - a TOB - for the national social welfare institutions.
I do not see why we cannot entrust the management of their own social welfare to the public as well. - (SV) The proposal to harmonise the rules of the Member States concerning company take-over bids was previously, in 1989, rejected as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity.
This view is shared by the Federation of Swedish Industries, which instead advocates 40 per cent of the votes.
Zimmerling report (A5-0370/2000) Mr President, this common position was again voted through with a narrow majority.
The Commission and the rapporteur have failed to recognise that the art trade is a global business and would be better regulated by an international agreement.
The Commission, again, has failed to commit itself to entering international negotiations to get an international deal on droit de suite, claiming that it feels it does not have a mandate in this area.
It cannot, therefore, be the objective of this Parliament to undermine the European art market and in conciliation I hope now that the Member States and Commission will be able to maintain the common position.
Mr President, I support this directive on the resale right for works of art.
In order to permit these artists to express themselves fully, it is certainly useful and important to make it possible for them to receive payment when their works are sold.
However, the attempt to reconcile the resale right with the competitiveness of the European market in objets d'art has resulted, mainly on the part of the Council, in reduced protection for the artist from subsequent sales of his works.
Besides, it is more than questionable whether there is any identifiable need for harmonisation in this sensitive area.
The introduction of the droit de suite, indeed, would lead to an erosion of the market in works of art with all its detrimental consequences; the small galleries, which have a special part to play in encouraging young artistic talent, would come under particular pressure.
In various Member States, it has transpired that resale right is superfluous and causes distortions on the internal market.
Rendering this legislation compulsory would immediately and seriously harm Europe' s competitive position in terms of art compared to other markets, because resale right outside Europe is non-existent.
This is why I am of the opinion that the international art market will move outside of Europe as a result of the directive.
Finally, I believe that the present proposal does not offer any protection to young, fledgling artists in general, but only to a small group.
Furthermore, in countries such as the Netherlands, where resale right has not been applied so far, there are plenty of options for both the young and more established artists in the shape of a buoyant art trade, which also benefits the artists.
I therefore have no choice but to vote against this directive.
For these reasons, I have voted against this report.
I am also concerned about the interests of the Croatian pensioners and that is why I am highlighting the lack of an intention in this document to extend regulation 1408 to workers who are Croatian citizens or in any case Croatian citizens who have worked both in Croatia and in the States of the European Union, for I feel that this should happen as soon as possible.
Moreover, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the CARDS programme and the European Investment Bank cannot constitute the main instruments for the European Union' s contribution to the economic and social development of Croatia.
Indeed, the fact cannot be ignored that the criteria for structural adjustment which accompany aid policies and the conditions for drawing closer to the European Union continue, and will continue, to produce social and economic disasters with explosive social consequences and entail the risk, as can now be seen in Romania, of the imminent rise of a nationalistic and xenophobic extreme right throughout this region.
We can, therefore, only condemn the fact that Fanjo Tudjman was not charged before his death, in the same way as Slobodan Milosevic, since the newly opened archives prove the extent to which the two men jointly planned the ethnic dismemberment of the region.
For all these reasons, we abstained from voting.
Maij-Weggen report (A5-0323/2000) I also voted for the document on developing closer relations between Indonesia and the European Union.
However, I would call for a European representative to be seconded to Indonesia, who could tell us whether the funds have been used to benefit the Indonesian people or not.
The European Parliament should at least adopt a firm stance against the scandalous fact that major Western companies, including a number with their head offices on European Union territory, are paying salaries more akin to derisory handouts.
We have therefore abstained from voting on this text. . (NL) Indonesia is a product of 350 years of Dutch colonialism.
The situation is alarming.
Theato report (A5-0376/2000) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report.
It is often not clear in which country a case is to be brought and difficult procedures for the exchange of evidence mean that the case often lapses under the statute of limitations or is dropped.
There are still five Member States that have not ratified the Convention for the protection of the EU' s financial interests of 1995, for example.
We therefore welcome the Theato report and have voted for the creation of the office of a European Public Prosecutor.
The creation of this new authority must not lead to any transfer of sovereignty in core areas.
The report takes up a number of ideas contained in the European judges' Geneva Appeal, such as the setting up of a European Public Prosecutor.
Finally, as if all the better to emphasise the ridiculous dispossession of the representatives of universal suffrage, the report charges the President of the European Parliament with forwarding its proposals to an Intergovernmental Conference which will already be at an end when this vote is taken.
Since nothing was decided in this area in Nice, we are doing what the report has already invited us to do and interpreting this lack of decision "as laxity and indifference in relation to fraud in Europe" .
A European Public Prosecutor established according to Corpus Juris would have wide-ranging powers to carry out investigations in Member States.
The British Government is opposed to this proposal, which it considers is too broad in scope and presents too many problems in terms of different legal systems and traditions to be practical.
The government's preference is to improve existing cooperation between Member States to tackle fraud and other serious crimes with a cross-border element.
This would involve the ratification of the 1995 Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests by those Member States which have yet to ratify, and the mutual recognition of legal systems.
If, in that process, I can safeguard the interests of our ACP countries then that is all to the good, but I believe that it is important that we safeguard and look to the welfare of European citizens.
Therefore, I call upon this House to take a decision tomorrow and I support the proposals by Mr Vatenen, who is speaking later.
I am absolutely in favour of banana producers in ACP countries and our own producers being supported with taxpayers' money to make it possible to end activities that distort trade.
The Commission' s proposal is based on the notion that a third tariff quota should be introduced where the tariff preference for ACP countries would be EUR 300 per tonne.
In 2006 the tariff quota would be abandoned and the system based on normal tariffs would take over.
The tariff system will be simpler to administer, clearer for the parties involved, and will lead to greater prosperity, according to economic theory.
In their place I have tabled Amendment No 36, which requires the shift to the customs tariff system in 2006.
I therefore want to safeguard in particular the interests of our own farmers and those in the ACP countries.
I oppose Amendment No 27 as it would water down the transitional period system totally and, in practice, would deprive Latin America of its opportunity to sell bananas under the new quota 'C' .
Commissioner Lamy has made a morally responsible and courageous proposal regarding the exemption from duty in respect of products from less developed countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us not have occasion to change the name.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Mr Dary for this, his second report, and for his committee's thorough examination of the Commission's proposal for the amendment of the common organisation of the market in bananas.
I should like to emphasise from the outset that the Commission fully sympathises with the principles that underlie many of the amendments, for example the proposals relating to the EU producers and the ACP supplier countries.
For example, for the third quota the Commission is now proposing a tariff preference of EUR 300 per tonne for the ACP supplier countries and a tariff of EUR 300 per tonne for third countries.
In accordance with our new proposal for the ACP tariff preference, the Commission can accept Amendment No 29.
This is important, because we must ensure that the third quota cannot be regarded as being solely reserved for the ACP countries in practice.
As for the recital referring to the ACP preference, we agree with EUR 300 per tonne here too, but we consider the word 'maximum' to be unnecessary.
For this reason we can only partially accept Amendment No 16.
If the report had to be presented any earlier, it would quite simply be impossible to discern the relevant market trends.
The Commission therefore regrets that it cannot accept the amendments calling for the annual submission of a formal report, by which I mean Amendments 14 and 35.
The fact is that the 'tariff only' system is an important factor which ensures that the Commission's proposal is well balanced and can serve as a basis for progress in the Council.
However, I must also remind you that, come what may, the Council must declare its acceptance of the outcome of the negotiations on Article 28 and set a new tariff.
That is why we have now proposed, in our October communication, that the quotas be administered by means of the so-called 'greyhound' system, which means that this procedure would henceforth be used for the administration of all three quotas.
However, so that all supplier countries can have access, in principle, to all the quotas, the Commission services must, as I said before, have scope to lower the tariff preference within these quotas.
In the view of the Commission, the ten-year period to which Amendments Nos 11 and 13 refer would be too long.
This brings me to the amendments that relate to additional support measures for EU producers and to compensatory aid.
Among the proposed additional support measures are marketing aid (Amendment No 24), additional support from the structural funds (Amendment No 10) and a price review with adjustment of compensatory aid as required (Amendment No 23).
These remarks relate to Amendments Nos 7, 10, 13 and 21 to 24.
On Amendments Nos 19 and 32, concerning organically produced bananas, may I say once again that there are already horizontal measures in place to guarantee the equivalence of organic bananas from third countries with those produced in the Community.
Moreover, the organic production of bananas also qualifies for support under the current agri-environmental measures.
As for fair-trade bananas, to which Amendments No 20 and 33 refer, our position on these has not changed either, because fair-trade bananas would be covered by any horizontal measures that were adopted on the basis of our communication.
It would therefore make little sense to make provision for measures relating specifically to fair-trade bananas in the common organisation of the market.
I should also like to add that financial support is likewise provided already for the development of the production of organically produced and fair-trade bananas in the ACP countries under the Regulation establishing a special framework of assistance for traditional ACP suppliers of bananas.
But, as I said, their substance is already enshrined in current legislation.
The Commission would like to thank the European Parliament for your constructive work on this proposal and to express its satisfaction at the constructive nature of the talks we have held on this extremely complex issue.
This dossier has been on the table for some time now, because we have had to discuss it with all the interested parties.
However, the Commission believes that the proposal presented in November 1999, supplemented by the communication of October 2000, offers the basis for a solution.
We hope that the House is now in a position to deliver its opinion, as requested by the Council in October.
That would be a very important step, because there is a real prospect of finding a genuine solution to this long-standing problem in the very near future.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 10.00 a.m.
Mr President, I am pleased to have this opportunity to update Parliament on preparations for the EU/US Summit in Washington next Monday.
Good relations between the United States and the European Union are, of course, vital for world security and for global economic prosperity.
The better the relationship, the safer the world and the better off our people.
As in any relationship between friends it is natural that there are occasional disputes, but we should not get these out of proportion.
We will, for example, be following up the discussion we launched at Cotonou on Africa and communicable diseases.
There are some differences in our approach to these matters, but I hope that the summit will send a positive message about the need to pursue our efforts together notably in tackling sensitive questions such as access to affordable drugs including tiered pricing.
I am sure there will be discussion too of other areas where the United States and the European Union do not quite see eye-to-eye, for example, on the environment where we must make every effort to support work to salvage a deal on climate change.
The summit will naturally touch on key areas where the European Union and the United States have worked and are working closely together in the service of peace, first, on the Balkans where we have had an increasingly close and successful relationship and where, partly thanks to our efforts, there have been so many important changes for the better over the last year.
The President and his administration have devoted enormous efforts to the pursuit of lasting peace in the Middle East.
Finally, we will, I am sure, touch on the recent decisions at Nice on the European rapid reaction force.
They represent an attempt by Europe to make good some of the failures revealed in the Balkans in the 1990s and most recently during the Kosovo conflict.
Transatlantic relations will, I hope, grow ever stronger in the years to come, but Europe will miss President Clinton.
He has laid the foundations for a serious and mature dialogue between us in the post-Cold-War world and he has worked tirelessly for a cause we all share, that of a Europe whole and free and increasingly prosperous.
From Kosovo to Belfast, millions of European citizens have cause to be thankful for the contribution he has made and I know that the House will join with me in paying tribute to that contribution today.
He has rightly said that the transatlantic relationship is one which has expanded greatly in the last ten years - mostly, it is true, on the American side thanks to President Clinton; but I think that history will relate that there has also been a European contribution to this new relationship, which has been a fundamental key to the way in which it has worked, through the Transatlantic Declaration of 1990 and through the new Transatlantic Agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995.
I think it would be very helpful, as the Commission prepares this new document on transatlantic relations, if we in Parliament could be given a document which analyses the progress which has been made so far in this relationship in looking at, for example, the success of the EU educational centres, success in terms of policy cooperation on such matters as AIDS, immigration, aid development issues and even on foreign policy questions such as work on transatlantic houses in Ukraine.
Equally it would be very helpful to know, because we are financing these in the budget of the European Union, how the dialogues have been developing.
The TABD, the Business Dialogue was very successful in its last meeting in Cincinatti, but we note that since then the Environment Dialogue has closed down in the last couple of weeks.
I believe that where we in this House are, as the Commissioner rightly pointed out, building up relationships, through the Legislators' Dialogue between the European Parliament and Congress, we would hope, in the longer term, to see that turn into a form of transatlantic assembly.
I would ask the Commissioner, in the run-up to the release of this document in April, under a new US Administration, apparently, it was decided today, under a new US President, hopefully George W.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, I believe you have given us a good introduction and briefing on the issues and topics that we shall be discussing, and I believe the honourable Member, Mr Elles, was right to emphasise the need to establish precisely what we wish our transatlantic relationship to achieve in the year 2001 and beyond.
I should be grateful if you would deal in detail with these agreements in the communication which is scheduled for the spring of next year and if, besides the analysis requested by the other side of the House, you would also make proposals as to how we can achieve new aims in future in all domains - in the various dialogues, in our cooperation in the fields of foreign policy and security policy and even in practical everyday areas such as the mutual-recognition agreements.
However, we have also seen trade policy, and trade disputes in particular, playing an ever greater role as a determinant of general political relations and gaining absolutely unmerited prominence, in my opinion.
So it will be important to change tack here and write a real Transatlantic Agenda for the year 2001.
I know that our Ambassador in Washington, Gunter Burghardt, has already spoken about this, and I should be delighted if his interesting proposals were actually incorporated into your communication.
I wish you every success in this task.
Mr President, there seem to be many issues which this summit should address on its agenda, and one that I would like to see there is follow-up to the disappointing breakdown of the climate change talks in The Hague and how to get the US to take its responsibilities more seriously.
I think it is clear that before any new round is considered we need to address the perception of many developing countries that nothing has changed since Seattle in spite of the many promises that were made at the time.
I would therefore ask you and the European Union representatives attending Monday' s Summit to tackle political issues and, more specifically, the issue of the death penalty at the same level.
It is impossible to remain silent about this State crime, especially when it is committed by the most powerful nation on earth which too often attempts to impose its own order and values on the rest of the planet.
It is impossible to accept that the only solution to crime and violence is further crime and violence.
As Nicole Fontaine rightly reminded us this morning, preserving this most precious commodity called life means, in the end, obtaining a universal moratorium on the death penalty as a first step towards its abolition.
I believe that advantage should be taken of the dialogue that exists between the European Union and the United States in order to finally achieve this objective.
Mr President, I should like to take advantage of this debate on relations between Europe and the United States to make three observations and to make three recommendations on the basis of these.
The United States of America is our competitor.
Firstly, in response to Mr Elles, we should be delighted to provide, as a backdrop to the discussion on the communication we shall produce in the new year on the strengthening of the dialogue between Europe and the United States, an analysis of the progress that we have made so far since 1990.
I think I am right in saying that EU/US trade amounts to about EUR 1billion a day and the total worth of the sanctions applied by the United States against European goods represents about six hours' worth of trade.
I know that my colleague Commissioner Lamy will want to pursue his thoughts and the Commission's latest thoughts on how to revive the WTO round with the United States and also with this Parliament.
I know he has a good and very constructive dialogue with Parliament and with the committees with an interest in these issues.
I believe I am right in recalling that there have been 81 executions in the United States this year.
We take a very clear position on the death penalty around the world, and that relates to our friends in the United States as well as to others elsewhere who may not be quite so well-disposed.
I am not greatly persuaded of the arguments about the devilish hegemonist in Washington.
I do not agree with everything the United States does, but we in Europe have good cause to recall the contribution which the United States made during the second half of the last century to our freedom and prosperity.
Thank you very much, Mr Gollnisch.
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 218/92 on administrative cooperation in the field of indirect taxation (VAT) [COM(2000) 349 - C5-0298/2000 - 2000/0147(COD)] II.
I am rapporteur for two of them, I am shadow rapporteur for Mrs Torres Marques' s report and I am tabling amendments to the report on aviation fuel, because I do not agree with some of the ideas which were approved in committee.
I fear that I am currently trapped in my group' s own crossfire.
The proposal which the Commission has referred to Parliament has, in my opinion, a priority objective: to remedy the discriminatory situation currently suffered by European e-commerce companies in comparison to companies from third countries.
E-commerce refers to the provision of services delivered by Internet and radio and TV services provided by subscription or 'pay per view' .
I am stressing this because some of the amendments intend to establish a zero rate of VAT for services which, in my opinion, are not of an essential or social nature.
The Commission also has other secondary objectives, in accordance with the traditional thinking of ministries of finance: to achieve this objective - that of ending this discrimination - by simplifying the tax, making it considerably more effective in terms of the recovery and reduction of the administrative costs relating to the collection of taxes, to achieve the objectives of efficiency and fairness and to achieve, finally, the modernisation of the tax system.
However, Mr President, I said that the first of these criteria by which we must judge this proposal is the need to end the discrimination suffered by European companies in comparison with third countries.
This discrimination comes about because Article 9 of the sixth directive establishes the presumption that the place where the service is provided is the address where the service provider is officially established.
In other words, at the moment European companies are subject to VAT when they provide electronic services, whether that be inside or outside the Union.
On the other hand, companies established outside the Union never pay VAT, whether they are providing services to European clients or to clients in other parts of the world, thereby harming our competitiveness in external markets.
Therefore, current European legislation encourages European e-commerce companies to establish themselves outside the Community.
Some of the arguments which we will hear in the course of this afternoon will say that burdening outside companies which provide services within the Union would put a brake on the growth of e-commerce, but precisely the opposite is true, since maintaining this state of affairs harms the growth of the European e-commerce industry.
We all agree on this, both on this side and on the other side of the Atlantic.
We are so much in agreement that, at the Ottawa Conference in 1998, three conclusions were reached which I consider to be important: firstly, national taxes on consumption must be applied to consumption which takes place within national territory.
In accordance with this objective, and with this international legal framework agreed by everybody in Ottawa, the Commission proposes the amendment of the sixth directive to lay down that digital services should be established in the place where the receiver is established rather than the provider.
Secondly, services provided by European companies to European customers would be subject to tax, as is normal.
And thirdly, services provided by non-European companies to European companies would also be subject to tax, which establishes equality of conditions, in other words, fair play, on an international level.
The problem does not stem transactions between companies, but occurs when the receiver of the service is a private individual, and here the Commission is doing the only thing it can do: oblige non-EU companies to register in a country of the European Union so that from there, with a Community passport, it can provide services to the whole of the Union, while having to pay the same tax as the European companies.
In my view, this solution resolves the problem of eliminating previous discrimination and achieves the objective of simplification.
A company only has to register in one country of the Union.
However, it does not resolve the problem of fairness.
We know that a solution such as this - establishment in one country with the opportunity to provide services to the whole of the Union - could lead to an avalanche towards those countries with the lowest taxes.
VAT is a tax that was intended to cover the movement of goods and does not suit the provision of services, especially a phenomenon as new as Internet services.
The second of the reports I am going to refer to deals with the problem of hydrocarbons, and the issue is very simple.
The 1992 Directive established a mandatory exemption for fuels used in international aviation and, at the same time, established a review of the exemption in order to take account of environmental costs.
The first conclusion is that little can be done until the international framework is modified.
The second conclusion reached by the Commission is that it would be desirable to have a tax on national flights and on intra-Community flights, subject to modification of the bilateral agreements, which is something I do not agree with.
Thirdly, and this I do agree with, the need - within the international framework of the ICAO - to make all the progress necessary to establish a tax which is world-wide, and therefore not discriminatory, on Community transport.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission and Parliament have in recent years made great efforts to achieve harmonisation in the levying of VAT within the European Union.
This is, in fact, an important tool in the building of the internal market and also a substantial source of revenue in the Community budget.
Thus, in 1992, an agreement was reached, at the time considered a minimum harmonisation, by which the standard rate for VAT could not be less than 15% and the Member States would have the power to apply one or more reduced rates of not less than 5%, with, however, derogations provided for in this case.
But this first stage should have lasted only until the end of 1996, when the definitive system was to come in.
The proposals submitted in the meantime only led to the floor of the standard rate of VAT being fixed at 15% - although the Commission had also proposed a ceiling of 25%, which was not accepted - and to the system being extended until the end of 2000.
This is not our view, and we have therefore voted to bring this deadline forward to the end of 2003 so that, once the euro has been in practical usage for two years, new solutions can be put forward.
But, as I see it, nothing forces the Commission and Parliament to lay down now that, at the end of 2005, the Council vote on this subject has to be unanimous.
There is even less justification for deciding now that it must be so until the end of 2005, when we know that there will be another review of the Treaties in the meantime.
They disadvantage people inside the EU because they currently pay VAT for the supply of these services whereas those outside the European Union do not.
The Industry Committee adopted a number of proposals by thirty-nine votes to three.
We called for the European Commission to monitor to ensure that there is no distortion of the market and to report back to the Council and to Parliament.
Another point we made, that was not made elsewhere, was that, as many may recall, Al Capone was gaoled not as a gangster but for tax evasion.
The Industry Committee believes that registration for VAT will enable us to subject the companies concerned to the rigours of EU law on these matters.
Our opinion was very clearly that it is not.
There are underlying assumptions in this proposal about the place of taxation which could store up problems for the future in an international context.
In short, the aim of this proposal is correct but the method is misconceived and if we really want to encourage Europe's e-economy, a right signal would be zero rate VAT for our own e-business rather than trying to impose our problems on others.
The directive concerned provides for the possibility, in future, of amending or abolishing this exemption, based on external costs and environmental damage.
The fact that fuel for road transport is about three times more expensive than aircraft fuel, is striking, to say the least.
It is estimated that around 5 percent come from aeroplanes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to address the question of the taxation of electronic services and to clarify the nature of the problem.
The only instance in which no tax is levied is when the supplier is in a non-EU country and the recipient is in a Member State of the EU.
In this respect, the French proposal that registration be carried out in fifteen countries is surely not a suitable solution.
Mr President, the progress that was made in the domain of European fiscal policy at the EU Summit in Nice was totally unsatisfactory.
We are already familiar with the problems in the domains of VAT and energy taxes.
It will soon become apparent that the European capital market also requires coordination and harmonisation if the financial action plan is to stand even the slightest chance of being implemented.
It is extremely regrettable that a framework directive on the taxation of energy products has not been adopted to this day.
Positive discrimination in favour of air transport must be abolished.
Consequently, it would be very fitting indeed if the Commission were to present us with reports which included analyses of the relationship between taxation on the one hand and actual energy savings and reduction of CO2 emissions on the other.
As far as the VAT arrangements applicable to certain services supplied by electronic means are concerned, the Commission proposal and the rapporteur merit our support.
It is unacceptable that European companies should be at a competitive disadvantage in relation to non-EU companies in the realm of e-commerce because they are liable for VAT in respect of their transactions in the world at large as well as those within the internal market.
These rules lead to a distortion of competition which obviously needs to be remedied, but the Commission's proposal is a step in the wrong direction.
This zero rate VAT should apply until the VAT rules for non-electronic goods and services have been thoroughly examined and an agreement has been reached within OECD or another international forum on a common position on the taxation of e-commerce.
Mr President, I believe that the successive interventions of our fellow MEPs in the Liberal Group show the complexity of the problem.
It is difficult to understand why the Liberals want to do away with tax on e-commerce and to place a tax on the aviation fuel used in aircraft.
I think it is important to establish some criteria.
It is important to know, on the one hand, whether a very important aspect of economic activity assists the administration of public services and, from that point of view, taxation (like State funding) is absolutely unavoidable, and e-commerce cannot be exempt from this.
On the other hand, taxation must be selected in such a way as to deter the consumer from choosing technologies which are the most harmful to the environment.
That is the situation we are in at present, with the lack of a tax on aviation fuel scandalously boosting air travel at the expense of rail travel, even in circumstances in which, for other reasons such as noise and congestion, rail travel should be given preference in Europe.
I believe that the position adopted in Mr García-Margallo y Marfil' s two reports, whereby both e-commerce and aviation fuel would be taxed, is excellent and we shall vote in favour of them.
Mr President, since Mr Sjöstedt is no longer able to be present in the House, I would like to say a few words on his behalf with regard to the report on the taxation of aircraft fuel.
The Chicago Convention has become completely out-of-date on this point.
Therefore, point 16 of the report concerning the renegotiation of the Convention is particularly welcome.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the European Commission intended to make the purchasing of digital products which can be downloaded directly from the Internet by consumers resident in the Union from extra-Community firms subject to VAT is a heavy blow for the development of e-commerce.
The Commission should rather endeavour to ensure that a common, definitive definition of the e-business taxation criteria reaches the OSCE or the WTO.
For these reasons we will vote against the report.
The tax itself embodies many of the features of the European Union which makes it so unloved in my country: it is complicated, bureaucratic, difficult and expensive to administer and, in the UK at least, enforced by a draconian and unpopular inspectorate.
On Parliament's report, I find myself in complete disagreement with virtually every single word.
I cannot, for instance, see why the introduction of the euro should require further or even any coordination of VAT rates.
I do not see the introduction of a common system of VAT as a priority and I do not agree that the introduction of a common system is long overdue.
In fact, nothing would please me, my party and the bulk of business people in the United Kingdom more than the complete abolition of VAT.
But as to reducing that time, as the rapporteur proposed, I have to oppose.
I oppose Mrs Torres Marques' call for harmonisation of VAT, but what I would really like to address is the García-Margallo report on e-commerce.
The very day a respectable dot.com starts levying VAT, a less respectable dot.com will set up selling exactly the same products without VAT and that is where the customers will go.
The amount of revenue about which we are talking is very small at the moment.
We are talking about the future of Europe's economy, the future of its e-economy, let us take the time to get this proposal right.
Mr President, this discussion gives me the opportunity to sum up my own position on the issue of taxation.
The European Union' s budget for next year will be closer to 1% than to this upper limit.
All States redistribute at least 30%, often 40% and occasionally more than 50% of their national wealth created during the year.
No one can define the optimum level of compulsory levies.
Liberals tell us that as little State involvement as possible is required.
In the United States, however, social protection is largely the province of the private sector.
Unless there is broad Community solidarity of a kind which is only possible on the basis of a federal structure that is unlikely to exist in the foreseeable future, the individual States of the European Union will be forced to retain control of their taxation.
American local sales tax may vary between zero and ten points, although the difference between neighbouring states is generally no more than five points.
The Primarolo group has devised simple rules which must be applied.
That is already happening, even in States which practice banking secrecy.
I am therefore in favour of common rules and minimum tax thresholds.
A procedure like that would eliminate the need for the European bureaucratic information exchange system thought up in Feira.
There is also a danger of the latter system leading to the complete renationalisation of European taxation, because each State will be able, in 2010, to establish its national tax as it sees fit.
Mr President, it is truly touching to hear the purportedly angelic arguments in favour of promoting e-commerce, but here the problem we have is the real competitive disadvantage of our European companies, and the problem of correcting that situation by establishing certain rules, so that all services supplied to private individuals by electronic means in the European Union are subject to VAT.
Therefore, in order to ensure that operators from outside the Union are subject to the same tax obligations as domestic operators when providing services to consumers, they must be registered for VAT purposes in a Member State of their choice, with the VAT rate of the State they choose being the one that applies to their operations.
It is an inappropriate argument and it is not in accordance with European legislation, and furthermore it would do comparative harm to services provided by other means.
Furthermore, it is not true that a moratorium on the taxation of electronic services has been introduced in the United States.
I personally tabled an amendment on the harmonisation of VAT rates, which would correct the effects of unfair competition resulting from third country operators' power to choose when it comes to registering, since there is a very broad range of VAT rates available to them - between 15 and 25% - while domestic operators have no choice.
However, I believe that a better solution has been found to compensate the Member States for the loss of VAT income resulting from these differences in rates, a solution which I consider to be satisfactory.
By way of an objection, the Group that I represent in this House believes that we should correct the fact that, while newspapers normally enjoy reduced VAT rates, this reduction is not applicable to electronic newspapers.
This has been accompanied by a correspondingly sharp increase in emissions of greenhouse gases and noise levels.
Fuel taxation serves several purposes.
These taxes therefore confront industry with a constant challenge to manufacture vehicles with lower fuel consumption.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speedy work on this report on VAT and e-commerce.
I think the comments I have heard around the floor today would almost suggest that we do not need this kind of report, but of course we do.
But the fact is that VAT on goods and services applies across the European Union.
The source where the tax should apply is a matter of concern, and the discussion around the number of countries which would qualify to have companies registered in them is something which I believe will be burdensome and of course provoke the USA to a complaint in the WTO.
Mr President, I would like to warmly welcome the report on aviation fuel tax because it addresses head-on the fact that aviation is the fastest-growing source of greenhouse gas emissions and that far from discouraging these emissions, the current exemption of aviation from a fuel tax actually promotes and artificially stimulates the aviation sector and the environmental damage that goes with it.
I particularly welcome the fact that the report reinforces one of the key points that I made in my report for the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism which this Parliament voted on a few months ago, namely, that since it is undoubtedly politically difficult to achieve international agreement on an aviation tax, at least in a short term, we should look at alternative tools to achieve the same effect, including an emissions charge.
Such a charge could be levied on all flights coming into or going out of EU airports, on all carriers, and plenty of research has been done to show that this would not have negative competitive effects.
It could be agreed very swiftly without requiring international consensus, and could help make significant progress towards internalising environmental costs.
So, instead of trying to meet projected demand we need to try to manage and reduce that demand by ensuring that the price of aviation more accurately reflects its environmental cost.
It makes no sense at all that I can travel from London to Brussels return for just £89 by Virgin Airways, for example, yet when I use Eurostar, which produces far fewer greenhouse gases and is a much more pleasant way to travel, I have to pay the equivalent of around £250 for a similar journey.
So to conclude, action in this area is overdue and if we do not do something about it very swiftly then our efforts to try to reduce the impacts of climate change are going to be stymied.
Mr President, I wish to address my concerns this afternoon to the proposed taxation on aircraft fuel.
Whilst there is recognition in this report that a kerosene tax cannot be imposed internationally due to the exemption in the Chicago Convention, nevertheless the introduction of such a tax, intra-EU or bilaterally, would be severely damaging to the United Kingdom and the entire European aviation industry.
In fact, the industry pays 100% of its infrastructure costs through air traffic control and airport charges, amounting to US $4bn in 1998 - unlike other modes of transport, such as rail and road, which are still heavily subsidised.
In addition, to impose this tax would bring little benefit to the environment, as was proven by the introduction of the air passenger duty tax in the United Kingdom.
Other approaches, such as trading and offsets, could be more environmentally-friendly and cost- effective.
Finally, such measures would ruin the competitiveness of the European industry vis-à-vis the rest of the world and would also cause massive job losses.
This report is badly crafted on the part of the Commission and this Parliament.
The public at large deserves better.
Mr President, some old shibboleths have resurfaced in this debate.
There are those who, rather than trying to resolve a question at European level, imagine that it is always better to refer it to other fora so as not to resolve it.
We do, in fact, think that we must review our tax system in the light of technological developments.
The current situation is an unfavourable one.
Now, it seems that very many voices, in this Chamber too, have been raised in support of this industry.
We think this distortion of competition between Member States and third countries is unacceptable.
Then, there is the argument according to which a sector should be exempt from tax on the grounds that it is experiencing rapid growth.
If this can provide the basis for a compromise, it will probably be a good compromise as long as it is not used to reintroduce distortion of competition due to the different VAT rates applicable in our various Member States.
The equalisation mechanism proposed by our rapporteur is along these lines.
But we must also reach an agreement, because there are widely differing views here in the House about the method we should use to tackle this problem.
I believe we all agree that it would be very difficult indeed to find a global solution but that a global solution represents the ideal outcome.
There are now some - and they include a majority of the committee - who say they want a European tax, to which the rapporteur has rightly replied that such a tax could only cover a tiny percentage of the world's air traffic and, more crucially, that it would create a huge problem for European industry.
I know that my own party at home would support the principle of a European tax, but I believe the time has come for us to make a real concerted effort to identify common ground and to seek the solution that has the greatest possible beneficial impact on the environment coupled with the least possible distortion of competition for European industry.
To that end, the proposal for emission-based take-off and landing fees ought to be seriously examined, because it offers a means of including aircraft from other parts of the world, such as the United States and Japan, in the taxation regime when they land in Amsterdam, London, Paris or Frankfurt and thus of achieving greater environmental benefit and less distortion of competition.
There might be problems with the WTO, but I believe it is up to the Commission to seek a solution at the WTO negotiations, a solution which is compatible with the WTO rules and which our trading partners might be persuaded to accept.
While the expansion of air traffic and the environmental problems of global warming and pollution are serious and important issues, I feel that a more effective approach would be to tackle this within an international framework.
This same problem of trying to impose a regional solution to a global question arises with the difficult issue of VAT on digital electronic services.
To levy VAT on third-country suppliers, largely American, is not only impractical but, in the case of newspapers and books, it gives rise to inconsistencies between the same products sold on line as opposed to in a shop.
Finally, the Torres Marques report on a minimum standard rate for VAT represents tax harmonisation by the back door and threatens the UK's zero rates on children's clothes, food and newspapers.
As a British Conservative, I can only regret the high indirect tax rates throughout the European Union and I hope that by promoting tax competition we may bring pressure on our Labour Government to lower them in the United Kingdom.
Secondly, I should like to deal briefly with the proposals on services provided by electronic means, which primarily relate, of course, to services downloaded from the Internet and to radio and television services.
I believe we must ensure that no competitive disadvantages are incurred within Europe.
As, for example, Mr Schmidt said in his speech, we must comply with what was agreed at Lisbon and do all we can to strengthen the dynamism of the European Union.
If we are too greedy in this matter now under discussion we will really be jeopardising the future of e-business, which is so important for Europe.
Naturally, I agree with the Commission' s proposal and with all my colleagues who have spoken here today that the distortion of competition that now exists in the market must be eliminated as soon as possible.
This distortion can be eliminated in two ways: either by imposing the same tax obligations on companies that come from third countries as on their European counterparts, or by also exempting European companies working in this field, which is just being developed, from VAT.
Mrs Randzio-Plath, for example, said this.
I would especially like to thank the rapporteur, Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, for his contribution and for the positive ideas which were put forward in his report.
There is general consensus that a solution must be found whereby suppliers from outside the Community need only register at one location, and this is an absolute necessity in the eyes of the Commission.
The rapporteur' s idea to develop a mechanism to avoid distortions emanating from differences in rates meets with the support of a majority of the Member States.
Although I do not foresee any insurmountable technical hitches, a great deal of time will need to be invested in the next couple of months in the further development of the system, particularly with respect to the legal basis, so as to enable tax to be levied on all Member States by means of one declaration.
The intention of my proposal is to iron out any existing inequalities and to create equal conditions for European and non-European companies.
I am also prepared, in principle, to accept Parliament' s amendment proposal on administrative cooperation.
This is a simplification measure which regulates the exchange of information between the Member States on VAT numbers in the electronic trade, and we will take the proposal to heart in our future work in Parliament and the Council.
Allow me now to turn to the proposal on the minimum level of the normal rate.
Despite the efforts made by this Parliament and the Commission, as referred to by the rapporteur in his report, little progress has been made so far on the activities to replace the present VAT transitional regulation by a final regulation based on tax in the country of origin.
Consequently, without prejudicing the idea of a definitive system but with a view to improving the working of the internal market in the short term, the Commission has drawn up a new VAT strategy which comprises four key goals, namely the simplification and modernisation of the existing rules, more uniform application of the present provisions and stricter implementation of administrative cooperation.
It is in the light of this that this proposal is seeking to maintain the existing level of harmonisation in the field of VAT rates by confirming the minimum level of 15% for the normal rate.
Finally, I would like to comment on the report on tax on aircraft fuel.
The Commission' s communication regarding tax on aircraft fuel accommodated the request which the Council made in its resolution of 9 June 1997.
In it, the Council asked the Commission to provide more detailed information on all aspects of the introduction of such tax and especially on the environmental effects, the competitive position and profitability of the aviation industry within the European Union compared to its competitors outside of the Union, and the possibility of applying other instruments which have similar effects.
Furthermore, this approach was generally well-received during the discussions which were held within the Council.
The recommendation that future discussions must take place within the framework of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the ICAO, namely during its 33rd general meeting in September and October of the year 2001, also met with the same level of support.
These discussions will prove very difficult, however, since the possibility of levying tax on aircraft fuel was not decided on at the previous general meeting.
Despite this, the Community could urgently request the review of the existing ICAO provisions concerning tax on aircraft fuel to be included in the working programme of that organisation and to underline the anticipated positive environmental effects of such a measure vis-à-vis other ICAO members.
A resolution issued by the general meeting of the ICAO which paves the way for an internal solution to the issue of tax on aircraft fuel or the use of other instruments with equivalent effects would be a crucial first step in the right direction.
The European Parliament is of the opinion that in a fast growing sector, such as the aviation sector, the environmental effects of relatively unimportant measures can never be considered insignificant.
I would, however, like to point out that current Community tax legislation does not allow for only national and intra-Community flights to be taxed.
This would become possible after the Council has approved the Commission' s proposal on the restructuring of tax on energy products, which has been before the Council for discussion since March 1997, and concerning which this House is aware that approval is still pending.
The debate is closed.
Erika II The next item is the Commission communication on the Erika II package on safety at sea.
This accident, which followed many others, gave rise to anger and despondency amongst the communities that were affected and within public opinion in general because of the opacity of the maritime sector and the inability of the legislation in force to prevent problems such as this.
The sinking of the Erika had a completely new and surprising effect.
It is obvious that one State of the Union on its own cannot have any real influence on maritime transport across the world and, on the other hand, the International Maritime Organisation is too slow and lacks effective means to adequately monitor the rules which it lays down.
One year after the sinking of the Erika, we must all ask ourselves whether or not we have really been able to meet the expectations of Europe' s citizens.
For its part, just three months after the accident, the Commission assumed its responsibilities and adopted a first package of measures, which the European Parliament approved fully on 30 November.
In addition to these first measures, the Commission has just adopted, on 6 December, a second package which I believe will respond even more directly to people' s expectations and will also profoundly change the rules of the game in the field of maritime transport, which will be of great benefit to maritime safety and to the protection of our coasts against the risks of pollution.
As such, the first measure is a proposal for a directive establishing a European system for monitoring, inspection and information with regard to maritime traffic.
The Commission' s proposal therefore has three fundamental objectives: firstly, to carry out better monitoring and inspection of the traffic of all the ships off our coasts.
Another device, whose importance in the eyes of MEPs is known to the Commission, is black boxes, which are also required by this directive, which must be fitted on board ships which dock in a European port, in order to aid the investigation of the facts in the case of an accident at sea or, possibly, to facilitate inspection by the port State.
The second objective is to simplify and speed up, in the case of accident, the communication of detailed information on dangerous and polluting cargoes, obliging ships and authorities to communicate the data electronically.
And the final objective of this directive is to strengthen the management of emergency situations at sea, through the obligation to designate ports of refuge, the prohibition on taking to sea during high storms and greater powers of intervention at sea on the part of the coastal State in the event of a serious risk of pollution.
Secondly, another aspect of this package consists of improving the rules in force in the field of responsibility and compensation for damages in the event of pollution by oil or its derivatives.
At the same time, we will be approaching the international bodies in order to try to review in detail the system established by the international agreements.
In the event that the IMO does not adopt the necessary measures, the Commission would submit a proposal to Parliament and the Council on a Community system for responsibility and compensation in the event of pollution by hydrocarbons.
In fact, with more than fifteen directives or regulations in force, it is crucial that we standardise practices and exercise greater control over the implementation of Community rules, in order to prevent significant and unacceptable differences in the field of maritime safety which could arise within the Union.
The European Maritime Safety Agency constitutes a first stage in the increasing integration of the administrative practices of the Member States, which may one day lead to the creation, as has been repeatedly requested by this House, of a genuine European coastguard organisation.
This issue is of crucial importance, since through it the European Union has asserted, in the eyes of the outside world and of its citizens, its ability to impose its own demands, in an international environment which is in principle largely unfavourable, in the field of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution.
The oil companies tell us they have a voluntary fund.
If you tell us that experience has shown the voluntary fund to be inadequate, which would be unfortunate, we shall then try to sort out this issue.
Madam Vice-President, how do you rate the prospects of the Council taking a decision on the Erika I package in December?
Parliament took its decision on 30 November; you presented a good document, and we decided quickly.
We obviously would welcome her support on that issue, but we want to know how she will persuade these Member States to do what up until now they appear to be unwilling to do.
Secondly, there is nothing in her package to tackle the problem of the blacklisted flag states, states sadly that include Cyprus and Malta, where 50, 60, 70, 80% of ships have defects.
Secondly, I hope that the ministers are capable, even at 4 or 5 o' clock in the morning, of approving the Erika I package.
Even the countries which have a lesser degree of safety with regard to their ships have some ships which are safe; therefore, in accordance with international laws, we cannot exclude them a priori.
I would like to remind Members that, in air safety, the amounts of compensation paid in Europe and North America are not equal to the amounts paid in other countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, as you have pointed out, next week, a year will have passed since the Erika disaster and the European Parliament and the Council have still not been capable of agreeing on the approval of the initiative for the first maritime safety package.
In this first package there is a proposal relating to Directive 57/94, which deals with inspections of ships and the classification societies.
The main difficulty stems from the amendment of Article 6 of that directive; the Commission and the European Parliament propose the introduction of financial compensation to cover the possible responsibilities of classification societies in cases of maritime accidents.
Since the essence of this issue centres on this compensation, I would ask you, Commissioner, to withdraw the amendment to Article 6 and I would like to ask all the other Members of the European Parliament to withdraw the amendments to Article 6 and let us leave it for the second package which you have just announced.
In this case, the body responsible is not a company which is difficult to identify.
Mr Ortuondo, in relation to your intervention on Article 6, on responsibility in the case of less serious pollution, I can tell you that the first thing I am going to find out is what the Council thinks, but Parliament has already adopted a position on this issue.
That does not consider who is liable or not, simply how much should be paid; but there is a maximum ceiling, as you well know, of USD 180 million, some EUR 200 million, which, as I have said, is inadequate.
We have received no information so far about an increase in the number of inspectors, but I hope that this will happen.
With regard to European coastguards, I believe that in order to facilitate the creation of an agency we can at least begin to better coordinate the action of the various bodies which act in the various European Union waters and which are different in each country.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0559/2000).
Provided that the implementation aspects of the charge in question do not introduce indirect discrimination either and they respect all other relevant specific rules governing the introduction of user charges in the European Union, such a charge seems at this stage to be in line with current Community law, that is Directive 1999/62/EC.
This directive, adopted by unanimity in 1993, laid down the conditions under which Member States could, if they wanted, apply time-related user charges or motorway tolls.
The overall aim of this legislation was the elimination of distortions of competition through the establishment of fair mechanisms for charging infrastructure costs to hauliers and the harmonisation of levy systems within the EU internal market.
Twelve of the 15 Member States have already adjusted their levy systems with more emphasis put on direct charging, user charges or motorway tolls and less on taxes.
The Commission considers that such adjustments go in the right direction towards the establishment of fairer charging systems which give also an incentive for a more rational and efficient use of the road network.
The measures announced by the UK signal such a readjustment of their charging system.
The UK government has confirmed it is in the process of preparing its reply to the Commission's request for detailed information on the entire package of measures planned in the UK.
I live in a part of the Union where in order to move from part of the state to another it is necessary to drive through the United Kingdom.
So is it acceptable that a vehicle may be stopped at the border of a neighbouring Member State if they comply with all the legal requirements in their own country?
I have set out in the Commission's response the principles and the criteria and assured Parliament that the Commission will analyse and follow closely the development of the UK scheme, including its implementation in practice, and of course the absence of any discrimination be it direct or indirect will be a crucial reference point in such an assessment.
I have a similar question, number 60 actually, in the order paper.
I have to stick to the measures as announced and I find it even more difficult to speculate about the ramifications of the subject as I am not the Commissioner specifically in charge.
In reply to the honourable Member who asked how the structure of the charging system in the UK affects competition in the road haulage sector, perhaps I could add that at the moment British hauliers pay road-tolls or user charges - "vignettes" - when travelling in other countries such as France or Belgium, while at the same time they pay at home high vehicle taxes through which they contribute towards the infrastructure costs of the road network in Britain.
They therefore do not contribute at all towards road infrastructure costs in Britain and at the same time pay lower vehicles taxes at home.
This imbalance of an economic nature between the charges and taxes imposed on hauliers in different Member States distorts the conditions under which hauliers of different nationalities compete in the UK.
The Community has several mechanisms to protect the health of consumers with regard to the safety of food imports from third countries.
The Food and Veterinary Office performs on-the-spot inspections and audits in third countries to verify that exports from these countries meet the EU's animal and public health requirements.
In addition, Council Directive 97/78 of 18 December 1997 lays down the principles governing the organisation of veterinary checks on products entering the Community from third countries.
On the question of the use of meat-and-bone meal: their export is covered in exactly the same way by the legislation that governs the production of meat-and-bone meal within the European Union, and also with the requirement for the removal, for instance, of specified risk material from meat-and-bone meal is covered in legislation and will be in operation from 1 March 2001.
As far as the Commission is concerned, we have never supported financially the production or distribution of school textbooks nor the preparation of school curricula.
I should point out, in addition, that Article 2 of the EC/Palestinian Interim Association Agreement clearly states that mutual cooperation between the parties "has to be based on the respect of democratic principles and fundamental human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights which guides their internal and international policy".
The honourable Member may also be interested to know that we have financed several projects worth about EUR 4.5 million in recent years, designed to foster dialogue between Israeli and Palestinian youth.
As you said, Commissioner, particularly where wages are concerned, the European Union is funding a form of education which is, in reality, being twisted into anti-Semitic propaganda.
It is our view about the situation everywhere in the world.
The main focus of our assistance in the region has always been to promote a culture of peace, tolerance and human rights.
That is where the future lies: to build understanding and tolerance between these two peoples.
We have to look at more projects in this area, not least those run by non-governmental organisations.
Texaco and Chevron have therefore entered into pre-notification discussions with the Commission's merger task force.
The Commission's assessment under the Merger Regulation can therefore only take into account competition concerns that affect European companies and citizens.
The Merger Regulation provides no legal basis to take allegations of human rights abuses into account and the Commission therefore has no powers to investigate such alleged abuses in this context.
Mr Patten, sitting alongside him, must have been squirming when he heard that answer, because in the previous question we heard a great lecture on respect for human rights.
Let me say about Texaco that the Centre for Economic and Social Rights says that in Ecuador they are responsible for a high occurrence of abortion and abnormally high cancer rates.
In Nigeria, Chevron has been accused by the All-Ijaw indigenous people of instigating violence against them and actually paying Nigerian soldiers to shoot protesters at the Warri naval base.
Whatever you say about the legal base and concern over competition policy, the public in Europe is concerned about such abuses of human rights.
I can assure Mr Howitt that the Commission, individual Commissioners and I personally, are very concerned about all issues pertaining to possible abuses of human rights.
Having said that, there are, of course, different instruments for different purposes, and in the Community legal order, the Merger Regulation has the very limited, and yet important enough, objective of ensuring the protection of competition in the interests ultimately of consumers on the occasion of mergers.
The Merger Regulation is a powerful tool to ensure that the interests of consumers are protected when companies combine their activities.
Conversely, Member States and the European Union have at their disposal other means to deal with human-rights-related issues.
Question No 37 by (H-0900/00) Subject: Shipbuilding On 15 November the Commission published its third report on the state of shipbuilding in the world.
However, among the various actions proposed, it committed itself to examine as soon as possible the possibilities to propose measures to address the Korean problem in accordance with the Regulation.
At its meeting of 29 November, the Commission reaffirmed that it is against any prolongation of operating aid.
However, it indicated that it is ready to explore the possibilities for greater use of national support for research and development, including appropriate changes to Regulation 1540/98.
The Commission also recalled that substantial funding for research and development is available under the Community research framework programme.
As regards trade actions, on 2 December the Commission published its decision to open an investigation following industry's complaint under the Trade Barriers Regulation (TBR).
In the context of this TBR procedure, the Commission can decide to resort to WTO dispute settlement procedure unless a mutually satisfactory solution is agreed with the authorities of the Republic of Korea.
The final investigation report will be transmitted to Member States by April 2001.
In addition, if in the framework of the TBR procedure the Commission does not achieve a negotiated solution with Korea satisfactory for the European Union, the Commission will report to the Council by 1 May 2001 and will propose to bring the case to the WTO in order to seek remedy against unfair Korean practices.
On a multilateral level, the Commission will pursue its efforts to establish a level international playing field for the shipbuilding industry within the OECD.
The Commission's position was presented to the Industry Council on 5 December and the Council welcomed the Commission's determination to tackle the problem of unfair Korean competition and took note of the Commission's proposals in this regard.
However, the dates mentioned by the Commissioner - there was a meeting on 29 November, on 2 December it was decided to open an investigation, and then it is said that it may happen within six months, etc.
We will possibly have to wait half a year to know whether or not the World Trade Organisation will condemn the unfair competition of the Koreans.
At the same time it was decided that Mr Lamy should in further negotiations and actions vis-à-vis Korea, have the most powerful and focussed instruments.
On this issue of coke imports, I should like to begin by emphasising that the Commission services have - as is only right - undertaken a very thorough analysis of dumping on the part of the Chinese, the resultant harm caused to European industry and the possible consequences for users of the coke.
Particular attention has been paid to the issue of employment.
Coke-using industry employs a total of 70 000 people, but this product represents only a very marginal portion of its costs, in the region of 2%.
The increase in prices which would result from the anti-dumping measures should enable the coke industry to become profitable again.
In the light of all the arguments presented, it has therefore been concluded that imposing anti-dumping measures was in the general and overall interests of the European Union.
I believe it is important to emphasise that here we are looking at a coke industry that has only 800 employees, but that we have a user industry with over 6 000 employees that would be adversely affected in purely competitive terms by such an anti-dumping duty.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 39 and 40 will be taken together.
Question No 39 by (H-0883/00) Subject: Everything except armaments Is the Commission content that this dramatic proposal - which may well have dire consequences for already hard-pressed sugar beet farmers in the European Union - should be passed without any consultation of the directly-elected European Parliament?
Question No 40 by (H-0889/00) Subject: Market access for less developed and developing countries Does the Commission intend to honour its obligation under the Cotonou Agreement to consult ACP countries, and undertake country and sector specific impact studies, before the Council takes a decision on the Commission's proposals to grant duty-free and quota-free access to the European market for all products, except armaments, from the world's 48 least developed or developing countries?
The Commission' s proposed regulation which we have designated 'Everything but arms' is designed to give least and less developed countries access to the Community market, duty-free and quota-free, for all exports except for arms.
This initiative is based upon a Council regulation amending the regulation which defines the current GSP.
The Commission' s proposal is based upon Article 133 which, as you know, does not at present lay down any legal obligation to consult Parliament.
The result has now been obtained and you know as well as I do that the Intergovernmental Conference has not taken up this suggestion, since no Member State supported it.
Regarding Glenys Kinnock' s question concerning the link between this initiative and the Cotonou agreement, I should like to say again that the Commission entirely respected the spirit and the letter of the provisions of this agreement when it came to informing and consulting the ACP countries.
We forwarded our proposal to the ACP countries at practically the same time as to our Member States.
These consultations were conducted within the framework of the ACP sub-committee for commercial cooperation which met on 21 November 2000.
The Member States intimated that they would like the Commission to present a more detailed impact assessment before taking a decision.
We are therefore prepared to monitor the effects of this initiative and its results very carefully and to examine, if need be together with the ACP States, the measures which might be required in order to preserve their competitive position in the Community' s markets.
Mr President, may I thank the Commissioner very much for his very positive reply about cooperation with Parliament.
I am sure all my colleagues are very grateful.
This particular subject is of great concern to British sugar beet growers as you can imagine, because it is about the only crop that is profitable in the UK at the moment.
Secondly, you talked about the spirit of Cotonou being honoured.
What they feel, Commissioner, is that Cotonou was very carefully negotiated by the ACP and that within five months, almost before the ink is dry, there are proposals without any consultation.
Of course, you had consultation after the event, but not before, which is part of the agreement under Cotonou, as you know, as is the need for joint impact studies to be undertaken.
If need be, we shall include the necessary precautions in the amendments we are working on.
We are in fact working on a number of amendments with a view to making this proposal acceptable both to the Council and to Parliament.
Like Mrs Kinnock, I am aware of the difficult situation facing small islands.
I was present at the meeting and broached this issue with the ministers who, following the meeting, voted for a resolution favourable to the Commission' s initiative.
Commissioner Lamy, when I asked you about this earlier this year at a previous Question Time you said this was not possible for a further five or six years.
Finally, can you comment on whether this was discussed within the College of Commissioners today?
If so, what was the nature of that discussion and would you expect any movement on this issue before you come before our committee on Development and Cooperation next Strasbourg on 16 January?
In view of their situation, these countries unfortunately have no capacity for autonomous negotiation, and it is therefore a gesture which we ought, in my opinion, to make unilaterally, without anything in return.
With regard, finally, to the problems it might cause for other economies, we are taking the necessary steps, and it is in this spirit that we are busy re-examining the Commission' s proposal so that the impact on other ACP countries is as limited as possible.
As my colleague Bill Newton-Dunn said, we have a number of colleagues in the UK who are indulging in fairly standard if facile anti-European scaremongering on this proposal and they have got a large number of sugarbeet farmers extremely worried.
The impact assessment, Mr Clegg, is at present being prepared within Mr Fischler' s directorate.
Let us have no illusions: given the state of the economies concerned, it is difficult to devise models for their ability to respond on these matters.
Questions Nos 41 and 42 will be replied to in writing.
One of the four organisations is ECPAT, whose measures in this area during 2001, which are eligible for aid, are wholly covered by this application.
The Commission's procedure for granting the desired financial support will soon be complete, and this also includes the funds which ECPAT requires for 2001.
Programmes like Stop and Daphne have been earmarked by the Commission to allow child sex tourism to be fought as a form of sexual exploitation of children and violence against children in the candidate countries too.
In addition, specific projects financed within the framework of the European Union's policy for development and external relations can also relate to work in the fight against child sex tourism in countries outside the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner Liikanen, this very night we shall be discussing the proposal for a Council Decision on European digital content.
We have three types of activities in this area.
We have had a particular project for that.
A new article in the Treaty provides for a possible increase in the powers of the European Court in this sense.
However, I am of the opinion that it is premature at this stage to enter into a discussion as to where the future Community patent tribunal should be based.
It is essential that one judicial body be put in place, both in first instance and in appeal, where patent disputes are settled.
Hitherto the main thrust has been one whereby litigation is primarily focused in Member State courts but problems of interpretation of Community law are centralised in the sense of references to the Court.
Having said all that, I agree with Mr MacCormick that one should be very sparing in erecting special tribunals.
Question No 45 by (H-0879/00) Subject: Community trade mark courts Article 91 of Regulation (EC) 40/94 requires the Member States to set up at least one court to deal with private disputes arising from Community trade marks.
Paragraph 5 of Article 91 of the Community trade mark regulation stipulates that, as long as a Member State has not notified the Commission which courts of first and second instance are authorised, each procedure must be instituted at the judicial body of that Member State which is given absolute or relative powers.
To prevent this provisional situation from turning into a permanent one, on 13 July of last year, the Commission reminded the Member States concerned in a letter, of their obligation to designate courts for the Community trade mark.
Since then, those countries have still not notified the Commission that they have taken steps.
If the Member States do not respond to this reminder, or give an unsatisfactory response, the Commission, in accordance with Article 226 of the Treaty, can decide to open an infringement procedure on account of non-compliance with Community legislation.
Commissioner, you say that you are going to adopt the necessary measures, one of which is the opening of an infringement procedure.
Accordingly, we are unable to provide the honourable Member with the information requested at this moment in time.
Also, the Commission has assessed whether the funding of the project can be reconciled with the rules of the Treaty in terms of state support and has not reached a verdict yet.
Consequently, the Commission is unable to examine all the facts of this case and take a final decision in which it gives its assessment of the situation.
It stipulates that the Thessaloniki underground rail project can be part-financed by the EFRO for a maximum of EUR 122 million, whilst the contribution of the national government will amount to approx. 122 million and the franchise holder must pitch in with EUR 413 million.
It is obvious that the Commission respects this principle.
Having said this, pursuant to the same regulation, Member States need to take all necessary and proportionate measures to restore the free movement of goods on their territory as soon as possible so as to avoid serious disruptions to the free movement of goods when a restriction as defined in the regulation has occurred in the context of a strike or similar action.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that Member States must decide for themselves what constitutes a legal strike pursuant to their legislation.
This is clear from recital 6 of the regulation.
Awarding a diploma in this way does not contravene UK legislation and can thus be deemed legal.
The directives apply to professions which do not fall within one particular directive.
The principles which I have explained here apply equally to all Member States or in all Member States of the European Union.
A French university and a British university have entered into a contract with an educational establishment in Greece and students from France, Britain or any other country study in those institutions in Greece.
They take their examinations there under the supervision of the French or British university, and the degrees which are eventually granted are British and French degrees.
If then the student in that establishment, perhaps a Greek student, does not gain recognition for his diploma or degree in Greece, then I am afraid there is no alternative other than for him to address himself to the Greek authorities saying that he has been awarded a French or a British degree en bonne et due forme, as the French expression is.
Question No 49 by (H-0912/00) Subject: Transport links across the straits between Vaasa, Finland and Umeå, Sweden Shipping in the narrows of the Gulf of Bothnia is to be discontinued, since it is unprofitable now that shipping firms have no opportunities for tax-free sales.
For the period 2000 to 2006, Finland and Sweden in cooperation with Norway have submitted a programme proposal under the Interreg Community initiative for the Kvarken-Mittskandia area.
The proposal includes actions to examine infrastructure and communications across the Kvarken and also between Sweden and Norway, and it is expected to be approved in the coming weeks, which would allow projects to be submitted early next year.
That project would have a clear impact on employment.
As to the honourable Member's question about the Interreg programme, I am afraid that at present I am unable to give a proper reply, not only because the business of Interreg programmes does not form part of my portfolio but more particularly because an accurate analysis of the proposal has not yet been made.
However, I am certain I can say on behalf of my colleague Michel Barnier that the facts which have been mentioned by the honourable Member will duly be taken into account when an analysis is made of that proposal.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 50 to 86 will be replied to in writing.
President, I welcome this initiative from the Commission.
If we do not act and tackle the barriers that undermine the potential of European industry, then the European citizen will pay the price not only in terms of slower economic growth and lower employment opportunities, but also in terms of cultural and social influence.
We in Europe are lagging behind the US because at present the EU market is fragmented as a result of linguistic and cultural diversity.
In my view we must adopt an inclusive approach in relation to languages and a pledge to commit more funding to this area, precisely because European SMEs are dissuaded from setting up websites in different languages by the burdensome cost that they incur.
It should not be necessary to master the English language in order to find interesting content on the Internet.
The presence of content in different languages will promote citizens' equal access to the information society and therefore prevent the creation of an information underclass.
Secondly, I believe that the initial proposal of five years is far too long and should be curtailed to four years, especially because of the rapid evolution of the e-content sector.
In changing priorities from public sector information to multilingual content, my intention is not to diminish the importance of public sector information.
My reasoning is that I believe there is a greater potential for public/private partnerships as there is a huge commercial value to be exploited on the market in the interest both of companies and citizens.
The problem I am mainly concerned with is that small enterprises do not always have sufficient guarantees and a proven business track record to offer investors.
However, if we could make use of expertise already available in terms of business experience by encouraging the establishment of a mentoring service through which successful business people would introduce new entrants to the sources of financing available, we could give Europeans in business the head start they need.
That is why I have proposed a lot of amendments to emphasise the importance of access for all.
If we include only content useful to businesses, particularly meteorological and geographical content (as is extremely desirable), it must not of course be forgotten that, where content intended for citizens is concerned, it is a much more complicated matter than of simply taking information useful to businesses.
This means that digital content offers an opportunity to all those who have not had access to schooling, be it lifelong training or because they are handicapped, and I want digital content to make a better approach to such people possible.
Cultural and linguistic diversity is served by the e-content economic project, and I am pleased to know that we shall be able to support linguistic diversity thanks to digital content.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has studied this subject in terms of two specific aspects of the report: on the one hand, public access to documents and the commercial exploitation of information originating in the public sector; and on the other hand, the exchange of intellectual property rights.
Public sector information plays an important role when it comes to citizens' participation and the expression of their freedoms, but it also represents an important potential resource for the European information market.
Cost must not act as a filter for access to the information from which commercial suppliers ought also to benefit.
A common basis for billing and a common legal framework governing the right of access must therefore be defined, and this effectively means defining the very nature of this information to see whether or not it can be protected by copyright.
The goal is to stimulate the creation of digital content while protecting intellectual property rights in such a way as to ensure respect for beneficiaries and for consumers legally accessing the content.
Although linguistic differences might mean extra costs, multilingual content is an important precondition of democracy in the EU.
Nowadays it is not enough that people can read: new media reading skills will be actually just as important in the new millennium as traditional literacy.
Commissioner Liikanen, by the year 2003 we shall probably have 1.7 million job vacancies in the information society in Europe which cannot be filled, and I believe that this in itself makes it essential that we devote the utmost attention to the question of digital content.
We shall be investing many millions of euros in the Net infrastructure; by the year 2003 it is expected that there will be more than a billion mobile phones in the world, and 85% of the European population will be using the Internet.
I believe that many young university graduates and well-qualified young people from schools, colleges and companies are well able to start up new businesses in the domain of digital content and that this domain offers us new opportunities, including opportunities for cross-border cooperation with the countries applying for EU membership, because in countries where there are already numerous experts, training standards are quite high.
If we want Europe to be a knowledge society, then we need to use the European digital content programme as our central reference point and as the main platform on which we base our design of this knowledge and information society.
On the other hand, we have the communications networks which need a constant supply of content in order to fill their web pages and which see nothing wrong in subordinating the content, in ransoming it and using it without paying any particular attention to the rules of production.
The networks have cast themselves in the role of protagonist and are using the content without any discretion and often without any respect.
A Europe of knowledge must not excite competition with the United States and thereby destroy the important structures of its symbolic capital, because this is what differentiates it, this is where its wealth, quality and pluralism lie.
The much-vaunted cultural and linguistic diversity of Europe is indeed a frequent barrier, especially in the context of the single market.
The Greens are in favour of the report as adopted in committee.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as everyone has been saying this evening, the programme we are debating is designed to help establish a large European market for digital content, accessible to both industry and the general public.
I want to emphasise the importance of the objective of promoting multilingualism in digital content on the world networks, particularly for European languages.
I also want to say how important it is for citizens of the European Union to be able to develop professionally, socially and culturally and how important it is to avoid, in this area, the creation of that digital divide to which we refer so often in our debates.
We are therefore concerned here with a programme and a report which are very important both from economic and employment points of view and, once Parliament has voted on it, I want to see the programme quickly adopted by the Telecommunications Council which, I believe, is due to meet on 22 December.
Before I conclude, allow me to raise a final important point, a final question addressed to the Commission.
If, on this issue of a digital divide, everyone is aware of the risk of seeing rifts open up between citizens, the Commission' s proposals are, in my view, not enough to prevent this from happening.
That is why I support the amendments calling for specific steps to be taken in the field of new technologies.
In as much as I too am the rapporteur for one of the reports on the Telecom package, I think it is important for Europe to make arrangements and propose to us programmes for.... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their support for the Commission proposal.
This means the appearance of personalised and localised services that respond to what consumers want, where they want, but the consumers are probably only willing to pay for this content if it is available in a culturally customised format and in their own language.
The budget proposed by the Commission is EUR 150 m over five years.
I would like to thank Parliament for its strong support for the budget of the programme.
Let me comment on some of the amendments proposed by Parliament.
First, on the social and cultural function of digital content, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament emphasises the social and cultural dimension of digital content.
The Commission supports these amendments which bring out this dimension even more clearly than in its original formulation.
We intend to make maximum use of these measures and reduce as much as possible the time between the presentation of a project proposal and a decision on its financing.
The remaining 11 are not directly compatible with the objectives of this specific programme, or would stretch its mandate beyond what can be achieved with the financial means associated with it.
Some of them are indeed very valuable in themselves but are better placed in other instruments than in the present decision.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Surely it must be possible for this House to make improvements on this report by means of a referral back.
Thank you, Mrs Oomen.
You know that such a proposal can be submitted either on behalf of a group, or by at least 32 Members.
If a group would like to vote against, it has of course every right to do so, but we must also give others the opportunity to vote in favour and let the democratic process run its course.
We will now vote on the proposal to refer the pending report back to committee. (Referral back of the report to committee was rejected) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, noise is disturbing an increasing number of people in Europe.
In my own country, the Netherlands, this is 40%.
Noise, especially at night, annoys more and more people.
Eight years ago, the Commission promised to come forward with legislative proposals for European harmonised noise indicators before 1994 and for EU-wide noise standards before 1995.
Only this year, six years overdue, and under enormous pressure from the French Government, has the Commission at last proposed European harmonised noise indicators.
Those proposals are sound.
Lnight is an efficient indicator for sleep disturbance and the overall noise indicator Lden is probably the best in its field.
This indicator sets 12 hours for the day, 4 hours for the evening and 8 hours for the night.
Noise at night is calculated times 10 and noise in the evening times 5.
The night should be eight hours long and that is of key importance, because at Frankfurt airport, the night is still only 6 hours long, compared to 6.5 hours at Heathrow and 7 hours at Schiphol.
The Environmental Committee' s most controversial proposal is to develop a daughter directive on aircraft noise at this early stage.
In this proposal, the Environmental Committee lays down specific standards for the years 2006, 2012 and 2020.
But major airports, such as Heathrow, Frankfurt and Paris will need to make considerable efforts to meet the initial set of standards by 2006.
At present, exactly the same noisy aircraft land in the middle of the night at the airport of Liège, 60 km south of Maastricht.
Despite this, noise was not considered a serious environmental problem for a long time.
The Commission does not have the courage to set European standards but aims in the first instance only to harmonise the noise pollution indicators.
Our group has welcomed this suggestion with open arms.
Airports such as Orly, Schiphol and Barcelona already meet strict requirements.
Discrepancies may lead to a situation where an airport on one side of the border, for example Maastricht, is not allowed to expand, while 50 km down the road, a new airport is built in Bierset without any restrictions.
Mr President, the Commission's Green Paper on future noise-abatement policy, which appeared in 1996, stated that 20% of the population of Western Europe, in other words almost 80 million people, were exposed to noise levels that the experts deemed to be intolerable.
That is why the reduction and prevention of ambient noise will feature prominently in future European environment policies.
The harmonisation of noise-measurement procedures and the production of action plans by the Member States are good things but are not enough to satisfy us.
We call on the Commission to present proposals for daughter directives and to do so within 18 months of the entry into force of the framework directive.
My group, however, does not support the rapporteur's intention to use the directive to introduce limit values for ambient noise in the vicinity of airports.
Now that it has transpired in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy that our more far-reaching wishes cannot count on the support of the two major groups, I hope that at least the rapporteur' s moderate proposals will secure a majority.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many citizens of the European Union for whom quality of life is just a mirage.
Unfortunately, more and more European citizens are being affected by environmental noise.
Despite this, however, the European Union has been slow to apply a common policy on the subject of noise.
It is unacceptable that we should have to wait five more years to set the noise limits to be applied throughout the European Union.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur, Mr De Roo, when he proposes that we should waste no more time and transform this directive on the assessment and management of noise into a binding framework directive.
The lack of common standards in the European Union has caused situations of clearly unfair competition between airports and a lack of equality among the citizens of different Member States.
I believe, however, that Amendment No 36 is not the most sensible way to go about this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Roo, in very many ways, this directive is unique, really, for the simple reason that noise and the disturbance it causes are actually being recognised for the first time as a social and ecological problem.
Credit should go to the rapporteur, in the first instance, and the support he has received in committee.
That is why, in my opinion, the amendments tabled by Mr Bernd Lange are so important.
Mr President, Spain has supported and continues to support the policy of combating noise in general and in particular supports this Community directive, as well as the good work of Mr De Roo.
The Commission proposal, in point 1 of Annex 1, intends to systematically add on five decibels for all noise created between 7.00 p.m.
I will therefore not hide the fact that it will be very difficult for my country to accept the Commission' s proposal, unless it incorporates a sufficient mechanism for flexibility so that we can maintain the way of life that we inherited from our ancestors and, furthermore, which is so valued both by the Spanish themselves and by our foreign visitors.
So far, the formulae for flexibility that have been proposed consist of transferring part of the four hours of the mandatory evening to siesta time.
But this mechanism is of no use, since, unfortunately, people do not sleep siestas all year in Spain and it is not even slept in the whole of Spain.
Elements of flexibility could be the option of reducing either the number of hours or the degree of nuisance which the proposal assigns to those evening hours.
We therefore support Amendment No 48 by Mr Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Florenz.
We cannot get away from that and we really require a step-by-step, calculated approach to dealing with the problems of noise in every locality, in every place and in every cultural situation within the Union and elsewhere.
I would nevertheless commend the report and of course the Commission's proposal to the House.
That, in principle, was the idea behind Amendment No 36, although I believe the idea has not been fully developed yet.
One thing is crystal-clear, Mrs Scheele: you are still very young, but however many years you spend in Parliament, you will never get a daughter directive on aviation noise!
But to my great regret, Mr de Roo, I have to say that your good intention is probably dead in the water already.
Secondly, we need daughter directives which establish quality standards.
The European railways alone estimate that they will need to spend EUR 20 million on the noise maps, which is the Commission's assessment of the entire cost of implementing the directive.
I should also like to emphasise that small and medium-sized businesses cannot possibly afford the cost of producing these noise maps.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to speak on this important framework directive even though I would have appreciated a few weeks maybe until the January plenary session to have a proper dialogue with all the parties involved as that would have made for sounder legislation in the end.
Nonetheless I welcome the framework directive and certainly, before the specific points contained in Amendment No 36 and others were introduced, it would have been welcome all round this House.
This is the first directive that deals with ambient noise as distinct from noise from a particular common source and that is to be welcomed.
We cannot bounce people or communities or industries into specific standards without proper dialogue and consultation.
Could I also ask whether the Commission could refer to the business impact assessment, which I am assuming they carried out on this proposal as is required under the Treaty.
I would fully support the need to harmonise noise indicators and assessment methods; the whole area of noise maps; the drawing up of action plans to reduce noise and protect quiet areas as appropriate and to broaden the whole scope for information to the public.
Firstly, because we already have market access legislation which set limit values for many road vehicle types and for equipment used outdoors.
It would be simpler and quicker to tighten the noise standards in the existing legislation than to introduce new daughter directives.
Secondly, this proposal uses a new approach to assess the overall noise situation in Europe in terms of numbers of people who are disturbed by noise.
It is impossible at the moment, because we use such a large variety of indicators and assessment methods, to characterise noise in different Member States.
A particular problem is the noise around airports.
Because of commercial competitiveness between airports and between aviation manufacturers it has not been possible to obtain correct and verified noise levels.
Once Member States have provided the comparable information then the Commission will consider the question of Community limit values and other measures to reduce the numbers of people affected by noise and report back to the Council and Parliament.
As a general means of improving the situation, we propose that authorities in Member States should produce action plans in close consultation with the public.
I am grateful to Members for their amendments strengthening the text and public participation, which we wholeheartedly accept.
Our first priority is to produce strategic noise maps using standardised indicators and assess all types of noise to give us an accurate picture of the number of people who are suffering and where.
Our first report on the directive is due to be submitted to Parliament in 2007.
A five-yearly review process will then ensure that Members have a continued input.
I hope we can now agree a positive way forward with a view to achieving a common position with the Council next week.
As far as the amendments are concerned, the Commission has considered 49 amendments and is able to accept 25 of them fully or in part.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1 to 3, 14, 18, 27, 30, 34, 35 and 43.
The Commission cannot accept the other amendments.
To conclude I would like to thank European Parliament for the detailed consideration it has given to this proposal and for the many helpful amendments which have been contributed.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
I shall explain why.
At first reading, we in fact adopted five amendments, including two that were essential.
The first was designed not to authorise the use of ethyl hydroxyethyl cellulose - rather a complex scientific expression, I am afraid - or E 467 as a new food additive.
First of all, there are in general three criteria according to which a new additive is either admitted or rejected.
The first criterion is technological need.
The second criterion is usefulness to the consumer.
Moreover, additives cannot, in general, be used, as in the present case, for unprocessed foodstuffs which have not undergone treatment involving a significant change to their original state.
The third criterion is harmlessness.
According to all the scientific literature and the Scientific Committee for Human Food, this additive is innocuous, but it has a laxative effect which is considered to be negligible in the small quantity ingested.
The synergy between all these additives with a laxative effect has not been assessed.
These are the three criteria.
There are at present 307 food additives on the European market, 163 of which are perfectly innocuous.
There are always problems of synergy.
We know that the Commission is preparing a new directive on additives.
For several reasons, and this is where he performs such a singular service in our debates.
With regard to the amendment on the use of sodium alginate the proposal to extend this use to pre-packed peeled carrots was made by the Commission in its original proposal in July 1999.
I made every effort to ensure that the European Commission can act independently in emergencies and certainly in cases where public and animal health are under threat, so without having to consult the Member States.
The negotiations also meant that - and I view this as a personal victory for this Parliament - the safeguard measures issued by the Commission remain in force as long as they are not replaced by another legislative decision.
A second problem was that the Member States rather disliked our requirement to provide for the possibility of unannounced inspections.
She deserves all our support in this.
The inspection of foodstuffs and animal feed, however, is the prerogative of the Member States.
Member States and the Commission now have a better instrument available to ensure that Community legislation in animal nutrition is properly enforced and, in the event of emergencies in third countries, rapid reactions are possible.
Thank you, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
In a nutshell, this commitment for a Community framework will hopefully, with the agreement of the Commission and the Council, put a legal base under existing schemes being pursued by networks of local and regional authorities which are actively promoting sustainable urban development.
I hope that sustainable urban development will form a vital part of this sustainable development strategy.
Mr President, the European sustainable cities and towns campaign, which is made up of an alliance of 540 different local authorities, has committed itself to implementing local policies and actions geared towards promoting sustainability.
It is really a question of putting in place best practices which can in a real sense develop our towns and cities in a positive manner.
In Ireland, urban renewal programmes are making a significant contribution to the upgrading of small towns and villages.
EU structural funds, mainly through the ESF, as well as national exchequer finances, must always be focused on developing disadvantaged and poorer areas in our society.
The planning process must be implemented in a fair and innovative manner.
The proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council, adopted by the European Commission on 22 November 1999 and on a Community Framework for cooperation to promote sustainable urban development, follows on from the 'European Sustainable Cities and Towns Campaign' , launched in 1992.
The state of the urban environment, in which approximately 80% of the European population resides, is a fundamental topic of concern which has repercussions at local, European and world levels.
A coherent and sustainable approach to urban development policies may, however, significantly improve the quality of life in cities and towns.
Indeed, the concept of sustainable development, particularly in the case of cities and towns, is not, and cannot be, limited solely to the environmental aspect, but also embraces social and economic aspects.
The appropriations would be mainly allocated to networks of towns and cities organised at European level and in order to support their activities in the field of development and the dissemination of good practices where sustainable urban development is concerned.
The 2000-2004 multiannual programme for sustainable development in the urban environment is an appropriate instrument for achieving this end, and the implementation of Agenda 21 is an excellent way of coordinating and developing actions.
Furthermore, the report on sustainable cities highlights the existence of significant shortcomings in the practice and in the development of environmental legislation at a local level.
The multiannual plan has ambitious objectives and a very broad scope, which can be extended to the candidate countries.
Thank you Mr President.
The towns and cities themselves have many of the instruments available to them, which help to improve the environment for their own citizens.
There needs to be a clear dialogue and good cooperation between the institutions of the Union and those acting at local level, that is the municipalities or towns and cities.
This proposal on sustainable urban development has the potential of having a direct effect on the daily lives as many as 80% of the European population.
The Commission is also grateful for the substantial support which the European Parliament has provided for this proposal and for the many helpful amendments which have been put forward.
The Commission recognises the importance of promoting good governance and transparency in its decision-making process.
Its innovative approach will involve cooperation with the city networks, Member States, EU institutions, NGOs and the business community, ensuring that the funds provided from the framework are targeted at those areas of sustainable development most in need of them.
I believe that this innovative approach will provide an example for others to follow.
The budget for this proposal has been the subject of some debate with a wide range of views expressed about the appropriateness of the EUR 12.4 m originally proposed by the Commission.
The Commission wants to stress however that this framework is not about the implementation of projects at ground level.
Rather, the framework is designed to facilitate the sharing of information and ideas about the best practice of sustainable urban development so that the solutions identified to problems in one city or town can be shared with the other cities and towns throughout Europe and beyond.
The quality approach of the framework and its multiplier effects are such that despite the relatively small budget it is expected to have a real impact on the promotion of sustainable urban development in Europe.
The forty-one amendments have been given detailed consideration and the Commission is able to accept thirty of them, either completely or in principle.
Amendment No 33 proposes a revised budget for the proposal of EUR 14 m.
We must make it clear that the Commission's general line on such matters is that no budget increase can be accepted without additional resources being transferred by the Council and Parliament to the relevant budget lines.
In this specific instance, however, and on the basis that it will facilitate the adoption at first reading, the Commission has exceptionally agreed to accept an increase of the financial scope of the proposal to EUR 14 m without the provision of additional resources.
While we are willing to support a figure of EUR 14 m we cannot support a figure of EUR 20 m as proposed by Amendment No 14.
So, to conclude, the Commission can fully accept Amendments Nos 2, 5 to 8, 10 to 13, 15, 16, 18 to 20, 22 to 24, 28, 30, 32 to 35 and 37.
The Commission can in principle accept Amendments Nos 25, 27, 36, 40 and 41.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 9, 14, 17, 21, 26, 31, 38 and 39.
It is intended that the main partners in this framework should be the Commission and networks of local authorities whose legal responsibility is to develop and implement policies of sustainable urban development.
Finally, I would like to thank the European Parliament for the detailed consideration it has given to this proposal and for the valuable input provided by all parties.
It has undoubtedly strengthened and improved the quality of the proposal and, as a consequence, helped to ensure that it will deliver the maximum possible benefit to cities and towns throughout the EU and further afield.
I am also happy that the spirit of the interinstitutional cooperation has been such that the adoption of this proposal at first reading should be secure.
Thank you, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
All this demonstrates the major political stakes involved in the issue of the precautionary principle and, in this connection, I welcome the Commission' s initiative, as well as the general quality of its communication on this precautionary principle.
In order to explain the result I should like our Parliament to arrive at, I should like this evening quickly to underline two key aspects of this debate.
The first issue raised by the report we are debating is of a legal nature.
A good many treaties and international agreements refer to it.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities and even the WTO' s dispute settlement bodies consider that the precautionary principle is applicable in environmental or public health issues, occasionally even against the Europeans, as may be seen from the case (still pending) of cheese produced from milk straight from the cow.
However, these references in international texts are not enough to specify either its nature or its legal value, especially since such texts do not include any definition of the precautionary principle.
The first key task of the Commission' s communication and of Parliament' s report is therefore to specify the character and the legal value we wish to accord the precautionary principle, to define the conditions in which the precautionary principle may and must be applied and, finally, to determine the criteria to be fulfilled by the measures taken in application of the precautionary principle.
The second key task in our work on the precautionary principle is of a more political nature.
The text produced by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is the result of an ongoing search for a compromise or, rather, a balance between the maximalist and minimalist tendencies which were expressed in the course of our discussions, both of which result in excesses.
Faced with these two approaches, I have endeavoured to arrive at a fair balance so that this political tool might be used within a legal framework.
The European Union' s ambition is to guarantee its citizens a high level of protection where their health and the environment are concerned.
In connection with BSE, a great deal of past and future heartache would have been spared if we had armed ourselves with adequate legislation in good time and if we had verified compliance with such legislation, which, as we know, is a matter for the Member States.
We must ensure that this report echoes public demands for a high level of protection for health and the environment.
Essentially, use of the precautionary principle can be seen as a risk management strategy in the face of scientific uncertainty or a tool to allow the involvement of the public decision-making authority in managing scientific uncertainty.
The public no longer wants to bear the brunt of hazardous technological innovations which several or many years later prove to have entailed unnecessary risk to public health or the environment.
The way to restore consumers' confidence in industry generally is to adopt clear and precise rules in the light of the precautionary principle.
In all cases measures must be taken, must be regularly reviewed in the light of scientific developments.
There should be an absolute requirement for transparency in all cases involving regular provision of information to the public, including when a project or activity has been given the green light.
Mr President, the precautionary principle is gaining more ground in the international Treaties.
The precautionary principle is a political response to the risks within society.
The precautionary principle must also apply to products and substances which are already available and in use, as well as to production methods.
The present situation is taken as a point of departure and that leads to conservatism and resistance to anything new.
In this way, we are distancing ourselves from the United States and large sections of the rest of the world.
So I am pleased to see that the final report reflects the need for further elaboration of the concept.
It is a very positive sign that the Council text says that it considers that the WTO rules basically allow for account to be taken of the precautionary principle, and further that it calls on Member States and the Commission to ensure that, and I quote, "the precautionary principle is fully recognised in all trade fora to pursue that aim and ensure that it is taken into account at the same time, particularly at the World Trade Organisation".
The idea of compatibility between a precautionary principle and the World Trade Organisation seems to be gaining ground and that is to be welcomed.
I fully share the Commission' s position when it defines the precautionary principle as a general principle with unlimited scope.
Just like many MEPs, I'm sure, I was pleasantly surprised at the Council's resolution from the European Council meeting in Nice which states that the precautionary principle should be applied as quickly as possible after harmful effects to health and the environment have been established and if reliable conclusions concerning the level of risk cannot be reached on the basis of a preliminary scientific investigation based on the information available.
Instead, we ought to try to strengthen the text further to show that we are at least as progressive as the Council.
Amendment No 9 is very important.
Mr President, as the rapporteur points out very effectively, the cautionary or precautionary principle - even though the rapporteur differentiates between the two - is laid down in several international agreements, ranging from Rio 1992, to the protection of the North Sea and, more recently, in the Montreal Biosecurity Protocol.
Firstly, that there is no minimum threshold of risk below which the precautionary principle must not be applied and, consequently, even in cases where there is little risk, it would have to be used.
Secondly, that transparency and consumer information are very important and necessary to the whole process of assessment and risk management.
And lastly, that public health and the environment must be given priority over all other considerations, particularly financial considerations.
If things had been done in this way, Mr President, I do not believe that we would now be lamenting the disease suffered by mad cows, or that we would be lamenting certain other examples of food contamination whose future effects are still unknown.
However, the substances and materials in these products, as well as many kinds of foodstuffs, can carry risks.
In order to apply the precautionary principle, it is absolutely essential to provide a scientific basis for the concern about possible harmful effects.
In addition, it is important for us to give due consideration to the protection level we have opted for, which can largely be deduced from the legislation we have drafted.
Mr President, the precautionary principle has become one of the citizen' s greatest allies in defending public health and the environment.
But allow me to denounce what I see as a flagrant example of the lack of coherence in the use of the precautionary principle in the European Union: I am talking about mobile telephones.
Only yesterday in Lisbon, the American professor, George Carlo, who for the last seven years has been entrusted by the Food and Drugs Administration with a study on the effect of the radiation on human health, revealed at first hand that there is the risk that the use of mobile phones might promote the appearance of brain tumours, Alzheimer' s disease and skin lesions.
Our task is to create the framework required to protect both the environment and the health of people and animals.
The precautionary principle does not look the same in our respective countries.
However, what we need to do now is to create a common precautionary principle at EU level.
In my opinion, the precautionary principle is quite simply about the law and not least the duty to intervene with sufficient and necessary resources on the basis of a suspicion or a probable suspicion that a substance or a process may cause irreparable damage to the environment and health.
Those who cannot live without the substance or process in question must demonstrate that it can exist without resulting in permanent damage.
However, this was precisely what was done in connection with the BSE scandal and that was why the catastrophe hit England and now also France, which had been given all the signals that BSE was present and still did not want to apply the precautionary principle.
Similarly, in line with transparency, let us ensure that producers on a small or industrial scale have the right to express and defend their views by having their opinions and comments included in the assessment reports, in the same way as those of the scientists whose conclusions appear to have been brushed aside.
The principle and approach is often referred to at national, European and global level when questions related to human health and the environment are discussed.
The precautionary principle was also discussed at the Nice Summit, which took note of a resolution adopted by the General Affairs Council.
The resolution calls on the Commission to use the guidelines adopted and to incorporate the precautionary principle whenever necessary in drawing up its legislative proposals and in all its actions.
The resolution also highlights the need to work actively for a commitment by international partners to reach an understanding on the application of the principle.
The Commission communication is not the final word on the issue.
I therefore welcome Parliament's motion for a resolution on this important issue and would like to comment on some of the points it raises.
Regarding its implications at international level, in particular within the World Trade Organisation, the Commission considers that the precautionary principle is becoming a full-fledged rule of customary international law with all the rights attached to it.
This entitles the Community to prescribe the level of protection notably with regard to the environment and human, animal and plant health which it considers appropriate.
However, I would like to clarify some points.
Concerning the eventual withdrawal of a product on the basis of process or production methods, it is not possible to make any general statement on the legitimacy of such an action prior to a comprehensive risk assessment.
The distinction made in the resolution between the precautionary principle and prudence would need to be more precise.
The prudential approach is part of risk assessment policy and is an integral part of the scientific opinion delivered by the risk evaluators.
On the other hand, application of the precautionary principle is part of risk management.
It is important to stress that it is for the decision-makers to define the level of protection.
It is not possible to provide a general de minimis threshold.
The Commission considers that the motion for a resolution is balanced on this issue and does not support Amendment No 3.
Finally, the burden of proof may be reversed on a case-by-case evaluation.
To conclude, I would like to thank Parliament for its support in addressing this issue.
The motion for resolution will help foster a general understanding of the precautionary principle both within the Community and internationally.
Thank you, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
Only recently, the European Parliament adopted a declaration on terrorism in Spain.
This declaration was signed personally by 413 MEPs of all nationalities and all political affiliations.
It is imposed upon a whole society in an attempt to destroy a political system which has been democratically chosen by that country' s citizens.
Our European Community is above all a community of values based on respect for the rule of law.
The European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which we proclaimed in Nice as recently as 7 December 2000, bears witness to this.
I also want to tell them how their dignity in adversity and lack of personal vengefulness merit our deepest admiration.
This distinction is all the more notable given that we are not a prestigious NGO nor a veteran institutional movement, but simply a group of citizens of varying backgrounds, with no bureaucratic hierarchy nor even an organisational apparatus, who began working together a little less than a year ago.
There is no question that the Basques suffered considerable violations of their political and cultural liberty during the Franco dictatorship, as did all the other citizens of Spain.
There have now been more than 700 people killed during the democratic era.
Today, in the Basque Country, there is no security or freedom of expression or political association for the majority of citizens.
Non-nationalist elected officials are murdered, as well as businesspeople, journalists, members of the security forces or private individuals who have expressed themselves in any way against the project to impose independence.
We, the members of the 'Basta Ya' initiative, know that ETA is, without doubt, the main culprit behind these evils.
However, we are also convinced that ETA is not an isolated phenomenon, and that it is perpetuated as a result of a political climate which is partly the fault of the nationalist authorities who have governed the country for more than 20 years.
Naturally, we accept that Basque nationalists can propose, by peaceful means, the creation of a new independent state that has never before existed, but we reject the idea that this political project from a particular party should be presented as the inalienable right of a whole people, and therefore become an indirect justification for violence.
We want to live in peace, but we also want to live in freedom.
