Opening of international negotiations in view of adopting an international treaty for the protection of the Arctic (debate) The next item is the Council and the Commission statements on the opening of international negotiations in view of adopting an international Treaty for the protection of the Arctic.
This report highlighted the new strategic interest in the Arctic region.
The Commission subsequently presented a communication on the EU and the Arctic region last November.
This last point was covered in last October's resolution.
The Council agreed with the Commission that the EU should aim to preserve the Arctic in cooperation with its population and that it should address Arctic challenges in a systematic and coordinated manner.
It considered that the goals of the EU could only be achieved in close cooperation with all Arctic partner countries, territories and communities, and also noted the intergovernmental cooperation in the region.
The Council specifically stressed the importance of multilateral cooperation in conformity with the relevant international conventions and highlighted, in particular, the UNCLOS.
The communication focuses on three broad goals: protecting and preserving the Arctic, in full cooperation with its inhabitants; promoting the sustainable use of resources; and beefing up multilateral governance.
Through the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and other general conventions, there is already an extensive international legal framework in place.
It lays down that coastal states exercise control over an area up to 200 miles from their coasts and have economic rights over the resources of the seabeds, but this area can be extended if the states can prove that the continental shelves extend beyond 200 miles.
They have until May 2009 - and that is very close - to put a request of this kind to the UN.
The North Pole is a global asset that must be protected by a binding charter, in which the European Union must play a leading role.
The treaty is perhaps more symbolic, but what we do insist upon is working with - and respecting - the nations and, more particularly, the peoples of the Arctic.
We should build on the work of the Arctic Council.
The Arctic is quite different in many ways from the Antarctic, and it was only a few months ago, on 8 October 2008, that I spoke to this House on this very topic.
The Arctic, as I said then, plays an increasingly important geostrategic role in our world, and over the past decade several critical issues have emerged in this region.
Apart from this, the EU counts amongst its Member States no less than three Arctic nations along with two other EEA neighbours, accounting for more than half the numeric membership of the Arctic Council.
The Arctic is critical for global climate, and for this reason alone we must be part of a new style of governance for this beautiful and - as the previous speaker said - one of the last wildernesses of our world. (ES) The Arctic region is one of the most fragile on our planet.
It is time for the European Parliament to make its position clear, as it has taken almost no part in this debate until now, with the exception of our resolution, passed in October last year, calling for an international treaty for the protection of the Arctic.
I fully support our draft proposal that the Commission and the Council should work towards establishing a moratorium on the exploitation of the geological resources in the Arctic for a period of 50 years, pending fresh scientific studies.
It is only the sea in the middle that has international status and in this regard the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) forms the relevant legal basis.
This should constitute the basis for an Arctic policy, which needs to be developed in a comprehensive manner.
In the conclusion we say that the objectives of the EU could only be achieved in close cooperation with the Arctic countries, and the EU should enforce its participation in conformity with the current international conventions.
This decision, which is due on 29 April - i.e.
The European Union has to take this into account when we want to develop even stronger cooperation for the benefit of the Arctic, its inhabitants and its wildlife.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 2 April 2009.
