Improvement needed in the legal framework for access to documents following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty (debate) The next item is the joint debate on - the oral question to the Council by Michael Cashman, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on improving the legal framework for access to documents after the Lisbon Treaty enters into effect - B7-0230/2009); the oral question to the Commission by Michael Cashman, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on improving the legal framework for access to documents after the Lisbon Treaty enters into effect - B7-0231/2009) author. - Mr President, can I start by saying that it is very good to see Commissioner Wallström in the room, as well as Cecilia Malmström, from the Presidency-in-Office, because we were both engaged in this dossier from the outset, in 1999.
I want to thank in particular the Commissioner and, if I may, my dear former colleague, Cecilia Malmström, for that commitment.
I believe that the revision the Commission placed before Parliament, on which we subsequently voted in committee and the first reading of which was deferred in March of this year, did not go far enough, and I know we have a difference of opinion on this.
All of these institutions are now accountable under Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
This morning, I had the great pleasure of meeting with Commission Vice-President, Margot Wallström, and Parliament's Vice-President, Diana Wallis, in the Interinstitutional Committee on Public Access to Documents.
I am pleased that the Treaty of Lisbon places a great deal of importance on transparency, public scrutiny and democracy.
The Commission has announced that it will bring a proposal before Parliament and the Council with a view to adapting the present Transparency Regulation to the new provisions of the treaty.
I would like to remind Parliament that my colleague, Beatrice Ask, who is the Swedish Minister for Justice, explained to the Committee on Civil liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on 2 September 2009, at the beginning of the Swedish Presidency, that she was prepared to initiate discussions between the institutions.
She asked specifically whether the newly-elected Parliament intended to continue working on the basis of the 92 amendments that had been adopted by Parliament in March 2009.
I also think that we have a great deal of credibility, being Swedish, both Cecilia Malmström and myself, and I do not think that people will doubt that we will continue to fight for openness and transparency.
I know that I share this view, as you could hear, with the Minister.
Now I really want to thank Parliament for the opportunity to have this debate on transparency and the new Lisbon Treaty because it places more emphasis on openness and what is called participatory democracy.
This issue was addressed by the Commission in our Communication on 2 December this year.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has not, in my opinion, brought about such a change in the legal basis of the dossier that it has resulted in a change in the role of the European Parliament.
This is required, for example, in the context of international agreements by third parties as a conditio sine qua non.
We have received a good response from the Commission and the Council and we should continue on this basis, in other words, the response to our oral question.
Indeed, I had thought that all the political groups in this House were agreed upon the resolution.
As the Vice-President of this House responsible for transparency, I have not always found it an easy subject, but I do believe that now we have the chance to do better and to reach out even further to our citizens.
So my group - and I believe all the groups - have agreed to amendments that will reflect today's progress.
Ladies and gentlemen, this debate hinges on a question of trust.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the European Union has, in my country and elsewhere too, a richly deserved reputation for taking its decisions furtively, secretly and surreptitiously.
The Treaty of Lisbon endorses this fundamental right of EU citizens.
Mr President, the legislation concerning public access to documents, in other words, what we are referring to here as Regulation (EC) No 1049, has served us well.
Thank you very much Mr Cashman and Parliament for raising this issue.
On that positive note - I really want it to be a positive note - I would like to thank you all and I also want to use the opportunity to say 'Merry Christmas and Happy New Year' to all of you.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 December 2009.
The currently prevailing Regulation No 1049/2001 ensures appropriate access to EU documents, but with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009, we have been faced with an exceptional challenge, in which the role and real participation of EU citizens has increased.
