The current situation relating to the European Union's southern maritime borders was debated in the Council of 12 June.
Secondly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to express great concern at the inadequacy of the 2 June agreements.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) I would firstly like to thank the honourable Member for his kind words in wishing the Portuguese Presidency good luck.
I would like to say that this is a question that the Portuguese Presidency considers not just important, but in fact a priority.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) The honourable Member has raised a highly pertinent question in the context of the changes under way in the European labour market in the light of the Lisbon Strategy.
We would also point out that the Council moreover reiterated its commitment regarding family-orientated policies, including childcare, in the conclusions adopted on 30 May 2007 on the importance of family-orientated policies in Europe and the creation of an Alliance for Families.
The conference will be held in Lisbon on 12 and 13 July 2007, beginning, therefore, tomorrow. (EL) I too welcome the new Presidency and thank the representative of the Portuguese Presidency for his reply.
Of course the 12 and 13 July are tomorrow and the next day.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) I thank the honourable Member for her kind words in wishing success for the Portuguese Presidency.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) The Council is disappointed that an agreement could not be reached on this issue in the session held in Luxemburg on 12 and 13 June, despite the analysis and adoption of this framework decision having been a priority not only for the German Presidency but also for the preceding presidencies since the presentation of the Commission proposal to the Council on 28 April 2004.
In this context, I would like to remind the honourable Member that on 1 and 2 June 2006 the Council agreed the principles that should govern subsequent work on this proposal.
At its session of 15 and 16 June 2006, the Council called for negotiations on the procedural rights in criminal proceedings to be concluded.
At its session of 19 April 2007, the Council concluded that work on this question should continue, with a view to obtaining a consensus on the scope of the instrument at the June European Council.
The question to be resolved was whether the Union had competence to legislate on purely national cases or whether the legislation - and I would point out that at least 21 Member States shared this opinion - should be applied solely to cross-border cases.
At this moment we are analysing the content of the dossier resulting from the Council debates of 12 and 13 June 2007.
As the author is not present, Question No 4 lapses.
Question No 6 will not be answered, given that the issue with which it deals is already on today's agenda.
Questions Nos 9 and 10 will not be called as the issue with which they deal is already on today's agenda.
Questions Nos 11 to 13 have been withdrawn.
Questions Nos 14 to 18 lapse, as the authors are not present.
This was made clear once again, as you know, in the conclusions of the European Council of 8 and 9 March 2007, conclusions that may almost be considered historic in this respect.
The honourable Member should be in no doubt that the urgency and importance of energy issues mean that this Presidency, and other future presidencies, will be giving them absolute priority in the Union's internal and external agendas.
Questions nos 21 to 24 lapse as the authors are not present.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) Mr President, I would like to say that it is not the Council's responsibility, nor that of the President-in-Office, to comment on the Intergovernmental Conference mandate resulting from the European Council negotiations in June, in particular the matter of the Charter.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) I would like to add that the Portuguese Presidency received a mandate from the Council, a mandate agreed upon by all 27 Member States.
