Protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users (debate) The next item is the report by Francesco Ferrari, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users - C6-0331/2007 -.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end point of this Regulation on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users.
The aim of the Regulation is to change the safety requirements for pedestrians and other vulnerable road users in the event of injuries resulting from a collision with a motor vehicle.
The scope of the Regulation is significant because it has incorporated two previous directives, one from 2003 and the other from 2005.
The second directive relates to the use of frontal protection systems on vehicles and indicates various levels of protection for vulnerable road users in the event of a collision with vehicles equipped with such systems.
The greatest victory, though, has probably been succeeding in making the instrument applicable within 24 months of the Regulation's entry into force to all categories of car, from small cars to SUVs and to vehicles of a larger size which often, because of their large weights, are the ones that cause the most physical damage to citizens.
The 2005 Directive, in fact, will be incorporated through this regulation, and thus cars that decide to install 'bull bars' will not obtain approval if the safety requirements for frontal protection systems do not provide the same level of safety as that laid down for vehicles without frontal protection systems.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of pedestrians aims to minimise the effects of collisions between pedestrians and motor vehicles.
This puts motor vehicle manufacturers under enormous pressure.
This is an important dossier that, being very technical, may not make the headlines, but will help prevent the loss of a great many human lives and the resulting family tragedies.
Last year, a staggering 43 000 people lost their lives on Europe's roads and, as the Commissioner has already said, 8 000 of them were pedestrians, vulnerable road users.
This limit, in most EU Member States, is 100 km/h on the motorway, and 50 km/h in built-up areas.
We must ask ourselves how necessary and wise it is for our vehicles to be able to accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h in five or six seconds, and how important and legal it is for our vehicles to be capable of doing more than 200 km/h, if the relevant speed limit is only 100 km/h?
I should also like to commend the rapporteur on pressing for BAS - Break Assist systems - to be made standard in cars without delay, to help drivers stop in time.
However, we need to go down to 40 km/h for this to make sense.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, road deaths are reported in the media on a daily basis.
Car accidents, pedestrians struck by cars on the roads - each death a tragedy in its own right, then at the end of the year these deaths become statistics.
It is our responsibility, both Member States and the Union, to try to reduce those statistics and to protect our citizens from such tragedies.
More than 8,000 people die from accidents on European roads each year.
The responsibility lies with us, as legislators, and we must stand together if we are to achieve our target.
In towns and cities, areas that used to be the domain of pedestrians, children playing, trees, parks, gardens or free-standing tram tracks were converted into space for cars between 1950 and 1980.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, the report by Mr Ferrari concerns the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users.
On the other hand, we must beware of slipping into a situation in which we attempt to reduce road risks to zero, as it is impossible to exclude all risks.
For all the measures that are being taken in this policy area, it should be emphasised that road users themselves remain primarily responsible for their own safety and that of their fellow road users.
In addition, I welcome the fact that amendments to Article 11 are to be made via the codecision procedure.
Thank you very much! (RO) In 2007, approximately 43,000 people died in the Union and approximately 1.7 million people were injured in road accidents.
Every year, 8,000 participants in road traffic as pedestrians or cyclists die in road accidents.
Every year, other approximately 300,000 people, pedestrians or cyclists, are injured in road traffic.
In very many countries, like Poland, this is also a matter for rural areas, where each day there are a great many movements of individuals in areas next to highways.
In addition to continuously improving active safety technologies, manufacturers must also devote ongoing attention to developing passive safety measures, since both are needed in order to achieve the goals that have been set out.
I am confident that in the future our common policy concerning roads in the European Union will improve the quality of road control and monitoring. (SK) Statistics show that every year as many as 8 000 pedestrians and cyclists are killed and 300 000 are injured on our roads.
There is, for example, the estimated 33 months lead-time for the implementation of BAS (Brake Assist System) for cars, although the implementation process is really fairly simple.
Last but not least, I am convinced that limiting car traffic in town centres and the use of public transport and bicycles are important indirect ways in which each of us can contribute towards the safety of pedestrians on our roads. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this may be a very technical affair, but it is a very important one.
I very much welcome the combination of the 2005 Directive on frontal protection systems and the 2003 Directive on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users into a single regulation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, just to clarify, sadly, many more than 8 000 people die each year on our roads.
Furthermore, it relates to the year 2004 and applies to the EU-25.
However, at this point we are talking about the technical possibilities offered by the vehicles themselves.
These new technical possibilities such as automatic distance control and automatic obstacle recognition are already available in some top-of-the-range vehicles.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the speakers, partly because I believe that this is a job that we have accomplished together and I think that it demonstrates the validity that both Parliament and, in particular, the Commission, have together been able to impart to a proposal that is, in my view, in the current times, quite significant and important.
I also believe that the most important point is that 80% of fatal accidents occur in towns and cities, that is to say, at 35, 40 or 50 kilometres per hour.
This means that the problem is not only on the motorways with vehicles travelling at high speed, the problem is that so many deaths of vulnerable people actually occur in towns and cities, at 40 kilometres per hour.
That is why the second aspect is, in my view, important and so I must thank the Commissioner and the Commission for the political will that they have shown in creating a system of that type in this Regulation.
That is why I believe that both the European Parliament and in particular the Commission have considered it appropriate to create this Regulation, because it will be in force in all the Member States and it pays special attention to the search for suitable technology by giving a period of five years after which the Council will be able to consider whether technology has made further progress, and can see whether the system can also be modified.
I would therefore like to thank all those who have spoken, as well as the President, and I believe that tomorrow the vote in favour will be an achievement for the European Parliament and especially for those who have worked over this period.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 18 June 2008.
Unfortunately I feel that in my country there are three main factors why pedestrian accidents occur.
The Government did not respond adequately when this was uncovered.
Even in the twin capitals of Valletta and Victoria the Government has not been able to provide decent pavements.
Third: the courts in Malta are too lenient when sentencing drivers who have caused fatal accidents.
