We reject the request for urgent procedure. &#160;&#160; –We shall now vote on the request for urgent procedure. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we are a group of MEPs who wish to attribute responsibility for the Eurostat affair.
I should be dreadfully annoyed if the date were to be put back, because that would lead to our having the vote during the May part-session, which should be a time for celebrating the accession of the new Member States.
We are very sorry that the services have delayed this matter, and we insist that the President now give notice that it is on the agenda. &#160;&#160; Mr Bonde, I wish to inform you that the services of Parliament are currently verifying the signatures, because, as you know, in the process of sending the signatures, some were added and others withdrawn.
Parliament is deeply disappointed, because after the disaster involving the , we had already worked with the Commission constructively in order to tighten up policy.
The Temporary Committee on improving safety at sea (MARE) was set up in November 2003 and its brief was firstly, to look into recent shipping disasters, particularly the and the ; secondly, to analyse the social and economic implications; thirdly, to evaluate existing European and international rules; fourthly, to examine how the recommendations from the first resolution have been acted upon and finally, to formulate additional proposals, if necessary.
After six months of hard work, we now have a balanced report.
As such, approval of this report will hopefully constitute an important step in the direction of a safer sea, because that was the key motivation behind the work of these past six months.
Let me now turn to the report.
As indicated in the report, there are therefore still 20&#160;000 tonnes unaccounted for that still constitute a threat.
The cleared oil is being stored somewhere but is yet to be processed.
Secondly, the meeting with the master has exposed the contrasting statements, on the one hand, by the Spanish authorities who claimed that right at the outset 10&#160;000 tonnes of oil ended up in the sea, and, on the other, by the master that on the first day, only 2&#160;000 to 3&#160;000 tonnes were lost via one of both openings.
That is unfortunate and actually very unsportsmanlike when you consider the efforts we have all made to contribute to the activities.
A sound compromise has been reached in the committee on the European coastguard service.
I would therefore suggest removing the contradiction in Amendment No 26 and bringing paragraph 13 into line with paragraph 10.
This aspect has been included in the report, but I think that a quick scan from the Commission is required to indicate the level of transmitters we would need to deploy.
I am convinced that this work and the report being presented today will make a valuable contribution towards continuing to improve safety at sea in Europe and doing as much as possible to prevent further environmental catastrophes.
In this case we have adopted measures and the Member States are acting, albeit not always in a satisfactory manner.
As I stated in my speech to the MARE Committee on 22 January 2004 as a result of the entry into force of the Directive establishing a Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system on 5 February, the Commission has already begun the appropriate violation proceedings for failure to inform it of transposition measures for this Directive.
The situation is, however, more satisfactory with regard to port State control and classification societies, as only one Member State of the Union of Fifteen has still failed to comply by communicating the measures it has taken to transpose the Directive on port State control.
We are going to be absolutely firm on this point, because safety at sea is an important matter.
Following my last speech to the Temporary Committee, the Commission services conducted on-site inspections in those countries and we were able to verify considerable progress in incorporating Community law, although it must be said that we cannot yet say that the required objectives have been achieved.
We need to continue to strengthen the administrative capacity of these countries.
In the context of the application of the legislation in force you have highlighted three points.
Currently the results of the evaluation process are being analysed in detail and, as promised, the Commission will be able to provide Parliament with a report that will include the conclusions of that evaluation and also the results of a study that the Agency was charged with on compensation for damage caused by the use of a place of refuge by a ship.
Based on this information, and also taking into account what is raised in the conclusions of your report, we will assess any possible amendments or improvements to the texts adopted.
Some of these ideas, such as, for example, increasing the obligations of the Member States to pass on information on traffic or the role of the Agency in responses to incidents at sea are part of the plans that you have outlined for the creation of a coastguard service.
This Convention was partially incorporated into Community law in 2001, with the adoption of the Directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers.
I wish to finish my speech by highlighting the role that the Commission plays in terms of international relations.
We are aware of the significance of the work done in the International Maritime Organisation and I therefore wish to reiterate my thanks to the European Parliament for its support for the Community’s membership of the IMO.
In order to promote the application of satisfactory maritime regulations, the Commission actively supports and promotes the work of the International Labour Office in the process of consolidating all the agreements on international maritime regulations, with a view to adopting a single agreement to which I believe the Community should be a contracting party.
Finally, we are working in close cooperation with the International Maritime Organisation to increase the responsibility of the flag state through inspection systems, in other words to combat flags of convenience.
Once again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has shown how much importance it attaches to the Commission’s work.
Following the accident more than four years ago, during your mandate I wished to help drastically improve safety at sea, and I wish to particularly thank your for the support that you have given me and say, as I said at the start of my speech, that this legislature has been the legislature of safety at sea; the legislature in which, finally, the European Union has had the ambition and the decisiveness to genuinely protect its coasts and also to work at international level with determination, will and rigour to ensure that this protection is not only applied to our coasts and our seas but to all the seas in the world.
As I have always said, the sea belongs to everyone, it is our heritage and treasure, both for humanity now and for future generations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for the information you have given us, and sincere congratulations on your excellent work during this legislature.
On behalf of my group, please pass on our congratulations to him for the commendable and honest work he has been doing in order to be able to present to this House today the most objective and comprehensive report possible with the greatest possible consensus, on a sensitive and difficult matter.
It is in this spirit of objectivity and consensus that I also wished to tackle this issue on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, both in committee and in plenary.
My group, therefore, did not table many amendments, but those amendments were key as we believe that they affect significant points and, although we disagree on some approaches and would like others to be better thought through, I will only highlight those that I consider to be essential.
First of all, our two amendments aim to correct statements in the report regarding fisheries in Galicia that are inaccurate and made rashly, without any basis, and could do a great deal of damage in the future.
Finally, paragraph 39 is also incorrect.
The decision of various Member States of the European Union to ban ‘substandard’, or in other words ‘garbage’ vessels from their exclusive economic zones, may be controversial but has of course been the most effective one since the Until international law is revised, as we ask in our amendment, now paragraph 40 (which is something that is going to take a long time) to amend, among other things, the so-called ‘inoffensive passage’ for these ‘floating bombs’, citizens want us to provide effective measures and there are few measures more effective than those taken by the French and Spanish Governments, supported by Portugal, Italy, Germany and the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
We now know that we are, in fact, faced not simply with problems of prevention regarding safety at sea, but also with problems concerning the management of wrecks.
I hope that the political change in Spain will allow the relaxation of the judicial control to which he is subject and that he will at last be allowed to return home.
We cannot accept that causes of long-term pollution should remain while people gradually turn away from them, trying to avoid the responsibilities of the Spanish State in this area.
I simply hope, Commissioner, that, as in the past, you would draw positively all the conclusions from this report so that we strengthen further the requirements of the European Union regarding safety at sea, particularly within the IMO. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, as the Commissioner said, it is really time we brought to an end the protracted work we have been doing together on improving safety at sea.
I am glad that you mentioned enlargement and Russia, and I think that this report is a historic one from the point of view of the Baltic Sea.
The international dimension emerges strongly and, in your speech, Mrs&#160;de&#160;Palacio, you point out what you are intending to do.
I should like you to elaborate a little on what you said on that point.
I do not think that sufficient attention has been paid to the work being done by the working group that is considering changes to the international compensation regime.
We know that the working group is going to meet in May, and that Spain, France and the Commission have presented a proposal.
I think that the proposal to remedy the flaws in liability insurance and in liability throughout the maritime chain merits more attention here in Parliament.
The creation of the new PSSA in London was a success, but we need to specify what is meant by these.
At the same time, when the Commission evaluates the plans for dealing with places of refuge in other respects, I should like it to decide, with respect to item 14 in the report, whether or not places of refuge should be made public.
The Commission needs to be quicker and stricter in applying its Directives on safety at sea to the Member States and it needs to create the right conditions in cooperation at international level.
Although it is a positive report, our group abstained in the vote in committee because it does not include some matters that are fundamental for the safety of the environment and of seafarers.
It should therefore be incorporated into Amendment No 3 by the GUE/NGL and a new paragraph be added stating: ‘Decisions need to be adopted to ensure that those responsible for disasters pay the full costs of them: owners, charterers, owners of the cargo and classification societies, and in the interests of security, to ban flags of convenience in European waters’.
Measures cannot be taken without reviewing the situation of seafarers and considering exploitation and we cannot make one hundred percent progress on safety if we do not establish the situation of seafarers and their welfare in the report.
The GUE/NGL Group considers these amendments to be fundamental in order for such a positive report to be one hundred percent positive. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Sterckx report is a positive one, for which special thanks are due to the rapporteur.
For this reason, we voted for it in committee.
The report should be firmer and more unequivocal in condemning the behaviour and the culpable omissions of the Spanish Government and the Galician authorities with regard to the disaster, and also in criticising the lack of European Union institutional, technical and economic resources for avoiding and responding to accidents at sea.
The report should highlight the indifference and the neglect displayed by the Commission and by many Member States in the face of calls for effective measures to improve safety at sea and to help countries affected by disasters.
In any case, given the temptation for those with vested interests to forget the disaster, we need to stress that the is not a historical issue, but that it can teach us lessons for the future, especially for Galicia, which of all the countries in the world has suffered the greatest number of such accidents over the last thirty years.
The reaction of civil society in Galicia meant that the disaster became a political issue there, and for the European Union also, giving rise to a democratic movement that was intensified by the democratic struggle for peace and against the war in Iraq.
The hearings of the temporary committee on improving safety at sea have been most instructive.
In the case of the , we can only deplore the decision taken by the Spanish Government to tow away the vessel and wonder at the statements made at that time by its representative.
The worrying situation of certain new Member States as regards the implementation of international and European laws on maritime safety seems to me to lend itself to the creation of a rapid and complete body of expertise, especially since we may wonder at the relative inaction of the Council regarding criminal-law penalties for pollution of the sea.
To conclude, therefore, I should point out the equally important need for maritime safety to be accompanied by a genuine policy of prevention and punishment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the report resulting from the work of the Temporary Committee is ultimately rather unconvincing.
The report, as amended, thus favours preventive action and calls for the joint construction of large anti-pollution vessels and the permanent equipping of fishing fleets with fuel recovery trawls.
Very soon, however, the report cannot stop itself drifting off towards a series of federalist fads.
I should also like to thank you, Commissioner, because I believe that, in the course of this legislative period, we have succeeded in establishing a close working relationship between Parliament and the Commission in order to try and put the finishing touches to the legislation on safety at sea.
This has been shown clearly by the discussions of our committee.
Finally, it is also important to note that European authorities, whether national or local, must continue their partnership with the people working in maritime transport.
Be that as it may, I believe that we in this House must remain vigilant so that the work done here really can bear fruit. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament proved its worth by establishing a temporary committee to assess the causes and consequences of the oil tanker disaster and to make proposals to increase safety at sea.
This was not the case and the majority of the groups feel that between 13 and 19 November 2001 hasty and badly thought out decisions were taken which resulted in an accident turning into the greatest environmental disaster in Europe of the last few decades.
After five months of hearings we are still wondering what made the Spanish authorities in charge order that the vessel be removed to the high seas.
Among other things, the report incorporates the necessary criticism of the Spanish authorities regarding management of the tragic disaster of the .
Finally, the report would like to see better protection for the Baltic, a better instrument for tracing dangerous vessels in order to locate them in the event of a disaster.
It also formulates a number of requirements concerning international legislation.
I am sorry that the amendments calling for better cooperation and coordination of national actions have not been accepted in favour of a European coastguard service, which my group does not support.
Safety at sea will not be improved without a review of the conditions under which seafarers work, without an end to the overexploitation that is to be found on many vessels, and without offering worthwhile pay with harmonisation at European level.
I think that the fact that the vessel was sailing in an unsuitable condition was the responsibility of the owner, the captain, the oil company that owned the cargo, but above all, it was the responsibility of the classification society ABS, whose inspection conducted in the port of Dubai four months before it sank had not been correctly carried out according to the audit subsequently conducted by the International Association of Classification Societies.
The Commissioner said that a new report on the future of maritime safety will soon be presented.
I hope that this time the Commission will emphasise the need for immediate and accurate information in the event of maritime disasters.
That was not the case with the , where the interests of the public and in particular of the victims in Galicia and the northern part of the Iberian Peninsula, including the Basque country, were completely ignored.
As a demonstration of linguistic solidarity, I am opting today to speak the language of farmers and seafarers, for the language of Castelão, a defender of true individual and collective freedom, taking the specific as my starting point and moving on to universal truths.
I will be the only Member of this Parliament who will not have this opportunity because my political party has been outlawed by the Kingdom of Spain.
I will be the only Member of this Parliament who will not have that possibility because our political party has been outlawed by the Kingdom of Spain.
The committee worked consistently in an excellent atmosphere, and everyone attempted to resolve the problems in a sensible manner.
We once again investigated maritime accidents subsequent to those involving the and the and mainly concentrated on the statutory measures introduced since then at European level to improve safety at sea and their implementation in the Member States.
Of the 56 conclusions, I would like to emphasise four of a general nature.
We still have the problem that the waste extracted from the sea in the last few months and in the last few years must be carefully recycled, but that is a special problem.
Secondly, in our opinion, the Spanish courts should urgently bring forward the judicial proceedings in respect of the accident and change the conditions applicable to the captain, so that he can return home until they start.
Thirdly, the new regulations resolved on with the ‘Erika I’ and ‘Erika II’ packages of legislation are essentially the right ones for achieving a substantial improvement in safety at sea.
Fourthly – and this is the key point – there is still inadequate transposition of the safety regulations into the national law of some Member States, and therefore into reality.
I call on every person in a position of responsibility to examine my accusation, which concerns the last paragraph of the text entitled 'exchange of views with the master' in the explanatory report, and to crush the translation mafia in the European Parliament.
To close, I wish to express my faith in what I would call absolute cooperation with the ΙΜΟ. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the paradox in the European Union when we discuss safety at sea is that the Member States call for measures following disasters and then fail to apply them.
This can be done, above all, by investing considerably more in monitoring existing measures.
I think that what we all want is for so much to happen in the next few years that we will never have to hold a debate of this nature in Parliament again and that the risk of accidents of this nature will go down considerably, partly as a result of what we in the European Union are doing.
Needless to say, coordination and cooperation among Member States is of key importance.
The report contains many proposals to that effect.
We must learn from each other and we must try to apply the same procedures.
From that, it transpired that the United Kingdom has adopted a very clear line of command in the case of accidents.
This must also be done at European level.
We are all in favour of giving the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA), the new institution, an important role during the further development of policy in this field, including controls and suchlike. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee and also the rapporteur in spite of his absence.
I am especially grateful to him for his work because, seeing the title and the aim of this Temporary Committee on improving safety at sea and some of the numerous amendments proposed, one gets an impression of the difficulty of his work as rapporteur, as well as the impression that the political opponents of the party in government of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and also in the Spanish Government were more interested in the partisan and party debate and in trying to erode and wear down the governing party politically than in looking forward and trying to efficiently and effectively improve the various aspects of safety at sea: social, economic, fisheries, tourism, environmental and health.
Finally, I will refer to the purely social aspect, since maritime activity is a human activity, and every professional maritime worker also has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity and also requires measures intended to raise the prestige of maritime occupations in order to make them more attractive to young people in general and young Europeans in particular.
Thank you for this, Mr President, and thank you, Commissioner, for all the progress we have made under your drive and direction.
The report that is now before us is succinct and clear and has avoided duplication in respect of the September resolution.
A majority in this Parliament is – quite rightly – in favour of a far-reaching form of cooperation between the different coastguard services, with the establishment of a common European coastguard service as the ultimate goal, if necessary.
Since my own report concerning the introduction of criminal sanctions has run aground in the Council, I am delighted to see that a few Members, including the rapporteur, are calling on the Council to reach a decision in this matter as soon as possible.
It is precisely those Member States that reject controls by means of Community legislation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, in the course of one minute I should like to point out to you six paths to be worked on during the next legislative period.
Thirdly, flags of convenience, making every effort to drive them out, and strengthening our position within the International Maritime Organisation.
There, Commissioner, you have a number of points on which it must be possible to work during the legislative period that is about to start. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, anyone who travelled at the time with the delegation of the committee to Galicia will never forget the inexhaustible assistants in their initially white, but soon oil-stained overalls, above all how they attempted stone by stone to wash away every trace of oil from the coast.
Effective protection of the coast can only be achieved through greater safety at sea at the multinational level.
What is effective is if, in the context of joint protection of the coast, synergies can be recognised and, through a joint organisation, people and materials be aligned with each other and the best possible use made of them across the countries and seas of the region.
I am proud of this and I am sure that the catalogue of measures we have decided on will achieve its objective.
This will be to the benefit of everyone in the European Union, in both the present members and the new ones, in the short, medium and long term.
My second point is that the Baltic is a sensitive maritime area.
My third and final point is that we are aware that 80% of all accidents at sea are attributable to human error.
Since the disaster in November 2002, the issues of European maritime security and safety have been given a much higher priority on the European agenda.
In addition, the traffic in EU shipping lanes is increasingly heavy and the number of collisions and disasters that have occurred in EU waters points to the need for more effective coordination in avoiding potential maritime disasters.
Additionally, given the present geo-political climate, we must consider how we can prevent the potential threat of terrorist attacks using the seas of Europe.
Often EU leaders seek to make the EU more relevant in the daily lives of their citizens.
I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on her work in the field of maritime safety.
To send the frail into the open sea in storm conditions was a capital blunder on the part of the Spanish Government.
A European coastguard service will play a crucial role in future.
If we must be critical, we must go back much further, as before the , before the , unfortunately, the European coastlines had been polluted, assaulted, by a series of dreadful accidents.
It is, however, true that the decision of the Commission and Parliament has been much more systematically clear than that of the Council.
I am not referring to each of the countries of the Council, as they have different sensibilities, but to the Council as a whole.
Neither can the governments intervene in the legal decisions of the Member States.
This must be done, however, not only at European Union level, but also at the level of the International Maritime Organisation.
Therefore, to a certain extent, we are already looking at this problem, but we will only be able to go further when at international level, which is what we are pushing for, all questions of auditing and of the responsibility of the Member States issuing the flag are clearly reinforced.
It is, however, clear that we require the seafarers and the crews of our vessels to have undergone training that makes them much safer.
It is necessary to continue this work and, in fact, throughout this legislature we have established and adopted measures to strengthen and improve the quality of crews and also the prestige of maritime work, making it more attractive, making it a viable life option for our young people to join a merchant ship as a seafarer, officer or captain.
In this respect I think that, for example, during the Greek Presidency, a series of measures were taken and I hope that there will be a commitment on the part of the British Presidency to take up all these initiatives that we are working on to make the occupation of sailor more attractive to young people in the European Union.
For this reason, we must back what is attainable at the moment: greater cooperation and coordination between the coastguards of the different Member States and, of course, an expansion of the role of the European Maritime Safety Agency.
I refute any kind of accusation of complicity with terrorism.
The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; There can be no doubt that the Spanish authorities have a great deal to answer for over the shipwreck of the .
The report itself, although it is very much lacking in some areas, is highly critical of the Spanish authorities, and in particular of the statements made by Spanish leaders and of the failure to make the conclusions of the investigations more widely known.
As you well know, the current Community framework is inadequate in view of the numerous initiatives that have been set up recently at national level in this regard.
This framework needs to be strengthened, particularly in order to ensure fair competition conditions between freight transporters and give greater stimulus to the balance between the individual modes of transport.
On the other hand, we need to understand the concerns of those countries that are expecting a possible increase in transport costs and, therefore, a comparatively unfavourable situation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I would have liked to have this initiative adopted at first reading and for an informal trialogue, or an informal agreement between Parliament, Council and Commission, to have allowed us to go ahead with this initiative.
I hope, however, that thanks to the result of Mr Cocilovo’s report, to the amendments to be introduced and to the fundamental support of this Parliament for the Commission proposal, we will soon be able to achieve a common position in the Council that is sufficiently close to Parliament’s proposal to allow, quickly, at second reading or through a quick conciliation, the adoption of this extremely important directive for the balance of transport in the European Union to be completed. &#160;&#160; .
Mr&#160;President, Commissioner de Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, as the Commissioner has mentioned, it is important not just, and not so much, to highlight the significance of this proposal for a directive, within the framework of developing a European strategy for transport systems, but also to mention that it is not the first time that the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council itself have dealt with matters relating to the transport system and transport networks and expressed their views with specific pronouncements on them and with reference to the external costs involved in their use and the associated, problematic issue of transport infrastructure charges.
As regards the reference to Parliament’s contribution, certain points were highlighted on all of these occasions in the conclusions linked to individual reports and speeches: the need first of all to harmonise transport charges in all Member States to consolidate the single European market; the opportunity for a transformation – if not a radical one in some cases, then one that is objective and realistic at all times and, in any case, challenging – of the charging structure with a view to internalising the external costs of transport, which are often overlooked when decisions are made concerning the transport mode and, therefore, omitted from infrastructure completion strategies.
Also highlighted was the need, in any case, to create a system of tariffs tallying with transport infrastructure use; the need to establish homogenous mechanisms for calculating the costs of each mode of transport and clearly comparing the Member States; and, finally, the need, to equip governments with transport policy instruments based on infrastructure costs so as to encourage the use of transport modes with less environmental impact and, above all, to allow for new investments in infrastructure and, in future, to complete the plan for fully implementing the major infrastructure projects for the trans-European transport networks that are also suffering from problems of financial cover.
At this stage, therefore, the governments of the Member States must address two separate issues.
I would just like to mention that if this all has to take place outside of a plan – which is acceptable to no one – of detrimentally penalising road transport, it will be necessary to guarantee alternatives because the single incentive of toll charging or the measure relating to costs would not constitute an answer to the problem, in the absence of real and competitive alternatives to redirect a proportion of the volume of traffic.
At the same time, it will help to improve conditions for the movement of persons and goods within the Community, it will stimulate increased competitiveness in the transport sector and it will regulate the inclusion of all external costs in the prices paid by users.
Lastly, I have taken into consideration that the original proposal did not include any measure to allow for the specific situation of outlying countries, whose transport operators, as regards their ability to compete, will be more affected in the short to medium term than their counterparts in Member States in the centre of Europe.
The approval of a new recital covering exactly this point should encourage the Commission and the Council to take this fact into account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Vice-President, Mr Cocilovo, my group does, of course, endorse your report, in which you support the proposal of the Commission to review the Directive on the road toll fees and propose major improvements.
We were indeed all in agreement – even the rapporteur has referred to it – that we cannot increase the road toll fees without limit, because the increase of toll fees would lead to the death of the transport economy and the economy as a whole.
There must be limits to how far we can increase road toll fees, because otherwise we will harm jobs and economic growth.
Up to now, we generally took the view that it was possible to tax goods vehicles in favour of other transport players in the spirit of cross-finance in the Alps and the Pyrenees, because this territory, so to speak, imposed a need for particularly expensive transport facilities, for example for rail.
Now, this provides a basis for permitting cross-finance in other sensitive areas also.
It is also extremely important for us that it has been possible to apply the full cost principle and to include infrastructure older than 15 years.
I look forward to the further discussion in the next parliamentary term and to future debates on the subject. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Cocilovo, sooner or later, even the European Union will succeed in giving itself some rules in order to apply the two principles: the ‘user pays’ principle, whereby users meet the cost of infrastructure use, and the ‘polluter pays’ principle, whereby polluters will pay the costs of the negative effects of congestion, pollution and health damage, that are becoming ever more evident.
Fortunately, however, it seems to me that the Cocilovo report gives some additional guidelines.
At the same time, the report suggests guidelines as to the possibility of having different tariffs to take into account congestion and pollution and to encourage a shift to other modes of transport.
I acknowledge that the rapporteur has made suggestions here which have also been accepted by the majority of the committee and which relate to the possibility of allocating external costs, that is to say, environmental costs.
I have been a Member of this Parliament for two parliamentary terms and there has been constant discussion of this, but no concrete proposals for charging methods have ever been made.
As a result, the charges are more flexible and more market-oriented than in the old regime, and that is progress.
In this context, it is important to ensure that unnecessary new charges for heavier transport do not have a knock-on effect, which would have serious consequences for the normal logistical flow of goods, and lead to competition from the top down.
The proposal that is now before us is not quite finished.
Finally, I am pleased that any reference to passenger transport has been removed from this report.
However, it is, above all, important to ensure that an alternative is in place. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are standing at an historical turning point.
With the agreement between Parliament and the Council in the Sommer report on toll systems, the comprehensive toll has for the first time been made administratively and technically possible.
The report says that we are moving towards a fair system of charging, but this morning we have been listening to what is pure demagogy, particularly in the last speech.
The European consumer will pay the price if transport systems do not function in Europe.
In Finland recently 23 people died in just one crash involving a lorry and a bus.
Finland is one of the richest countries in Europe.
The Commissioner said that the Council was concerned about competitive disadvantages, and this concern is natural, as in some areas the charges are too high, for instance in northern Scandinavia, where the distance not only to the European market but also within the region and within each country is great.
A system of user charges such as this must not be instrumental in obstructing transport with the result that the economy and employment are hit.
The amendment to Article&#160;7 of the report states that it should be possible to set lower charges.
I have gained a hearing for these ideas in the Cocilovo report, and for that I give my warmest thanks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, let me start by saying that my first thought is that I personally am sorry that a European charging mechanism closer to the ambitions set out in the White Paper has not been provided; one that is more universal which would make it possible, in particular, to go so far as to finance the trans-European transport networks from a European source of revenue.
A radical transformation is needed in the charging structures with a view to internalising social and environmental costs of transport.
Greenhouse gas emissions are mainly attributable to road transport.
The debate is closed.
The specific legislation set out in the report issued by Parliament at first reading in January 2003 of the legislative proposal on driving and rest periods are a good example of the concern and position of this Parliament on this subject.
The Commission has taken on many of the recommendations drawn up last year by Parliament, including that concerning the monitoring of provisions on working time, both on the road and at company premises.
The proposal increases the percentage of checks, which rises from 1% to 3%, on the working days of professional drivers, introduces various measures to improve the quality of the checking activities in the Member States, and also establishes a common approach to the most serious offences.
Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal that has been tabled must contribute, without a doubt, to greater observance of the current rules and, therefore, to an improvement of safety on European roads, while promoting and continuing to support the reality of our internal market.
Mr Turmes is right; in the White Paper, the Commission found that compliance with the regulations on working conditions and rest and driving times in goods transport on roads is only patchy.
In addition, the Commission, in its two-year report on the implementation of Regulation 3820, has recorded a constant increase in the number of infringements.
In addition, through the Directive, a special monitoring of small companies in industrial areas is to be introduced.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, however, agreed to include the proposals of Parliament at the first reading in the proposal made here, in particular the definition of the driver, the range of application of the Directive and the subject of the controls.
To that extent, I regard the solution of the committee as acceptable, which is to increase the control not, as originally proposed, to 3% but only to 2%, as was already found in my report on the revision of Regulation 3820, at any rate in connection with the option of a further increase of the controls on the introduction of the digital tachograph.
I also extend thanks to the representatives of the various trade union organisations, employers’ associations, and police authorities responsible for monitoring compliance with the social regulations, for their valuable suggestions for the practical implementation of a directive of this kind. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the monitor is still giving the wrong information.
I will take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his constructive collaboration.
It means quite specifically that the 56-hour driving times that are already permitted per week can be increased by a further 20%, in other words, that a further 11 hours can be added.
So I think that this matter will really be improved only if we agree, here in the plenary, to reduce this tolerance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like first to thank the rapporteur for his work.
It provides a partial answer to the question whether enlargement, which involves different working conditions in the various countries, will distort the market.
I regard minor differences of opinion – which have indeed been mentioned – as matters of detail, because the Group of the European People’s Party is advocating realistic and viable controls.
If they were to do so, there would be no great need for details, and then part of this directive would perhaps also be superfluous. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the problem which needs to be addressed is the violation of existing provisions relating to working conditions in the field of freight transport and our objective, of course, is to stamp out and drastically reduce these violations.
The combination of this awareness and a sense of moderation mean that the proposed measures have been addressed realistically and without overreacting.
We also took account of the need for maximum possible harmonisation between social provisions in the field of road transport in the Member States, the opportunities offered by modern technology in connection with the subject of controls, the statistics available to us, the views already expressed by the European Parliament about better application of current social provisions and the views of the social partners.
Of course, we must remember that we still expect the Council to submit a common position on the regulation harmonising social provisions in the field of road transport.
There will be even greater differences among us with enlargement, and we have to allow for differences in circumstances.
We are thus in favour of safety and efficiency, but at the same time of taking the position of transport companies and drivers into account when it comes to practical matters. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we shall vote for this document, which is aimed at implementation, that is a degree of control, of social legislation relating to road transport, provided however that amendments do not completely change the nature of its content.
After all, we are in favour of implementation of the few rare measures of social legislation decided on by Parliament.
Inadequate social legislation is better than the completely discretionary power of the road haulage employers.
This shows that I am of course opposed to all the amendments directly inspired by the employers’ lobby, which are aimed at watering down the controls ensuring compliance with this already intolerable working time.
I am speaking on behalf of the road haulage unions, which are demanding that working time should be fixed at 45 hours at European Union level.
I should add that, over and above this claim, which is in fact modest, it is unacceptable that the concern is not to reduce the working time and efforts of the men, but only to ensure profitability, that is basically to ensure the profits of the road haulage employers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, even though children are taught rules, they still try to break them, in which case more serious measures are needed to correct their behaviour.
It would be wise to agree on an equal interpretation of the provisions first before including them.
The debate is closed.
The Commission has taken up the subject in a way which deserves our gratitude, and in the last two and a half years it has in particular been able, in a consistently difficult process of dialogue with Parliament on the one hand and the Council on the other, to make its contribution to ensuring that in record time we have produced a very good joint text, which we can now agree at second reading and thus even before the end of the present parliamentary term.
Of the many points that it has been possible to include in this directive or statutory text, I would like to mention one subject in particular, which above all Parliament, but not Parliament alone, regarded as of particular interest, namely the fact that we are also considering, quite specifically, the interests of the disabled.
I was also particularly delighted, as rapporteur for this proposal, by the fact that we have also been able to include in the meetings and negotiations for this admittedly far from simple text two countries that are not original Member States of the European Union – I mean unfortunately not original Member States of the European Union – but who are of course also of very particular importance for questions of safety on the European road network.
Similarly – and this is the last point that I would like to stress – we can assume that, in the future Member States of the European Union, which will be full members of the EU as from 1 May 2004, with this statutory text, which is for some of the new members part of the that they have yet to take on board, we have created a European basis for ensuring that these parts of the overall European road network are also rapidly offered the degree of safety which must be guaranteed by road builders, road maintainers and road monitors, as we rightly believe.
In conclusion, I would like to thank warmly all those who have actively collaborated in the creation of this piece of legislation, especially the Commissioner, who has been decisively committed to the subject, but above all also the Commission as a whole with its staff and both the Council and its staff and also Parliament and our groups here in this House and their staff.
Parliament has undertaken a thorough study of the Commission’s proposal.
Most of the amendments have been incorporated into the revised proposal presented by the Commission.
Let us not forget that the text that will emerge from this House today is a text that strongly reflects the contribution made by the European Parliament and its amendments.
When they want to, the three institutions are capable of working together and working well.
He has done an excellent job, and has, in particular, been able to strike a balance between the costs connected with safety measures and the major safety measures which must be taken in tunnels in the next few years.
Madam Vice-President, for many years there has been an often very hard, but also very fair cooperation and debate.
While not exactly being a person who radiates meekness and readiness for compromise from the word go, you are a person with whom it is worthwhile to argue and find a compromise.
In that sense, I would like to say that I agree with you entirely: in the last few years in the area of transport policy we have taken a very large number of important decisions, in which you and your staff have played a very important part, and for that you have my warm thanks.
I assume that you will remain in the Commission and continue to be politically active, and perhaps we will have a little bit of time to argue with each other.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; Pursuant to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, I have received a motion of censure on the Commission, signed by 65 Members, concerning the Commission's role in the Eurostat affair.
This motion meets the basic requirements of Rule 34 and so will be forwarded to the Commission.
Rule 34 stipulates that the vote on the motion cannot take place until at least 48 hours after the start of the debate.
This means that the vote will be taken during the May part-session, at a time to be indicated on the agenda for that part-session, in agreement with the Groups, when we prepare the details of that part-session.
There is a motion which is stated in valid terms and where the requisite number of signatories have been verified.
The motion is a valid one and must be brought to the House at the earliest moment.
We cannot add the question of censure itself to another debate.
That is the first point.
The whole point of the motion of censure is to get the Commission itself to attribute responsibility to one of the Commissioners for a scandal for which there must be political accountability.
The aim is nothing more and nothing less than that, so if, between now and May, the Commission itself can attribute responsibility, there will be nothing to vote on in May.
We had arranged everything so that we could avoid having it mixed up with the solemn celebration of the accession of the new Member States, but your services have not been helpful in verifying the signatures, which have, for all that, been available since yesterday.
The earliest the debate can take place is 24 hours after it has been announced.
The earliest valid time to vote, according to the Rules of Procedure, is 48 hours after the start of the debate.
Secondly, notwithstanding their removal from the list at this time, the list is still sufficient to warrant the tabling of a motion of censure. &#160;&#160; May I say to my fellow Member that only Hans Peter Martin, and no one else, can verify signatures.
Because if it is 10% of Parliament after 1 May, that means a greater number of Members than if it is 10% of Parliament today.
If the vote is taken on 5 May with the Members of 1 May, voting cannot be allowed on the basis of a figure of 10% of the MEPs today.
Secondly, Mr Bonde – and in saying this I am also addressing the members of my group who have signed this motion of censure – I consider it the responsibility of this Parliament not to appear completely foolish by having us believe that a motion of censure tabled at the end of a legislative period is a political act.
Mr President, election period or not, we are proceeding with the second reading on the interoperability of toll-collection systems in the European Union, and this is truly a subject that Germans like to address.
By and large, the Council has now adopted our amendments from the first reading.
This represents a good bit of work on our part in the European Parliament, because we made major changes to the Commission draft.
This was the specification laid down by the present draft directive, and the draft now fully meets that specification.
At the same time, however, we wish to make it crystal-clear that, in view of the vast array of potential additional uses of satellite positioning and mobile communications, their adoption is to be recommended in principle – provided that the strictest of measures are put in place to protect personal data.
The innovative European project Galileo will provide the information services for this purpose from 2008.
In short, the common position as it now stands constitutes an absolutely excellent outcome.
This ratification will enable the Community to contribute to policy making and to strengthen the synergies between the two organisations.
The entire air sector should benefit from this.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the enlargement of the European Union now imminent, I would like to stress how valuable membership of Eurocontrol by the accession countries that have not yet joined it will be for everybody in improving air safety.
The Commission’s proposal is good.
I wish to thank my honourable colleagues from the various parliamentary groups for their broad approval of this report, and I am pleased that we shall manage to complete this process before the end of the current parliamentary term. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the safety of our citizens is a priority for all of us.
We are aware of the importance of external border controls and the need to strengthen them, also as a result of freedom of movement and the abolition of controls at internal borders.
This represents a threat to our democracies, a threat we need to combat by strengthening our own democratic systems and instruments here in Europe.
The proposal before us and a second proposal announced by the Commission – for the purpose of defining the system and the way in which it is to operate – are complementary and must be dealt with jointly.
If something is to be financed, both the legislative authority and the budget authority need to know exactly what.
It means delaying the creation of the final system that will have to be in place before the end of this year.
He will also provide ongoing information on follow up to this matter. &#160;&#160; In that case the matter is automatically referred back to committee under Rule 68(3) of the Rules of Procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to refer to what happened with the Schmidt report during the previous sitting: it does not make any sense at all to refer the report back to the committee.
We do not have two months, because we are at the end of the parliamentary term, and I call on this House to vote on my report, which includes a legislative resolution from this Parliament and rejects the Commission's initiative. &#160;&#160; No, we shall not vote on the legislative resolution.
We would like to check that there is to be a separate vote on Amendments Nos 38 and 39 as a block and on Amendments Nos 80, 102, 122, 127 and 128.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment proposing that the coverage threshold for microcredits be drawn at EUR&#160;500.
This combination means that there would be a minimum threshold of 500 combining with a Socialist upper threshold.
If the overall ceiling for credits opened, equivalent to EUR 20&#160;260, is taken into account, it will soon be seen that the report accompanying this legislative proposal does little to further the geopolitical considerations and objectives which it is supposed to be inspired by, and in particular the creation of a pan-European-Mediterranean free trade area, in which the European Union has great political, economic and military influence at regional level.
But more worrying still is the fact that this Neighbourhood Policy appears to be to the detriment of the European Union's cooperation and development policy, especially in relation to the ACP (Africa, Caribbean and Pacific) countries, Latin America and Asia. &#160;&#160; The proposal before us deals with the revision, up to the end of the remaining period of the mandate, of the Community budget guarantee to the European Investment Bank for the loans the EIB grants to third countries on the basis of its own resources.
The enlargement of the Union on 1&#160;May 2004 will result in an increase in the EIB's lending capacity without raising the ceiling on its external lending mandate, which will be particularly favourable at a time when the European Union is stepping up its cooperation with potential candidate countries in the Western Balkans and is preparing to gradually strengthen its links with other neighbours to the south and east.
The common position demonstrates that the solution suggested by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism is that best suited to achieving the key objective of interoperability between the various electronic road toll systems in operation in some Member States.
Once again, we must reaffirm that the fight against terrorism cannot be allowed to threaten respect for our citizens' rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to privacy, of which the protection of personal data forms a part, as laid down in Article&#160;8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
The protection of personal data should not be viewed as an obstacle to effectively fighting terrorism, which means that we have certain reservations about the changes proposed to the regulation, in spite of the European Parliament's amendments, which specifically refer to these rights. &#160;&#160; The object of the proposal for a regulation as presented by the Commission is to modify the Community Customs Code, incorporating certain basic principles for managing the security of our external borders and establishing a harmonised risk assessment system.
The following measures deserve particular attention: (a) the introduction of a requirement for traders to provide customs authorities with information on goods before they are imported into or exported from the European Union; (b) the establishment of a framework for authorising operators; (c) the creation of a mechanism for agreeing risk criteria at Community level; (d) the establishment of automated support systems for the implementation of risk management.
The proposal reflects a positive desire for integrated and effective management of our external borders, by seeking to improve the effectiveness of customs procedures and controls, both by simplifying customs legislation and by enhancing the use of electronic systems in customs procedures.
This proposal forms part of the ‘Single European Sky’ initiative, which provides for an active Community role as regards Eurocontrol's technical competences.
The accession protocol stipulates the legal provisions permitting the Community to become a full member of Eurocontrol, establishing joint participation in Eurocontrol by the Community and the Member States on the basis of an allocation of voting rights.
As ever, attempts are being made to move forward in ways and at a pace with which we cannot agree. &#160;&#160; This proposal relates to the accession of the European Community to the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation, Eurocontrol.
The Council and Parliament recently adopted the regulation on the Single European Sky, one of the provisions of which was Community membership of Eurocontrol, so that Parliament has already indirectly expressed its views on this matter.
The relationship between the Community and Eurocontrol may bring certain benefits in terms of air traffic capacity, safety and efficiency, to be achieved by initiating programmes for developing and implementing new air traffic control technologies, and I accordingly voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; .The transformation of the new borders of the European Union formed by enlargement into a veritable iron curtain will have tragic consequences for the populations living on either side of these borders.
To cap it all, the Stockton report, for its part, gives, albeit only temporarily, approximately the same treatment to residents of the border areas between the countries currently in the Union and the new accession countries.
We have abstained so as to avoid blocking the slight relaxation for border residents with respect to Schengen, without endorsing inhumane legislation. &#160;&#160; The object of the Commission's proposal is to regulate local border traffic.
The main objective is to avoid barriers to trade, social and cultural interchange or regional cooperation, with a view to promoting the development of border regions and facilitating border crossing by bona fide border residents, and harmonising the rules applied in order to achieve this.
Although I wish to congratulate the Commission on its initiative, I must disagree with certain points, points that the rapporteur has also challenged and addressed in her report.
Bearing in mind the need to fight illegal immigration, and to prevent criminal activity and even the entry of terrorists, I cannot understand why the Commission is not providing for any controls to ensure compliance with the authorised time limit for a stay.
The points the rapporteur has drawn attention to are extremely pertinent, and given that the amendments in her report will have precisely that effect, I am voting in favour of her report. &#160;&#160; This proposal is one of a group of legislative acts aimed at harmonising rules applying to local border traffic.
Nevertheless, the Commission's attention should be drawn to the abuses that may occur if proper precautions are not taken, with a view in particular to preventing abuses and weaknesses that could facilitate illegal immigration, criminal activity and even terrorist activity. &#160;&#160; Despite certain concerns expressed in the European Parliament's opinion, this initiative, although it is apparently ‘technical’ and ‘neutral’, in fact has to be seen in the context of the criminalisation of immigration and of support for so-called emergency management and the deportation of immigrants back to their countries of origin.
This is yet another aspect of a policy that ignores the economic and social causes of immigration. &#160;&#160; Faced as we are with the opening of borders within the Schengen area, constant breaches of Community borders and urgent security requirements resulting from the current world geopolitical situation, I consider it vital for means of managing and monitoring migratory flows to be coordinated, and the same applies to the monitoring of and fight against illegal immigration.
The Commission's technical platform, CIRCA, the Communication and Information Resource Centre Administrator, will provide a virtual workspace for closed user groups and a continuing information exchange, if it can guarantee a high level of security.
I wish to emphasise the possibility of Europol being included in this network.
As I understand the position, this change will better reflect the current situation in the service sector, and will provide greater security for all parties involved.
The measures proposed will also make it possible to eliminate some existing problems that are the result of the far-reaching changes that have taken place since 1977.
Furthermore, it is important to bear in mind that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs approved the draft legislative resolution unanimously.
Previously, we have also given our support to the resolution on the Commission Green Paper on space policy, adopted on 9&#160;October&#160;2003, the resolution on a uniform European space strategy, adopted on&#160;17&#160;January 2002, and also the resolution on an action plan for implementing the European space policy,adopted on&#160;29&#160;January 2004.
It is important that EU competence not be otherwise extended to space policy and that industrial cooperation on space chiefly take place between Member States according to the Convention establishing the European Space Agency.
The European Union’s involvement in space should cover research in the first instance.
The rapporteur eventually presented an amendment to this effect, which was quickly replaced by a corresponding correction.
These problems threaten our democracies, and must be combated by strengthening European democracy and its instruments.
We must undertake such action within a framework of clear rules that ensure that the system is effective, efficient and in strict compliance with Community rules on protecting personal data.
It should be noted that, as from 1&#160;May, such a decision no longer requires unanimity in the Council.
The VIS is proposed as a system for the exchange of Visa data between Member States.
Whilst we do not share the rapporteur’s position, we do accept his conclusion that this Commission initiative must be rejected, given in particular that it defines neither the system nor its operation ‘including the categories of data to be entered into the system, the purposes for which they are to be entered and the criteria for their entry, the rules concerning the content of VIS records, the rights of access for authorities to enter, update and consult the data and rules on the protection of personal data and its control’.
This proposal seeks to limit a country’s ability to block the transfer of data, in order to guarantee its citizens’ rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think it is important to point out that it was not I alone but all the members of the Austrian People’s Party in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who ultimately rejected the de Roo report.
The wording is simply too vague for our liking, and I am a little surprised that Alexander de Roo does not also recognise that the right to bank credits leaves the door open for credits issued before 2012 in respect of nuclear projects to be used after that date.
This report on the operation and future of the College notes some difficulties, mainly caused by the lack of legal personality.
The aim of this Irish initiative is to confer on the European Police College (CEPOL) the legal personality and authority normally accorded to legal entities.
The purpose of the United Kingdom’s initiative is to locate the College’s seat in Bramshill, following on from the political agreement at the Council, and to establish a permanent secretariat to assist CEPOL.
The feasibility study on giving CEPOL a permanent structure was carried out in a three-year report on the operation and future of CEPOL, which stated that the lack of legal personality had led to difficulties in terms of governance, and at financial and organisational level.
The rapporteur tabled three amendments in order to restore some logic to the proposals, as regards costs borne by the CEPOL budget and the location of the seat of CEPOL.
Above all, he wants fewer rules that are intended to protect employment and the environment and, consequently, fewer costs for entrepreneurs.
The European Plan must, accordingly, contain a directive against discrimination based on disability, which must be applicable to all policies that fall within the EU’s competences.
It regrets the fact that, despite repeated calls by Parliament, the Action Plan does not contain legislative proposals, in particular a directive to combat discrimination based on disabilities, extending to all sectors of European Union competence and designed once and for all to remove all barriers to participation in community life by people with disabilities.
It also criticises the fact that in the proposals for the Action Plan attention has not been given to the need to offer specific support to disabled persons’ organisations in the new accession countries.
The report also states that the future Treaty must provide for stronger measures to combat discrimination and to promote respect for human rights, especially of those people with a high degree of dependency and/or unable to represent themselves unaided.
I wholeheartedly endorse this report, particularly as regards the need to give continuity to actions aimed at combating discrimination against people with disabilities.
It is true that we too often forget that, before people are people with disabilities, they are, quite simply, people, who also deserve to have their dignity and their rights respected: the right to freedom of movement, the right to take part in the life of society in general, the right to equality of opportunity and the right to be respected as a person.
Unfortunately, today, in the countries we call developed, people with disabilities are still too frequently the victims of discrimination.
European strategy must, therefore, focus on combating discrimination and on promoting human rights.
The European Year of People with Disabilities 2003 succeeded in raising awareness of disability-related issues.
We regret, however, that there are no specific legislative proposals, and nor is there a timetable for the submission of a directive to combat discrimination based on disabilities.
We must also strive to ensure that disabled people’s organisations play a more active role in the decision-making process at EU, UN and national level.
I should also like to highlight the Commission’s undertaking to submit a working paper on the implementation of the European employment strategy with respect to disabled persons, and improved accessibility for these individuals to information technologies and the built environment, including access to services.
The report regrets the absence of legislative proposals, and calls for a timetable for submitting a directive in this regard.
It calls for stronger measures to combat discrimination and to promote respect for human rights and opportunities for people with disabilities.
According to the report, it is vital that disabled people should have greater accessibility to information technologies and to the built environment, including access to services.
It also calls for a specific action programme, with effect from the 2005 budget.
This Regulation must, as a matter of urgency, be brought up to date and simplified, in the context of enlargement and given the need to coordinate social security systems in Member States in order to protect the rights of citizens moving around EU territory.
I therefore voted in favour of this recommendation for a second reading regarding the Common Position adopted by the Council.
This Regulation, which applies to all European citizens covered by a social security system in their respective Member States, represents fundamental progress.
An essential step has been taken, especially with the introduction of the principle of good administration, which will encourage greater cooperation and mutual help between the institutions in Member States, and will enhance the way in which citizens’ requests for information are dealt with. &#160;&#160; .We voted in favour of this report even though its explanatory statement specifies that the social security systems of each Member State should be coordinated, not harmonised and still less harmonised from the top down.
If the European Union wanted to make progress in the field of social rights, it would impose a single social security system, extending to all other States the most employee-friendly aspects of legislation in the countries that are most advanced in this area.
The current trend, however, is for each State to make cutbacks in its social security system, which results in the working classes’ access to appropriate care being restricted.
The current regulation on the matter is over 30 years old and has undergone numerous modifications, as a result of national systems being updated and of rulings by the European Court of Justice.
Secondly, concerning unemployment benefit, Parliament and the Commission had suggested that the unemployed could, with prior authorisation, seek work in another country for a period of six months.
Indeed, I must remind you that the free movement of workers is one of the four freedoms laid down in the Treaty of Rome.
Over many years –&#160;since 1971 to be precise&#160;– this regulation has been amended considerably in order to take as much account as possible of changes in national legislation, to improve certain provisions and to fill the gaps that still exist.
Following a great deal of negotiation in the Council and some effective work by our rapporteur, we have achieved a satisfactory balance, taking into account the constraints and characteristics of the Member States’ various social security systems.
Nevertheless, it forms without any doubt whatsoever, an important step forward as regards the free movement of citizens.
They will now be able to retain their rights to social security when they go to work in another Member State.
The Common Position simplifies and updates the legal framework – Regulation 1408/71 – thereby broadening its material and personal scope.
The principles of equal working conditions and of exported benefits are both strengthened.
The Regulation will apply to all those citizens of the Member States covered by the social security legislation of a given Member State.
The difficulties that arose at first reading centred on the approval of two amendments concerning tax harmonisation and an unacceptable definition of the family.
The Common Position that has been reached, which the rapporteur calls on us to endorse, reduces the technical elements substantially and does not seek to impose specific and detailed obligations on Member States.
The main objective remains the same and a higher level of safety in Trans-European tunnels will be ensured.
I also welcome the administrative structure suggested in the report, with a safety coordinator and an authority responsible for traffic in the tunnel.
This proposal forms part of an integrated package of measures to combat air pollution in the EU, based on the aims of the Community’s fifth and sixth environmental action programmes for the environment.
Article&#160;129(a) of the Treaty states that ‘The Community shall contribute to the attainment of a high level of consumer protection’, through ‘specific action which supports and supplements the policy pursued by the Member States to protect the health, safety and economic interests of consumers and to provide adequate information to consumers’.
The rapporteur also seeks to enlist the participation of consumer organisations in this cooperation, and this is something that we consider to be of vital importance.
The aim of the Commission’s proposal is to increase protection for consumers.
There are some extremely welcome measures in this proposal for a regulation, such as closer cooperation between Member States through bodies specially set up for the purpose, and the creation of an electronic database, containing comprehensive information in this area.
Against this background, the report paves the way for the involvement of private consumers’ associations in the framework of cross-border cooperation between the authorities concerned.
The Commission's proposal would have denied the less advantaged and lower- income groups from access to credit.
For example, many consumers in Europe have credit cards, and some have two, three or four.
Many of these problems have been solved by our amendments, and I would appeal to the Council to accept those amendments adopted today.
There are still some problems with overdrafts and credit intermediaries, but Parliament can claim credit for achieving significant improvements to this proposal which I hope will be accepted in the final directive when it is agreed in the next Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you for the outstanding way in which you have conducted the sitting.
My thanks to the President for giving me the floor, and for conducting the sitting so excellently. &#160;&#160; . – I trust that the proposal for a directive on consumer credit which we are debating will provide a solution for the benefit of consumers and will put a stop to this unacceptable situation which functions like an El Dorado for the credit institutions.
The consumer credit market is predominantly a local or regional market.
The issue at stake is whether the application of harmonised rules in this area will contribute towards protecting the consumer.
The Green Paper acknowledges the importance of self-regulation of the main operators through codes of conduct.
The Commission’s proposal seeks to strike a balance between, on the one hand, a higher degree of consumer protection and, on the other, the smooth operation of the internal market.
Of these amendments, the rapporteur is particularly concerned with commercial practices aimed at specific categories of consumer, namely those consumers whose vulnerability is exacerbated by factors such as age, disability, temporary physical or mental condition, or literacy level.
As regards misleading advertising, I endorse the rapporteur’s suggestion that the proposal for a directive should cover advertising whose content is controlled by the companies themselves and not by advertising agencies.
It offers opportunities for individuals and institutions to invest risk capital in an enterprise without the liability associated with ownership.
The proposal before us is intended to consolidate and harmonise existing legislation on pesticides and to standardise the rules across all Member States.
In spite of our reservations about the report’s federalist attitude, the questions of principle appear to be sound, provided that Member States retain the possibility of enforcing more stringent measures in their own territories and that specific national and regional characteristics are taken into account, such as climate differences and the available best agricultural practices.
The purpose of the proposal is to simplify existing legislation and to define the roles of the various parties involved, in particular that of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and that of the Commission, in setting MRLs.
The EFSA will take responsibility for risk assessment, based on its network of experts and institutions in the Member States, and will issue an expert opinion on the safety of each MRL.
Lastly, the choice of Article 95 TEC, as the legal basis for the original proposal for a directive was justified by the fact that the Commission had proposed a range of measures for harmonisation.
In line with the terms agreed by the Council and the European Parliament and because I agree with changing the legal basis to Article 100&#160;TEC, I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; .
This is the case in France, where the market will only be liberalised when conditions are met for French big business to be in control.
It is obvious that this is yet another scheme which involves complicated procedures with uncertain results in order to circumvent the material provisions of the Kyoto protocol and benefit businesses, in that the cost of applying the protocol will fall by 20%.
The Irish presidency has intensified the level of discussions on securing broader international support for the implementation of the Kyoto Accord.
I hope these can help move the process forward and that this lobbying will encourage the US to review its isolationist position on Kyoto.
Enlargement on 1 May 2004 will strengthen our voice and position on the international stage in favour of Kyoto.
I am, of course, in favour of a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, in order to make it easier for our economies to adapt to the constraints imposed by the objectives set out in the Kyoto protocol.
I feel, however, that Parliament wants to introduce an overly bureaucratic system and pointless obstacles.
Before a public debate becomes possible, serious differences of opinion have already been cleared out of the way.
That is in keeping with the Liberal view that a reduction in emission is too expensive at home and it is therefore preferable for this to be done in countries where this is more cost-effective.
However, on a positive note, at least 50% of reduction must be achieved within the EU.
On 18 March 2003, the Council adopted a common position on a Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading.
By stimulating demand for CDM credits, this proposal will enable us also to assist developing countries implementing CDM projects in meeting their objectives for sustainable development.
This would also help to combat climate change through the effective implementation of the Kyoto Protocol.
The rapporteur took great pains to support a new approach and to pursue it boldly.
In this context, I have supported all the amendments that aim to make social and fiscal dumping illegal.
For example, I voted in favour of measures strengthening monitoring accompanied by sanctions, whether on the road or on company premises, and in favour of all improvements to drivers’ working conditions.
In this field, as in others, I am in favour of striving for social and environmental excellence.
Without real involvement from the Member States, and without additional human and material resources, which includes enlarging the labour inspectorate, I fear that these provisions will once again go unheeded.
Imposing rules for monitoring the correct implementation of provisions on working time should be seen, therefore, against the backdrop not only of protecting drivers’ rights, but also of competition and road safety.
I must state my unhappiness at the Council’s ongoing failure to present its common position on adopting a regulation on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport, a matter on which the EP delivered an opinion in January 2003.
Its programme will be divided into two periods (from 2005 to 2007 and from 2008 to 2010) and its total cost will be EUR&#160;687.48 million.
It will apply to all Member States, except to Denmark, and also to all applicant countries.
I note that some fundamental rights are not included in the draft constitution.
Finally, a flagrant violation of fundamental rights has occurred in Spain with the closure of the Basque newspaper .
I am extremely unhappy about this and, because the chairman of my group called me an idiot for signing the draft motion of censure, I have taken the liberty of not voting the way my group directed on this matter and have abstained. &#160;&#160; .– The ΕU never misses an opportunity to brag about its principles and values and to give everyone else lessons in good manners.
Just how hypocritical this is can be seen from the fact that it considers the prosecutions and bans against communists in numerous candidate countries and the Annan plan for Cyprus to be compatible with its principles.
The Commission communication and the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs address the matter as a legal matter and focus on the procedure for applying Article 7 of the Treaty, which makes provision for measures to be taken against Member States which violate the principles of the ΕU.
I voted against the Voggenhuber report, which attempts to exploit Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union to implement, in the area of general policy and citizens’ rights, a new form of ‘multilateral monitoring’, added to the one arising from the Maastricht Treaty for economic policy and the one that the socialists would like to strengthen in the social field.
Then there is the problem of its effectiveness, since to date, as we know, its main achievement has been to paralyse the Member States and to cause stagnation throughout the European system, which is becoming, in all areas, more and more cumbersome, more and more rigid, and more and more difficult to get moving.
Finally, the desire to unify and move beyond the nation States on which this monitoring is founded causes many more problems than it solves, because it subverts democracy and destroys both the pluralism and the dynamism of Europe. &#160;&#160; In 1992, when our Community declared it was moving beyond the economic dimension to become a Union, its treaty stated that ‘the Union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, principles which are common to the Member States’.
This constitution, and also Article 7 of the present Treaty on European Union, allow measures against Member States that cease to be democracies and seriously and persistently breach the rule of law of the constitutional state.
That is important for the undemocratic Spain under the recently defeated Aznar Government and the potential future Member States of Romania and Turkey.
As you know, voting took more than two hours this morning: real political efficiency is required at the end of a legislative period to conclude the work of Parliament’s committees.There is something else, however: I was involved in a very important ceremony outside our Parliament early this afternoon to mark the deaths in Rwanda ten years ago, with the speaker of the Rwandan parliament and a delegation of parliamentarians who had come from Rwanda to be with us here in Strasbourg today.
It was, however, a shocking fact that must be acknowledged and even commemorated, as we did today, since, in addition to our other responsibilities, we for our part have at least a duty to remember. &#160;&#160; – The main reason why I am in the Chair at the start of this afternoon is to mark the visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic.
My first words have been for you, Mr President, to thank you for allowing me to say them to you; I know that you have made an exception for me.
Now that another task has been entrusted to me in my country, I am pleased to be able to pay tribute to you and take my leave as is customary between partners and between friends, because I cannot forget – and have no wish to – that the battles I had for nearly five years here in Strasbourg and in Brussels in the service of the Commission were battles shared by and with this House.
As you know, my other battle was and will continue to be economic, social and now territorial cohesion and its future after 2007.
When it adopts its position on the financial perspectives and cohesion policy in a few hours’ time, this House will be taking an important step towards that final decision in 2005.
Mr President, this is the first time in a long time – I was once a minister – that, with your permission and that of the Irish Presidency, I have spoken to you from the Council benches.
You may be sure of one thing: neither my ideas, nor my method, nor, in particular, my availability or my friendship with this Parliament and those who sit here will be affected or changed now that I am Minister of European and Foreign Affairs of the French Republic.
In doing so, we have tried to include at least three or four priorities which they consider to be paramount priorities, and then ask the Commission and the Council, in paragraph 31, to at least look at all the Annexes to get a feel for what the other committees are trying to do.
The thrust of the report is not to make concrete proposals, but to lay down guidelines for the next Parliament.
As I said, Amendments Nos 17 and 18 asked for a maximum 1% GNI for own resources.
My preference is for the existing paragraph 17, which states that we should evaluate our political priorities, then their needs, and only then should Parliament decide on what the level of own resources should be.
If you look at paragraphs 10, 11 and 12 of the report, it actually says that we should be looking at the priorities and then deciding what that average overall should be.
Paragraph 19 would seem to indicate a higher figure, but looking at this sensibly and pragmatically, we could get any figure and 1% cannot be ruled out.
To repeat one other point I made in the first debate on this issue, I would remind the Council that the Interinstitutional Agreement is only an interinstitutional agreement when the institutions keep to it between themselves.
In other words, Parliament is a key player in this.
Each of the Union's institutions has a responsibility to ensure that we achieve a balanced and fair outcome that supports our policy goals in a financially efficient and financially effective manner.
We need to target resources effectively so that we build a growth-enhancing infrastructure throughout the Union that contributes to the improvement of transport links, with investment in communications and new technologies.
Similarly, the provision of support for human capital – in particular in terms of education and training – has the potential to complement our investment in infrastructure.
The policy of solidarity is critical to the success of our Union.
The European Union must consider how best to support those regions of the new Member States that will lag behind the Union's average in terms of development and access to growth opportunities, including access to employment opportunities.
Our debate on future financing must also consider how we can enhance the priority which we attach to promoting the principle of sustainability in respect of future growth and development.
Equally, we all recognise the importance of providing appropriate resources for increased Union actions in the areas of freedom, security and justice and in support of the Union's external relations role.
As Parliament is aware, we are still at the very early phase of our deliberations on the future financial perspective.
In line with these conclusions and analytical exercises currently under way in the Council to examine each of the areas addressed in the Commission communication, this work will form the basis for the report which will be prepared for the June European Council, outlining the outcome of the deliberations thus far.
The Wynn report is therefore an important contribution to work on an issue in which each of the Union's institutions will be involved.
While there may be differing viewpoints on specific aspects of the issue, I am pleased to see that there are many areas of shared analysis and a common recognition of the importance of focusing on issues such as sustainable development, growth, freedom, security and justice, and the Union's external role.
The budget for the year 2000, the first for which we were jointly responsible, was also the first budget to be drawn up under the current system of financial planning.
In particular, the instrument of the interinstitutional agreement, with its consultation and cooperation mechanisms, has also managed to ensure that the discussion process is efficiently conducted and is concluded in good time.
It goes without saying, however, that the new Commission will be able to assert its own priorities in the consultation process.
The Financial Perspective establishes the financial framework for the policies that will be pursued over the next few years.
Our common aims are ambitious: sustainable growth, greater competitiveness through enhanced support for science, research and education, the development of a European Union area of freedom, security and justice for our citizens, the assumption of more joint responsibility in the world and the successful integration of the new Member States.
The new framework will apply to an EU of 27 Member States.
The Commission proposes that all of this be funded within the present ceiling for the Union’s own resources.
If we compare the figures from the current financial plans with those in the Commission’s new proposal for the years 2007 to 2013, it emerges that our proposed ceiling for this next planning period works out at an average of 1.14% of gross national income, while the current average is in the order of 1.12% if the EDF and the Solidarity Fund are included.
If we examine the Commission’s proposals for the forthcoming planning period for the old Member States alone, we see that they fall well below the ceiling of 1.0% of gross national income requested by some of the Member States.
If, however, we were to set a ceiling of 1.0% for the enlarged Union of 27 Member States, we should have to forego the pursuit of entire policies, and the catalogue of objectives adopted by the Council and ourselves would then become unattainable.
The amounts of expenditure flowing to the current Member States have been reduced in order to create, within the limits of the current ceiling, sufficient financial capacity for the accession of new Member States.
In the realm of budgetary policy, we are well prepared for enlargement.
We have a new up-to-date budgetary system, and we have a new budgetary structure which is far more transparent and far more political.
On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I have four points to make.
The first point is that we fear that too restrictive a budget may actually prevent the European Union from playing its part on the international stage.
The second point is that while we supported a transparent, flexible and simplified budget, we also very much want the European Parliament to retain control of it before any decision is taken.
So far as external relations are concerned, we therefore call for a budget breakdown that is both thematic and geographical.
The second point, that is very important to us, concerns the fact that about 80% to 85% of all the money is spent by the Member States.
In other words, national declarations of good conduct.
In the realm of agriculture, unless the worst comes to the worst, we shall obtain codecision, and our system of financial planning has a substantial agricultural component.
That is all very well, but if you consider the second pillar, to which rural development belongs, there is no real increase once you take account of the fact that there will soon be 25 and then 27 Member States.
In the framework programme for research and development, only five of the individual programmes relate to agriculture.
The proposal that the Commission has now made is an offer – let me just call it that, although I would personally have preferred a rather more sharply defined line to follow.
One final thought: you have formed a reserve for a Growth Adjustment Fund, but there is no provision for a specific reserve to deal with crises in areas such as foreign policy or the environment.
One of these is unquestionably the common fisheries policy, which continues to need a solid financial basis – a need which is now greater than ever before.
The plan to the budgetise the European Development Fund must not result in a reduction in the overall development finance for ACP countries.
These funds must be focused by means of sub-headings, or ring-fenced in their financial perspectives.
I must reiterate that we must keep poverty eradication at the forefront of our development assistance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
This debate highlights how the EU institutions seem to rush into debates before fully preparing the ground.
In the brief time available, I would like to reflect on the period in which the financial perspective has been in operation.
A few of us were Members of this House in the 1980s, when we had turbulent budget debates that were not over-affected by the limits imposed, and then had the financial perspectives from 1988.
We are therefore right to call for these documents so that we can see exactly what basis has been used to assess how to ensure the European Union will work for 25 countries and how to ensure that Europe will become more competitive, and indeed meet its international obligations – the members of the European Council take decisions on our behalf, but very rarely provide us with the requisite budgetary framework.
There are therefore three points which we should include in our message to the incoming parliament and the incoming administration of the European Union.
Firstly, there must be a coherent strategy for the European Union in the years ahead so that we know what the Union's priorities are to be, both internally and externally.
Lastly, we need a period of consolidation during this financial perspective period, to make the European Union not only an effective operator internally and externally, but also an operator that is seen to be truly democratic and smooth-functioning.
If we try to take on too many of the ambitions harboured in certain quarters, our institutions will be incapable of fulfilling them. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, the Wynne report we are currently debating represents an initial response to the Communication from the Commission on the new Financial Perspective.
We Socialists always advocated deepening European integration because we believe it is beneficial to all the citizens.
The value of the financial perspective proposed by the Commission depends on what the balance of power between the budgetary authorities will be in the future.
If the end result is that the financial perspective creates a jointly agreed framework in which Parliament can participate fully in drafting the budget, it will be of great value.
My group is in favour of this.
There has to be investment, particularly in education, training and trainee exchange programmes, so that we will have better educated youth with a more international outlook that can take responsibility for its intellectual and material development in the future.
The other important priority is cohesion policy.
It is now vitally important to promote cohesion, as we are about to be joined by new Member States whose combined GDP is just 5% of that of the old Member States, although they make up 20% of the population.
One of the EU’s main objectives is the promotion of economic, social and regional equality.
Agenda 2000 maintained the ceiling for own resources and for funds, when enlargement to encompass a further six countries was already on the horizon.
The Commission’s current proposal, however, maintains the ceilings set in Agenda 2000, despite the fact that the current round of enlargement involves a further ten countries, plus another two, with incomes of less than 40% of the Community average.
Finally, as this is likely to be my last contribution in this House, I want to acknowledge the success of the European project.
There can be no doubt that Ireland's economic success would not have happened, and could not be sustained, outside the framework of EU membership. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very well-balanced report and provides a sound basis for the work of the next European Parliament without seeking to prejudice our successors’ decisions, which it could not do anyway.
For this reason it should be re-emphasised at the present juncture that, while the Union must, of course, provide itself with the means necessary to attain its objectives and carry through its policies, as prescribed by Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, it must equally ensure that contributions and appropriations are fairly distributed and that budgetary processes are open to scrutiny.
It is certainly true that, under the new headings, the Commission is concentrating on growth targets, employment and sustainability, but I must say that we should be all the more credible if this were not confined to the allocation of budgetary resources but were also reflected far more clearly in the application of the Community acquis and if we focused far more sharply on this aspect in the adoption and consolidation of European legislation.
Let me also say at this point that it is too soon to talk about figures today – whether 1%, 1.24% or somewhere in-between – because we must first deliberate carefully on these things on the basis of the constitutional discussion.
To this extent, the letter from the six leaders was neither helpful nor in any way expedient in its timing or its content.
We want to become the most competitive economic area, and we want to preserve a decent world for our children and grandchildren.
About four fifths of our budget is to be devoted to this aim. ‘Wonderful’ is all I can say to that!
I cannot find any reference to its ideas and proposals as to how the European budget is supposed to acquire the funds we intend to devote to the pursuit of our policies.
It would have been better if the Commission had accompanied the financial perspective with its ideas on how to reform the Union’s own resources.
I hope it does. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I should also add that this endeavour was complicated by impending enlargement, with many new countries covered by the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, and by the fact that the regional policy of the European Union basically needs to be reprogrammed from its foundations.
I think that both the third cohesion report, as presented by the European Commission, and the position of the European Parliament clearly demonstrate the usefulness of this policy.
I also think that the first message which needs to be made clear from this debate here is that the European Parliament and the European Commission are against any thoughts of renationalising this policy.
Consequently, we agree with the European Commission which, in all events, has adopted a European Parliament proposal on this.
We consider that there should be special policies not only within the framework of regional policy, of cohesion policy, but also more generally in the other sectoral policies of the European Union.
The presentation of that report is to be seen in the context of the proposal for the financial perspective, which we had also adopted in February before the cohesion report.
The Commission is calling for a new partnership for cohesion.
It must be our common will not only to build a Europe based on the common market but to build a Europe characterised both by a keener competitive edge and by more solidarity, a Europe that is more capable of achieving the aims set at Lisbon and Gothenburg, namely sustainable development and a knowledge-based economy.
The imminent enlargement on 1&#160;May, which will integrate many economically weak regions into the European Union, makes it even more urgent and even more crucial that Europe should pursue a robust policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
The Commission has made strenuous efforts to respect the wishes of the various European institutions and regional and local authorities as far as possible in its proposals for the next planning period from 2007 to 2013.
The report, in other words, does not simply reflect the ideas of a single Commissioner but is the product of a comprehensive broad-based debate, to which the European Parliament has also made significant contributions.
The fifth and last proposal is that the measures for the promotion of interregional cooperation should be restructured on the basis of our experience with Interreg.
We shall press, firstly, for the creation of a single fund for rural development which would consolidate all the resources that exist at the present time.
Secondly, there should be a single regulation in which all the measures for the development of rural areas are defined, and, thirdly, due priority should be assigned to rural development in the financial perspective.
Similarly, we hope for continuing availability of innovative measures as currently allowed under Article 6.
The structural support provided by the European Union contributes substantially to the development of rural areas.
For this reason, it remains essential that we have adequate resources at our disposal over and above the CAP budget.
I believe that rural areas must be active and appealing if they are to be capable of creating new jobs, more output and income opportunities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities has given a positive opinion on all the proposals made and we want to thank the rapporteur for agreeing to include in his report certain aspects of the gender dimension that were missing from the documents.
That seems to us absolutely essential because progress remains totally inadequate despite an avowed willingness to promote equality between women and men all these years past.
Firstly, the situation of women in the new Member States, which requires special attention.
Our group supports the committee’s line, that there should be adequate funding for cohesion policy and reviews made of state aid policies, that there should not be any renationalisation of regional policy and that areas with permanent difficulties, islands, sparsely populated and mountainous regions, and regions subject to the statistical effect should receive special treatment.
An effective regional policy, however, means that other policies have to support its aims alongside aid policies.
A certain freedom is also required in regional development, for example in state subsidies, without competition necessarily becoming endangered or distorted.
It is especially important to maintain the good practices we have learned from the Leader, URBAN and EQUAL Community initiatives.
To justify the work of the EU there is an urgent need for a certain regional approach to issues and an understanding of the user’s point of view. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wishes to add its thanks to the rapporteur, who has really taken pains to produce a balanced report, a particularly difficult task in view of the short time at his disposal.
Essential aims for which Parliament has been campaigning are underemphasised, aims such as sustainable development or consistency between structural policy on the one hand and environmental legislation and the Commission’s environmental targets on the other.
To give but one example, the common policy on climate change must be a component of the future cohesion policy, and this must also be reflected in the choice of projects.
The regulation on the structural funds must not be organised from above – and this is particularly important, in my view – but in cooperation, on a basis of equality, with local players.
A policy of achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion by 2013, as required by Article 3 of the draft constitution, therefore seems within reach.
This policy is part of the idea of the EU bringing old and new members together in a common project.
The Structural Funds’ involvement in the French overseas departments until 2013 strikes me as generally encouraging, but I await the forthcoming report that the Commission is to adopt on the implementation of Article 299(2); this will provide greater detail on the specific funds and the action plan for the , which ought to benefit the outermost regions.
The battle of figures that some are beginning to use polemically in fact masks a fundamental debate about our ambitions for Europe, something which requires a constructive and rational interinstitutional dialogue.
I want to congratulate the Commission in coming forward with proposals which, in a spirit of solidarity, provide funding for those areas of the EU-15 – including the UK – that are still in need.
However, this report and these proposals indicate that our poorest regions could win twice over from enlargement, with a bigger internal market and a continuation of regional aid.
I hope that Member States, the Commission and Parliament will now come up with a comprehensive budget and a regional aid package which will be a good deal for taxpayers and a good deal for our poorest regions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to use the short time available to me to express my surprise and dismay at the lack of interest and the contempt shown in the debates in this Parliament to the harsh reality that, in a Union of twenty-five States, cohesion policy will lose its character.
I would recall that, with the enlargement to ten new States, the population living in territories with a per capita income of less than ...% of the Community average, will rise from the current 73&#160;million people, or 19%, to 153&#160;million people, or 32%, of the Union of twenty-seven Member States.
For those of us who believe in the need for a Social Europe, and for me, as a Galician, this is totally unacceptable – all the more so because income in the enlargement countries stands at only 40% of the average income per inhabitant of the Fifteen and because in the current Member States there is still a clear need to maintain the Structural Funds levels of previous years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, in the third report on economic and social cohesion, the right path has been chosen, leading to a reformed European cohesion policy with a new architecture and targeted interventions.
Equally right is the decision to accord equal treatment to the regions that are subject to the statistical effect in the framework of the new convergence objective.
I therefore wish to refer at this point to last September’s parliamentary resolution based on the Mastorakis report.
The resolution not only emphasised the need to pay special attention to the level of support given to those regions suffering from the statistical effects of enlargement but also stressed that the Commission should focus the same attention on the administration of aid to these regions.
It must not, however, encourage or sow the seeds of new injustices.
People will not understand or support a Europe that rewards companies for shifting jobs from one region and then only providing the same number of jobs elsewhere because we are subsidising the relocation.
It is very positive to note that our Parliament accepts by an overwhelming majority firstly, that any renationalisation of regional policy would be devastating even to the very existence of the European Union, of which it is a basic connective fabric, secondly, that the so-called statistical effect of enlargement – of any enlargement – would be addressed in such a way as to ensure continuing support for the regions for which it was considered necessary before enlargement, in order not to interrupt their progress towards development, thirdly, that the special regions from the point of view of natural disadvantages will also need to receive special treatment and finally, that the cohesion policy, which is indeed an essential tool to enable the Union to achieve the Lisbon objectives, has provided important results to date.
In the enlarged EU, we need a distribution policy that shows solidarity, in order to reduce disparities and to compensate regions situated far from the large markets.
Secondly, on the matter of the budget, we must come up with the resources that are required to make EU enlargement a success and make headway with growth in Europe.
Fourthly, the Commission must ensure that the extreme, sparsely populated regions take their rightful place in the future Structural Fund Regulation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, as you know and as you see, the European Parliament remains very vigilant about the future of regional policy, one of the most important policies in the eyes of the citizens.
It is essential that the future expenditure ceiling should allow this policy to be strengthened after enlargement.
There is a very great difference between the Commission’s proposals for 1.24% of gross domestic income (GDI) and the 1% proposed by six States, and regional policy runs the risk of being used as a balancing item for European politics.
The Structural Funds are in fact essential to European solidarity.
The intention is that measures previously implemented in the framework of individual Community initiatives will be integrated into the mainstream programmes.
In this way, we can ensure, for example, that the Equal programme or measures designed specifically to promote equal treatment of both sexes are given their rightful place in the main programmes.
The question of the territorial aspect of state aid and the necessary definition of areas eligible for support is indeed a highly sensitive issue, and then there is the concern in some quarters that there could be difficulties in areas bordering on supported regions.
On the other hand, however, I cannot subscribe to the view expressed by one Member that our policy will lose its cohesive character after enlargement.
A mere financial adjustment of the type that some are seeking or have mooted will not, in my opinion, achieve our aim. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; . – The report acknowledges enormous disparities between regions, which will inevitably worsen as a result of this round of enlargement, that strengthening economic and social cohesion is an obligation under the Single Act, and that structural investments in the cohesion regions benefit the Union’s other economies.
It does, however, deem 0.41% to be an acceptable minimum level for the allocation.
It also calls for more effective monitoring of the ways in which the Funds are used and for a more focused strategy with regard to industrial restructuring and its social impact.
It has adopted our proposal for regions that suffer permanent handicaps.
I trust that at least my colleagues on the Committee&#160;on&#160;Budgets and I will be able to vote in December along with our new colleagues from the new Member&#160;States.
I should like to take this opportunity of emphasising that the opinions of the other parliamentary committees will be taken into account at first reading of the budget.
This budgetary limit will affect many programmes and will call for a particular effort to improve the distribution of appropriations between ongoing functions and new priorities.
With regard to the Structural&#160;Funds, we point to the improved implementation of appropriations in 2003, despite retaining a very high RAL.
Parliament is also concerned about implementation of communication and information policy.
The new Financial&#160;Regulation must not hinder the development of the latter.
The Commission will adopt the preliminary draft for the 2005 budget within the next few weeks.
At the first reading by the Council in July, under the Dutch Presidency, 25 Member States will be represented, and the MEPs from 25 Member States will take part in the first parliamentary reading in October.
The budget of 2005 will thus be presented to a host of new faces, not least within the Commission.
It also means an increase in the financial commitments from the Structural Funds, as agreed in Copenhagen.
The Structural Funds are the main instrument with which the European Union gives financial assistance to the new Member States in order to narrow the prosperity gap, and they should remain the principal instrument of cohesion policy in the future too.
At the consultation before the first reading of the budget for 2005, I shall report to you on the latest progress in the programming of the Structural Funds for the new Member States.
The political priority attaching to enlargement is also reflected in administrative expenditure: the Commission will, as stated in the communication of 2002 and reiterated a few moments ago by your general rapporteur, apply for the next batch of additional posts for enlargement.
Lending new dynamism to economic growth in Europe is a task for the Member States and the Union, a task that will help to shape the next few years.
Additional efforts are, however, needed to tap the full potential of the enlarged single market.
These efforts receive financial backing from the EU budget, not only through the Structural Funds but also, for example, with the funds allocated to the trans-European networks, and provision has been made for an increase in these funds next year.
The funds earmarked for measures such as the creation of a chemicals-testing agency are essential expenditure if we are to ensure that the new approach to chemicals policy, which involves testing old substances for their impact on the environment and public health, does not become a bureaucratic impediment to the chemical industry but should actually speed up the innovation process.
The dreadful events of 11&#160;September 2001 and the savage terrorist acts in Madrid have clearly emphasised the danger emanating from terrorism.
In the European Union we need more cooperation, more effective cooperation, in order to protect our citizens from such dangers.
The measures envisaged in this domain are another priority for the 2005 budget, and I note that all the institutions are in agreement on this point too.
The internal security of the European Union and its role in the field of foreign policy are inseparable.
This means in practice that the budget for the common foreign policy will be reduced in real terms.
Let us hope, and let us all play our part in ensuring, that next year’s Iraq agenda really can be devoted to reconstruction. 2005 is the sixth year of the Financial Perspective that is now in force.
When a planning period nears its end, the room for manoeuvre becomes increasingly limited as more and more funds are tied up in advance by decisions made in previous years.
For 2005 the current financial plans provide for EUR 119 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 114 billion in payment appropriations, which corresponds to 1.09% of gross national income.
There will be a need for close and fruitful cooperation among all participants if we are to reach a timely agreement on the budget for 2005.
These SMEs should be operating successfully on behalf of Europe in the global marketplace, which is another reason why I believe that the WTO assembly and parliamentary conference proposed by the European Parliament are a matter of the utmost priority, and I ask the Commission to incorporate this proposal from the European Parliament into the programme too. &#160;&#160; .
We had three main priorities in our committee.
It has, therefore, become necessary for the Commission, in the preliminary draft budget, to anticipate some of the consequences of this enlargement, providing for sufficient funds, for example, for intervention measures for certain products, such as butter or beef, in the event that the new Member States cannot bring their prices into line quickly or, for example, veterinary funds to combat animal diseases, which could increase following the disappearance of the current borders.
I would finally like to stress that the Committee on Agriculture, in its opinion in this report, has expressed its firm support for the introduction of a pilot project for the funding of Community insurance intended to alleviate the consequences of disasters caused by extreme climatic phenomena. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer, two hours ago, in my role as spokeswoman for the Committee on Fisheries, I expressed my confidence that European fisheries do indeed have a future.
I therefore call for due consideration in the 2005 budget of at least the main areas of action of the common fisheries policy.
Fourthly, we need sufficient resources for the new fisheries agreements as well as for EU participation in international fisheries organisations and, fifthly, we need adequate funding to compensate the coastal regions hit by the effects of recovery plans and emergency measures.
In the budget for 2005, the aim must now be to build a robust and sustainable financial substructure that will finally enable the fishing industry to become profitable again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the new annual policy strategy instrument allows the legislative and budgetary cycles to be combined and makes a political reading of our budget easier.
We believe it is essential that policies that have been codecided should really be entered in the budget without sacrificing other European policies; this will require a higher income than proposed.
It is therefore imperative that budget resources be concentrated on employment, innovation and social cohesion policies.
We must in that way ensure that the social partners take part in modernisation talks.
We are agreed in recognising the essential part played by small firms in modernising employment.
It must be made easier to support non-governmental organisations in the social sector and we shall have to find a way to put an end to their financial insecurity.
Finally, I agree with our rapporteur that information and communication are areas to which the Commission needs to give greater priority and on which it must take action.
Not only must these budget lines be funded, but more especially the Commission must fully realise what its role is in this information policy because all policies must come back to and finish with the citizen. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Schreyer, ‘gender budgeting’ must become more than a mere linguistic monstrosity.
Gender mainstreaming must be put into practice and must be made quantifiable in terms of euros.
In the European Community, more women are victims of violence within the family than are victims of terrorism.
For this reason, we call for 2006 to be declared the European Year against Violence.
We expect the Commission to apply gender mainstreaming in all areas of political activity, and the 2005 budget, the first in the greater European Union, should provide us with the main indicators of its application. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my sincere thanks to our rapporteur, who has presented an excellent report in difficult circumstances, given that all of us are already either preparing or waging an electoral campaign.
Budgetary authority is vested in other institutions, and our Parliament is one of them.
The Commission’s task is to take account of the will of the budgetary authority.
I wish to emphasise that clearly and may I also say that the Commission should rethink its political approach to the adoption of preparatory measures in connection with its visa policy, the Schengen information system and its refugee policy.
Various directorates-general have adopted very different political approaches in this matter, and the Commission is surely duty-bound to pursue a coherent overall approach.
Let me forewarn you clearly that we shall be examining very carefully whether 700 posts are really needed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer, in discussing the budget for 2005, we have, of course, merely set the ball rolling.
On the one hand, we want to make enlargement work and must therefore create the appropriate conditions.
We shall also discuss the budget in the light of the debate on the financial perspective, because this 2005 budget will be the last but one before the new financial perspective.
We Europeans must engage in international politics, whether in the field of foreign policy, where we must work to prevent conflict, or in the sphere of internal security, to which you have referred, where we must play our part in a concerted effort to combat international crime.
As in the preceding years, we shall try to ensure that the budget on the table in front of us is a tight one, even in the conditions I have just described.
Next year’s budget will be a difficult one, with the accession of ten new Member States, bringing with them nine new official languages.
The new Member States have to be included in the work of the EU as a whole.
Administration must move more in the direction of activity-based management, where what is most important is better productivity and cost-effectiveness.
Regarding the structure of the budget, we have to improve its degree of informativeness: it must be clearly evident what the costs and achievements of individual policy areas are.
The Member States seem to want to achieve the objectives of Lisbon mainly through a kind of management by speech, as money and real social policy are not being put on the table.
We are faced with new challenges, given that spending levels must, anyway, be maintained in order to guarantee a certain level of growth, while taking into account new requirements, always and in any case on the basis of financial discipline that must be respected, above all through parliamentary control.
Due to the specific situation arising in the drafting of the estimates for 2005 this year, with the forthcoming enlargement on 1 May and the European elections in June, a number of issues and uncertainties are still outstanding which cannot be resolved until shortly before the first reading in September this year.
I view the main objective for 2005 as achieving sound financial management and budgetary rigour and providing value for money for the European taxpayer.
We can reach a consensus on the matter itself, but it is ultimately inopportune to take a decision based on a report which does not show all the appropriations.
That is the reason why I would ask you to bring your influence to bear so that this particular amendment is withdrawn tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, Commissioner Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my warm thanks to the rapporteur who dealt with the issue of Parliament's preliminary estimates for 2005 with his customary flair.
It is very important that on the one hand, we jointly contribute to ensuring that in terms of its administration, the European Parliament is able to master the challenges of enlargement fully.
After all, we are the institution which is most affected, because all the languages must be available from 1 May and we have very different working methods from the Commission, the Council, the Court of Justice or the Court of Auditors.
Members from three Member States are involved.
What these Members should be doing, quite simply, is helping to ensure that the health system in their own countries functions effectively, then they would not need any over-provision at European level.
I hope, Mr Kuckelkorn, that after the European elections – I am assuming that the voters will be merciful and draw the line at number 30 on your party list so we still have the pleasure of your company, whereas I am in a position where I can be rather more confident – we will be able to adopt this budget jointly, for it is extremely important that in our capacity as the representatives of Europe's citizens, we address this task very seriously and thus help ensure that Europe does not drift away from its citizens.
We are committed to it, and we intend to remain committed to it after 13 June as well. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Commission was determined to rectify and strengthen its relevant rules and practices, and to fully implement the staff and financial reform begun in 2000.
One main forum for these discussions involved the Committee on Budgetary Control when the follow-up to the 2001 discharge was dealt with and when information was provided on the Commission reforms.
The Commission acknowledges the careful and thorough monitoring work undertaken by Parliament and its bodies in the discharge process, and in its other monitoring activities, with regard to the Eurostat case.
It is grateful for the concern and commitment that the Committee on Budgetary Control continues to demonstrate in relation to the implementation of the Commission reform.
With comprehensive modernisation of structures, systems, internal controls and management and personnel policy now in place, the Commission will continue to review actions taken and improvements made, so as to maximise the safeguards against any repetition of the practices detected in Eurostat or any similar conduct.
For all of these reasons, the report for which I have the honour of being rapporteur consists, as usual, of three important documents.
On the one hand, the discharge of the accounts is submitted to this plenum and, secondly, what is proposed is that the management should be discharged, rather than postponed, accompanied by recommendations which make up a resolution covering very diverse aspects, some of which I will comment on very briefly.
In accordance with the Treaties, the Commission has exclusive responsibility for financial management, but it is also the case that eighty per cent of that financial management is in the hands of, or carried out with the crucially important cooperation of, the Member States or third States.
Furthermore, the report deals with the issues of Commission reform.
This concerns substantial reform in the field of financial management which involves its decentralisation and the allocation of responsibility to the Directors-General which is reviewed every year in the annual statement of activities.
This mechanism has been updated over the years and this report suggests further improvements.
Within the reform of the Commission, the issue of Eurostat is raised.
It is also the case, however, that Eurostat has also served as an incentive for certain important reforms undertaken by the Commission, including detecting some of the defects which existed, such as the relationship between the Directors-General and the Commissioners, which has been considerably enhanced in the Commission’s third progress report and in relation to which we must expect further substantial improvements.
Within the context of this general reform of the Commission, we are also seeing a reform of accounting procedures, an important reform which must reconcile a dual system of budgetary management based on both cash-based and accrual-based accounting.
The report also addresses problems of coordination between the various control structures and, fundamentally, the establishment, within the Directorates-General, of the relationship between the internal audit service and the Commissioners.
With regard to the various policies that are analysed, in the field of own resources a more direct connection is proposed which reduces the tension that exists between net contributors and the other countries.
I would also like to thank Bent Adamsen and Marianella Martínez, who have helped me, and the Executive Commission and the Court of Auditors for their cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I drafted the report on the discharge for the European Development Fund.
In our discussions on this in the committee, we had a broad consensus on our analysis of the development of the European Development Fund, and also on our decisions regarding the report.
I have also enjoyed very constructive cooperation with the Commission and the Court of Auditors, and I should like to thank the institutions for that.
This is important because, according to all plans, more and more aid will in future be given in the form of direct budgetary support.
The Court of Auditors is also very critical regarding the annual declaration of the Director-General of the competent Directorate-General.
When we asked the Commission for actual reports evaluating various projects in various ACP States, it took a very long time to procure these reports.
This confirms much of what we feared during this work, namely that Headquarters in Brussels has an inadequate overview of the work in the Delegations.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left and I shall not be voting in favour of granting discharge to the Council or the Committee of the Regions and, in our opinion, the votes on discharge for these two institutions should have been postponed.
I think that this runs counter to the spirit of this discharge process as a whole, which should be open and transparent.
The committee still rejects several of the main conclusions from OLAF’s investigation.
The matter of reimbursement to MEPs will be an issue in these elections whether we like it or not, but Parliament only has itself to blame.
We are also of the opinion that the existing system for taxi fares should be revised.
Whereas the Commission was sensible enough, in this case at least, to vote in favour of suspending this illegal practice for its Members from 1 January 2003, the Court of Justice has reintroduced these increases in remuneration retrospectively on the basis of an internal administrative ruling.
The Court of Justice should set an example and be particularly scrupulous in the conduct of its internal affairs.
The same applies to the provision whereby Members of the Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors can use official cars for their private purposes to a quite excessive degree.
Nor will I conceal the fact that once again, as has already been mentioned, problems have arisen with financial management and staffing at the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
I really cannot say the same of the Members of the Commission, and the agencies make a refreshing change in this respect.
After the Eurostat scandal, the dismissal of the Chief Accountant and the discovery of a completely inadequate accounting system deployed by this Commission to manage – or should I say mismanage – a budget of some EUR 100 billion, I will not be voting in favour of discharge for the Commission.
Commissioner Fischler's comments a few moments ago about Eurostat also did not tell us anything we did not already know.
I would like to find out from the Commissioner responsible why this Commission statement has just been delivered by the Agriculture Commissioner – have you concluded that Eurostat is an agricultural problem as well, or was there some other reason for this?
I would like to congratulate the Secretary-General on the result that we are hopefully going to deliver tomorrow, which would be a positive discharge for the European Parliament.
The cooperation has been excellent and the Secretary-General, together with all his staff, has done a very good job of running the Parliament over the last five years in the face of mounting challenges, not least of which is enlargement.
The criticism contained in my report is not aimed at Parliament's staff or the Secretary-General.
My mission for the last five years has been to try to reform the institutions to make them more legitimate and credible in the eyes of our citizens.
Here I would like to pay tribute to Commissioner Schreyer and her colleagues who have done a great job over the last five years, again in the face of very difficult challenges.
No matter how big the differences in salary between MEPs from different countries, and no matter how unfair that is – especially when the new Member States come in – we cannot continue to justify this system.
The vote tomorrow will be an opportunity for this House to show that we are in touch with the real world, that we are prepared to put our own House in order and to clean up our act.
This is a beautiful Assembly and an even more beautiful city, but we should not meet here for only four days per week.
The Commission and the Council are based in Brussels.
If we are to be a credible democratic assembly, defending the interests of the citizens of Europe, then we should be where the other powerful institutions are – with the Council and the Commission.
I do not believe that anyone doubts those two countries get on together – perhaps a little too well at times!
The citizens are looking for efficient, modern institutions that are capable of managing European integration and the policies we have agreed together.
I hope that tomorrow we will also give President Cox a mandate to go to the Intergovernmental Conference and say that we need to change the Treaty in this respect.
We need to give Parliament the right to decide its own seat.
We signed a reform pledge which commits the signatories to the reform of our expenses system and to work for a single seat for Parliament in Brussels.
Parliament has now included additional items, namely statements on the situation in the Middle East and a debate about the vote of non-confidence, on the agenda.
In other words, the agenda would now continue with the debate about Croatia.
The Commission is also publishing today its first European partnership with Croatia, which sets out priorities for both the short term and the medium term.
In politics we very often overuse the word 'historic', but this is indeed a historic day for Croatia and this is an occasion which I know gives both Commissioner Verheugen and myself considerable personal pleasure.
Croatia is the first of the Western Balkan countries to get to this stage, although I know that – perfectly understandably – Croatia would prefer a rather different description.
It is not a surprise that Croatia has reached this stage well ahead of any of its neighbours.
Croatia applied for membership in February 2003 and the Council asked us to prepare our opinion in April of that year, so it has taken us a year of hard work.
I do not want to keep honourable Members in suspense, so let me tell you straight away that the College has decided today to recommend to the Council that accession negotiations be started with Croatia in due course.
From the very beginning, it became clear that the most important areas for consideration were the political criteria set out in Copenhagen in 1993.
Second, Croatia's relations with its neighbours have not been entirely smooth recently.
It is important that Croatia implements properly its legislation on minority rights.
All eight were transferred to The Hague within a week or so of their indictments.
There remains the question of former General Ante Gotovina.
So, both our criteria have been met in full and the way is now clear for a positive assessment on this crucial issue.
It is a matter for the Irish presidency to choose the date for the Council's consideration of our ; I know that Member States will be watching this question very closely between now and then.
I would like to congratulate all those with whom we have worked over the past few years, and who have laid the foundations for this decision.
I would like to congratulate the present government on what it has done, and I hope this moment will be one for celebration in Croatia.
The question is whether the country meets the requirements of a market economy as we expect it to do and whether it has the capacity to cope with competitive pressure within the internal market.
From the economic perspective, we therefore see no problems or risks arising if accession negotiations are opened with Croatia.
Here, Croatia will rely on our help, and it goes without saying that the Commission is prepared to grant Croatia the same support and advice that it has provided over the last few years to the countries which are due to accede on 1 May.
Here too, then, our assessment is positive.
A tailor-made pre-accession strategy will also have to be developed for Croatia, and the Commission is already dealing with this.
Please note that in this instance, ‘concise’ means one minute. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, my congratulations to Commissioner Patten, Commissioner Verheugen and Minister Zuzul, who has worked hard over the last several months to make up the large amount of ground lost by Croatia.
I am sure that the United Kingdom Government will, as ever, take close note of what the honourable Member has said and I am sure – this also relates to the point that Baroness Ludford made – that both the government in the United Kingdom and the government in the Netherlands will want to reflect on the issue of ratification in view of the comments of the chief prosecutor at The Hague.
I would like to respond to what the honourable Member said about regional cooperation.
My colleague Commissioner Verheugen may wish to add to what I have to say on the question of the timetable, but in my experience from watching him deal with enlargement over the last few years, the timetable depends above all on the efforts made by the states concerned.
Is the Commission willing to recommend that this very specific tribunal, the chief prosecutor herself, continues to be involved in the future with monitoring Croatia's cooperation with this tribunal? &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I would like to say how delighted I am that this day has arrived.
As Chairwoman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South-East Europe, and on behalf of all those who have no opportunity to speak today, I would like to express my warm thanks to the two Commissioners.
We have timed the presentation of our report so that the Council has enough time to prepare itself before reaching a decision at the European Council meeting in June.
In my experience, the European Council is always grateful for guidance and advice from the European Parliament.
I have two concrete questions.
My second question concerns the regional coordination centre for social policy for the Balkans.
I have one specific question: are any efforts being made by the European Commission to assist the two countries of Slovenia and Croatia to resolve their border issue in the Piran Bay so that a solution can be reached here as swiftly as possible in a European spirit?
It is an extremely important part of the strategy we have been developing since the Thessaloniki European Council.
Clearly, this is principally a matter for them, but we stand ready to use our good offices where these might be helpful.
This is something that both Commissioner Verheugen and I have already been involved in.
However, this Parliament in particular deserves to be treated very seriously, not least as its mandate draws to a close. &#160;&#160; That concludes the item. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B5-0071/2004).
Nevertheless, the Member States are free to apply these Directives in the manner they consider most appropriate to satisfying national conditions and needs, and also to establish stricter minimum rules provided that they conform to Community rules and, in particular, the principles of the Treaty.
In other words, we are leaving a margin for subsidiarity in order to adapt and apply the Directives in the most appropriate way in line with the reality and diversity of the various Member States.
The Commission considers it essential to guarantee a common level of true openness of the electricity markets of the various States and under equal conditions.
Within this context, following the adoption of Directive 96/92/EC, that is, the first Directive on electricity, the Commission published an annual comparative evaluation report in which it examined the application of the internal market in gas and electricity in all the States of the Union.
These reports demonstrated a significant difference between the true levels of openness of the market.
In any event, this will result in a reduction of the current asymmetries between the various European Union markets, and will make it possible to achieve what has been the aim since the first Directive: to integrate the European area into a single electricity and gas market, doing away with the borders that remain today and preventing something we do not want: 15 markets, or 25 markets from 1 May, in electricity and gas.
Our aim is to create a European market, an integrated single market in electricity and gas. &#160;&#160; Commissioner de Palacio, first of all my thanks for the information provided.
In any event, we are going to continue carrying out periodic analyses of the true picture of the implementation of the measures adopted and naturally – I repeat – if any Member State fails to implement the Directives and Regulations properly and does not put them into practice appropriately, Mr Ebner, I have no doubt that we will bring the matter before the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, as we did in certain cases in which there was a delay, for example, in implementing the gas Directive or, simply, a transposition not complying with the content of the Directive.
In both cases we referred the matter to the Court of Justice and we resolved them amicably with the States in question without the need for an arduous procedure.
There is also a merging of certain bodies and, furthermore, I believe that recently a certain well-known person has been appointed or selected, who is going to do an excellent job of his new responsibilities in relation to development, specifically on the Portuguese side, as the former Portuguese Minister for the Economy is well aware, and I hope that it will soon be a reality.
The voluntary agreements which have been implemented are functioning in a very positive way and are facilitating exchanges in the electricity sector to an enormous degree.
A confirmation of the principles agreed at international and European level, an analysis of the factors which hamper and the factors which contribute to the success of corporate social responsibility and a series of recommendations on corporate social responsibility for the attention of the members of the Forum or the institutions of the European Union and other agencies.
The report will be based on the results of discussions and the knowledge acquired from a series of round table events held between January 2003 and March 2004 in order to analyse some 50 multilateral case studies.
As stated in the Commission communication on corporate social responsibility in June 2002 and in the interim review of the social political agenda in March 2003, the Commission will evaluate the results of the Forum and will issue a new communication a few months after the submission of the Forum's report.
The European Parliament has been involved in the Multistakeholder Forum procedure since the outset, with the MEP Richard Howitt acting as observer.
The new communication on corporate social responsibility will be addressed to the institutions of the European Union.
I therefore expect the dialogue on this matter to continue and to bear fruit. &#160;&#160; I understand it must be difficult for the Commission to give more precise answers in these final months.
However, I want to make it clear that to many Members of this Parliament, across many different committees – I am a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation – this piece of work on corporate social responsibility is extremely important.
I am very pleased that the Commissioner responsible for development has come in at this point as I wish to ask which Commission department – Social Affairs or other – will continue to lead in this area, and how coordination will continue within the Commission, because this issue cuts across many different departments there.
It is very positive that all the agencies invited to take part in the Forum accepted the invitation and that significant progress has been made and that everyone has agreed, as you said, for the process to continue.
A study is due to be submitted in about October 2004. &#160;&#160; Following on from the question about the timetable, I should like to make a comment.
However, I hope that you were also glad that I was there for some of the time as rapporteur on the White Paper.
These powers are, first, the legislative measures which exist.
The directive on collective redundancies, the directive on European works councils and the more recent directive on informing and consulting workers constitute the legal framework for protecting workers' rights and safeguarding equivalent conditions.
Secondly, there are the Structural Funds, which provide important economic support for economic and social change in areas with structural difficulties.
Furthermore, in 2002, the Commission requested the opinion of the social partners on a text entitled ‘Anticipating and managing change – a dynamic approach to the social aspects of corporate restructuring’.
The Commission accepted with satisfaction the joint text submitted to it by the social partners in October 2003.
Restructuring is also included as a key topic in the joint programme of work approved by the social partners in November 2002.
We need to make use of these guidelines in order to respond better to the challenges which we face in this particular sector.
They include: the need for changes to be explained and for the reasons for them to be stated, the importance of maintaining and developing workers' skills, the importance of complementarity and cooperation between the various factors when restructuring affects an entire region, the particular situation of small- and medium-sized enterprises and the practical aspects of managing restructuring, which include the importance of investigating all possible alternative solutions in order to avoid redundancies.
Finally, we must not forget our important work on corporate social responsibility and the European Observatory for Industrial Change.
It is up to the social partners and other third parties to negotiate a possible re-examination of the closure with the company.
It is therefore up to the national authorities, including the judicial authorities, to assess the extent to which national legislation has been duly and effectively applied. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to start by providing some background to this case.
In a memorandum dated 17&#160;March, the executive board of informed the workers in its factory in Amadora, Portugal, about the restructuring of the group, in particular involving the termination of 5&#160;680 positions in various European countries by the end of 2005.
In Portugal, 400 direct jobs will be lost, not counting the indirect jobs that depend on .
I must also say that this specific company, Bombardier, has 35 factories in Europe, a large number of which are, of course, closing.
We should make our economy more competitive because only if industries and businesses are competitive can we have better technology, produce all the products you mentioned previously (whether technologically advanced or not) and have more and better jobs in the European Union. &#160;&#160; I should like to point out to the House that significantly more jobs are being lost in four plants in the United Kingdom as a result of this closure than anywhere else.
I am glad, therefore, to have the opportunity to ask some questions and to send our sympathies to those people involved.
The President has taken very good note and we will forward this communication to the Commission.
You are aware that questions in Part III are not replied to orally but in writing.
The criteria that the Commission takes into account for converting pilot projects into preparatory actions and then into multiannual programmes are essentially based on the evaluation of the results of the project or action, the response from the specialised sectors involved and the political will expressed by the budgetary and legislative authorities to pursue the action.
A pilot project may start some three to five years before the possible adoption of a legal base, provided that the results of the pilot scheme are positive and that the preparatory action decided by the budgetary authority is successful.
The results of the preparatory action were positive with regard to the opportunity and convenience of sustained support for these innovative synergy projects, and the e-learning programme was born.
The Daphne programme came into force in 2000, after the Commission had implemented pilot and preparatory actions in 1997, 1998 and 1999, in which year a legal base was proposed and adopted.
The European Parliament strongly supported both these programmes.
As provided for in Article 49 of the financial regulation, the Commission will, when the preliminary draft budget for 2005 is published, also provide the budgetary authority with an assessment of the results of pilot schemes and preparatory actions entered in the budget for 2004.
I understand the point you are making in terms of preparatory action, but I wondered whether you could comment on whether actual budgetary provision will be covered under the action taken in the 2005 budgets.
In the last two years there were good preliminary discussions between the Commission and Parliament on ideas for preparatory actions and pilot projects.
As I recently told Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the Commission continues to make good progress on this matter.
It is intended to put forward a proposal for a directive to be adopted shortly after final agreement is reached in Basle by the middle of this year.
Furthermore, in response to the request by the European Council in Barcelona in March 2002, the Commission commissioned an impact study and report from Pricewaterhouse Coopers.
The final version of this report has now been made available to the Commission.
The new risk-sensitive framework will be good for financial institutions, good for consumers and good for the economy as a whole, with a more efficient allocation of capital.
The report also identifies some defined areas where the proposals contained in the Commission's third consultative paper should be further improved.
The key factor is that the report should be made available in good time to inform the European legislative process.
You say that we will receive the report in good time.
The Basel Committee expects to reach a conclusion by the middle of this year.
For us in this House, however, it is especially important to find out how the introduction of Basel II will impact on our small- and medium-sized businesses in particular and which tasks still have to be addressed by the finance ministers and others in order to ensure the successful introduction of Basel II.
I think that here, the Commission should demonstrate, with some form of best-practice/benchmark impact analysis, how the successful introduction of Basel II can be guaranteed. &#160;&#160; .
For example, there are discounts in the capital charges for lending to smaller entities.
The results of the third impact study show that the new rules are good news for loans to SMEs.
The capital requirements proposed in our third consultation paper reflect that higher level of risk.
At the same time, we have been working with industry to see whether there are data that may suggest that for certain types of investment lower requirements may be justified.
The Commission will do its best to bring the proposed directive to the notice of Parliament as quickly as possible.
On the basis of its current assessment, the Commission does not, for the time being, intend to propose a directive along the lines set out in the above-mentioned Californian law, since it has not been demonstrated that there is a need for European legislation on that issue to supplement Member States' legislation, in particular penal law.
There is no information suggesting that theft of unencrypted personal data stored in computer systems represents a serious problem for the proper functioning of the free flow of personal data in the internal market, or for the protection of such data.
The Commission will analyse complaints in that area in view of recent rulings of the European Court of Justice.
In addition, the Commission intends to launch a study this year to collect the information required to examine the need for and scope of a possible new internal market Community initiative in the field of gambling services. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank the Commissioner for a very positive reply.
Firstly, would he agree that it would be desirable for the proposed directive on the internal market for services to cover gambling in this way?
The second issue – which he did not touch on – was the ability of governments to try and include public interest and consumer protection issues to prevent gambling operators from setting up in their jurisdiction while, at the same time, actively promoting their own state lotteries and gambling businesses.
On the first question about gambling and the directive on services, this directive includes for gambling services an exemption to the country-of-origin principle that would no longer apply if a Community harmonisation instrument were in place.
The Commission will assess whether it should present a proposal for harmonised EU-wide rules on gambling services on the basis of a report that it will put in hand this year.
The questions that have been raised by Mr Paasilinna cannot be the subject of an initiative of the Commission based on the fundamental freedoms of the internal market, provided for in Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty, because the purpose of those provisions is to regulate situations with a cross-border element.
They may therefore directly affect the media, but as an economic activity.
For example, the Merger Regulation assigns the task to the Commission to establish whether or not media concentrations with a Community dimension are compatible with the common market.
It should furthermore be recalled that the Commission supports the inclusion in the draft Constitutional Treaty of Article 11(2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which establishes the principle of respect by the Union of the freedom and pluralism of the media.
Their content are products offered by different media companies and they therefore move along the borders of the European Union.
I could name such companies but the Commissioner might be able to think of some of them himself.
As to the two new questions, firstly, the Council decided on 5 June 2003 to reduce the profile of Member States' participation in cultural events.
This measure implies limiting the presence of Member States' representatives in cultural events taking place in Cuba and has to be seen as a symbolic gesture.
It is not designed to reduce cultural activities in Cuba, or limit their funding.
Member States with established cultural programmes continued their activities in Cuba.
Secondly, it would have been more correct to speak about insults towards heads of governments rather than heads of states.
The Spanish Prime Minister was insulted in a speech by President Castro on 26 July and Prime Ministers Aznar and Berlusconi were insulted in a demonstration on 12 June led by the President and First Vice-President of Cuba and directed at the embassies of those countries.
Please do not tell us that this has something to do with respect for human rights because we know that, if there is anyone who cannot talk about respect for human rights, it is the Americans themselves who, apart from what they are doing throughout the entire world, Iraq being a typical example, are also trampling over human rights in their own country with daily executions and keeping the five patriots whose only crime was to uncover terrorist action against Cuba and its leaders organised by the USA in unacceptable conditions.
It is an analysis of another issue relating to Cuba.
I find this supplementary question totally unnecessary.
The European decision against that embargo has been clear for many years.
We have had this line all along and the disagreement between Europe and the US stands, as has always been the case. &#160;&#160; – Mr Nielson, a public debate was held in Greece a very short time ago about possibly inviting Fidel Castro to Greece within the framework of the Olympic Games.
I ask you, Commissioner, to tell me if, first, the European Commission would encourage the Greek Government to invite the President of Cuba to Athens during the Olympic Games and, secondly, if the European Commission sees such an invitation as a positive action. &#160;&#160; .
In practice, this requirement is usually linked to the existence of a national reform programme which is subject to support through the International Monetary Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.
The PRGF is designed to contribute to the reduction of poverty and the creation of economic growth.
In case of diverging opinions on particular issues related to this review, Commission services and IMF staff must enter into a technical dialogue to try to reach a common position – I say a technical dialogue, but politics is also involved, of course.
Should the Commission maintain a position different from the IMF's, it may decide to disburse its budget support, despite the fact that the PRGF review may not be conclusive or that the country in other words goes 'off-track'.
In other words, despite linking part of its budget support disbursement directly to these PRGF reviews conducted by the IMF, the Commission takes its own case-by-case decision on whether to carry out a disbursement.
A similar approach is followed in relation to Community assistance to countries in other regions where general budget support for poverty reduction is linked to the same type of PRGFs.
In general, we are satisfied that this cooperation also includes the World Bank.
History has also proved that for the many formerly very badly managed economies in the Third World, a lot of progress has been achieved, despite the costs involved. &#160;&#160; I would have liked the Commissioner to be much more willing to disburse budgetary support to a country despite it not being on track as regards certain non-core elements of the IMF/PRGF and where IMF programmes are judged to be too restrictive.
The Commission has expressed concern over recent years about the IMF's macro-economic framework for low income countries.
There are cases in post-conflict situations where budget support is simply necessary – even if a country is not even discussing being on-track or off-track – simply because if we and other donors did not step in, everything would simply break down.
It is also a factor that the IMF and the World Bank have changed in recent years; not that we always agree on everything with them, but we are not discussing this in the context of the 1980s or early 1990s.
The partnership we now have reflects a more poverty-oriented, more socially-responsible view compared to that held during those times. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank the honourable Member and the Commissioner, together with whom we make up this institutional dialogue during the final Question Time of this legislature.
Finally, we think that the internal audit service of the Commission must pay more attention to what is going on in the agencies.
Agencies can have their own incomes, but under the rules of the Financial Regulation, they may not use this income in the next budget year.
We think this solution should also apply to the other agencies.
I can more or less reiterate the comments of last year and of the years before that.
We can only conclude that if we were to refuse to grant a discharge at this point in time, this would not serve any useful purpose at all, as the political consequences at the moment would not be in the interests of Europe.
We think it is a pity that three months ago, in response to the Kasaka follow-up report on the discharges for 2001, an amendment put forward by the Liberals was adopted with a majority of only one vote.
The cooperation between France and Germany started with cooperation in the field of the two large industrial sectors of the time, coal and steel, and was later expanded to economic cooperation and a European agricultural policy.
All in all, this cooperation has ensured that we here in the European Union have lived in peace for sixty years.
I think that this point should be made once again most emphatically, especially in the run up to the campaign for the European elections of 10 and 13 June.
The report rightly expresses respect for the virtues of all those who instituted and shaped the ECSC and, therefore, made a very concrete contribution to the unification of Europe.
All the reports recommend that discharge be granted.
Let us take stock and remind ourselves, once again, what the situation was like five years ago.
There was, after all, a general consensus among the Committee of Independent Experts, voiced in their report, as well as among the European Court of Auditors and the overwhelming majority of Members of this House that it was not enough to make individual adjustments to the management of the European Commission: fundamental reform and modernisation were required.
Secondly, the entire system of budget management – from the establishment of the budget to budget structure, budget implementation, budgetary control and financial reporting – has been radically reformed.
The old Financial Regulation was 25 years old.
I am pleased that we – the Commission, Parliament, all the Member States, and the European Court of Auditors – have achieved this together.
It is an outstanding piece of work by this House’s Committee on Budgets and the Council’s Economic and Financial Affairs Committee.
All this makes the Financial Regulation a great success.
In the field of financial management, we had central control of commitments and payments.
This was a relic of a time when the budget was still small and its role was negligible.
The main weakness of this system was that responsibility was transferred from the Directorate-General that managed the allocations to a centralised system of financial control.
We have now introduced, at last, a division of responsibilities which ensures proper and efficient financial management at European level too, in line with the mechanisms which are generally taken for granted at government level in the Member States.
Under the new system, the responsibility for sound and efficient financial management lies with those who manage the funds.
As a corollary, this decentralisation process naturally also requires the adoption of uniform standards of financial management, and this is what we have done.
He must also provide a Declaration highlighting any weaknesses of which he is aware in his particular field of responsibility and outlining the related remedial measures taken or planned.
These reports are submitted to Parliament and can also be accessed by the general public via the Internet.
The Prodi Commission has faced up to this responsibility.
The first is the office of the Internal Auditor, which was established in 2000 and, from the outset, was accountable to the Vice-President of the Commission, which underlines the great importance attached to the role.
We are on track to fulfil the stringent requirements set out in the Financial Regulation by 2005 – and indeed, before the start of 2005.
Let me make this point very clearly too: this modernisation strategy maps the Commission's progress towards fulfilment of the most up-to-date public sector accounting standards.
I would like to express my warm thanks, on behalf of the Commission but also on my personal behalf, for your critical but very positive cooperation.
The Prodi Commission was the first European Commission to accept that its management and administrative tasks are of equal value to its conceptual and negotiating agenda.
Through its pro-active approach and spurred on by Parliament, the Court of Auditors and the Council, it has created a management system which equips the Commission for the challenges of the twenty-first century.
This management system will have to prove its worth in a Union with 25, 27 or more Member States, with 20 or more official languages, and with a constantly new set of tasks and expenditure assigned to the Union.
That, of course, is no fault of the agency in Bilbao, but nevertheless the Court of Auditors made a very negative comment about this.
We would like to see an evaluation of what has been done in connection with this programme in the accession countries, and that gender budgeting be also applied in all community programmes intended for the accession countries. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the fact that the security situation in Kosovo continues to be precarious prompted the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy to give particular attention to the deficiencies in the conduct of the European Agency for Reconstruction in Kosovo, which the Court of Auditors has highlighted.
These include the amount of cash held in reserve, the need to avoid making payments to unauthorised persons, and the need for better coordination between the Agency’s accounting officer and the competent directorate of the Commission.
Statements by the Agency in response to these points have made it possible for these concerns to be laid to rest.
The discharge report offers an opportunity to make that point.
I am therefore happy to be able to make this announcement on behalf of my committee. &#160;&#160; .
However, I would like to make a more general point, particularly with relation to the censure motion that will be debated tomorrow evening and the general discharge point, criticising the Commission on the disgraceful way that European funds are being managed under its control.
It is also the last discharge for the – current – Commission, and this is also the last time I will be taking part in a discharge procedure.
Things have always been amicable, and I think that the great deal of work we have put in has also yielded a great deal of success.
I also want to thank the Court of Auditors for its reports, on which our work has been founded, as well as the Commission and you, Commissioner.
I think it can be said that the Commission and Parliament are more willing to engage in dialogue and are also more frank with each other, and for that I am grateful, although I found the earlier statement on Eurostat a great disappointment.
The reforms for which we have striven have now been set in motion; they must not be put off to another day.
Let me now turn to the committee, and to a few other behavioural traits to be found in it, which I find annoying, to put it mildly.
There is a perilous competition here between some Members of the same nationality but belonging to different political groups.
I hope that, here in Parliament today, Commissioner Schreyer will promise to go on giving impetus to the reform process, even if it takes place in the middle of the changeover to a new Commission.
It now gives us the opportunity to obtain some clearer rules governing Parliament’s activity, administration and Members.
Finally, I should like to conclude with a couple of words about political accountability.
I think it is at the consultations that are to take place when the new Parliament assembles that we should put our energies into getting some principles governing Commissioners’ political accountability adopted.
My report also focused a lot of attention on the seat of Parliament, our travelling popular theatre, and the fact that we have to work at three different locations.
The PPE-DE has submitted a number of amendments to scrap those paragraphs.
It is difficult, not to say impossible, to comment on the approval procedure for the 2002 accounts in the space of one minute.
This House bears a heavy responsibility by closing its eyes and voting in favour of approving accounts that should not be approved.
The European Court of Auditors rejects the EU's accounts on an annual basis and has done so for the last nine years.
However, Hans-Martin Tillack – innocent until proven guilty – has still not been heard by OLAF.
I congratulate him and I genuinely hope that, in particular, the paragraphs on our Parliament’s prerogatives on choosing our place of work are adopted and will, so to speak, form this outgoing Parliament’s political testament for the next Parliament in order that this issue of location can finally be dealt with in a sensible manner.
As far as the Commission discharge is concerned, we Radical Members will vote in favour of it, but we will also give much thought to the vote that there will be on the issue.
As a parliamentary committee, we have a particular interest in auditing management and, fundamentally, in combating fraud.
If our Chairman – who is now leaving us – achieved anything of merit, it was to take our little Committee on Budgetary Control and make people take it seriously.
This House may be at the end of its term, but we can still tell you that what we expect of any future Commission is another way of going about things.
I hope that we will, in future, see that in another shape.
I am asking the Commission to promise that, before 1 May, in other words within 14 days, they will present Parliament with an assessment of the support for problem areas, regardless of whether all the Member States have fulfilled their duty to provide information.
The validity of the distribution is open to dispute and the list of indicators in fact give the Member States .
Finally, I am asking for a clear response from the Commissioner to the suggestion to create a separate Directorate-General for accounting and combating fraud with effect from 2005, to bring to an end once and for all the merging of responsibilities in the present Directorate-General for the Budget. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start by saying how much I like the rapporteur for the 2002 discharge.
The Committee on Budgetary Control's report on the discharge of the 2002 Commission's accounts is probably the greatest work of fiction I have seen since I came to this Parliament.
One wonders whether one is looking into the future and talking about what is happening or going to happen in 2005, or whether we are dealing with 2002, which is the year in question.
It was in early January 2002 that Marta Andreasen started work for the Commission, and five months into 2002 that she was suspended from her role as an accounting officer for the Commission.
The Commission must have thought that Christmas had come early when the rapporteur presented his report.
It is perfectly possible to have responsibility without being to blame.
I should like to see who dares vote in favour of that logic.
My group does not recognise the EU’s accounts for the year in which chief accounting officer Marta Andreasen was suspended.
In 1997, the recognised accountancy firm, Lloyd, estimated annual fraud at eight billion euros.
The Court of Auditors cannot obtain all the documents, the Ombudsman is not entitled to see everything and the Committee on Budgetary Control only receives superficial information.
As a Member of this Parliament for 25 years, I have requested basic information concerning the use of EU funds and never obtained serious answers, for example about the distribution of agricultural aid or the number of working parties and their participants.
The Eurostat case showed just how important are the measures taken by the Commission as part of its reforms, such as the rotation of directors-general.
There are numerous provisions in the Financial Regulation to ensure that nothing of the kind can happen again.
The proposal for an amendment to the OLAF Regulation serves to make it clear that the competent Commissioners must be provided with information as and when OLAF is engaged in an investigation or when a case is open.
I will take this opportunity to thank you again for this debate, for the excellent report, and, overall, for the in-depth cooperation with the Committee on Budgetary Control over recent years, which, though critical, has been constructive.
If someone has three minutes, that simply adds up to a bit more than is the case with the speaking time allotted to you.
Voting on the motions relating to the statement on Eurostat will take place on Thursday.
I want to underline once again the fact that the Commission will carefully consider the points of view expressed by Members in the debate in March, when my colleague also spoke, before making its final decision.
It is my task this evening to present the case for the other part of the package, namely the international agreement we have negotiated with the United States.
It would provide a sound legal basis for allowing airlines to transfer passenger data to the United States.
In fact we were all shocked by those attacks.
We stand, I hope, shoulder to shoulder with America in the fight against terrorism and I repeat that in my judgment if we had suffered anything like the attacks on the Twin Towers, we perhaps might have an even greater appreciation of how great US concern is over air transport.
Since those attacks the US authorities have taken a whole range of measures to provide their citizens with greater security.
The requirement for the transfer of PNR data is one of these.
We immediately saw a conflict between the requirements of the US legislation and our own data protection legislation.
As outlined in the Commission communication of December 2003, the bilateral international agreement with the US that we are debating today is a necessary element in the framework that the Commission is seeking to put in place both for legal and for political reasons.
Firstly, there is a legal reason related to the data protection directive.
This international agreement, which will become part of the Community legal framework, creates such a requirement, but subject to one very important condition: the existence of adequate data protection in the recipient country, namely the United States.
It is important to underline here that this agreement does not take for granted the existence of such adequate protection in the United States.
However, whatever the Commission decides, this part of the agreement will only be applicable if there is an adequacy finding.
Secondly, there is a legal reason for this international agreement, linked to international law.
The European Commission took the position of principle that US law enforcement authorities could only get access to databases situated in the Community if they had been explicitly allowed to do so.
First, that there is adequate data protection in the US.
We are doing our best to put in place the conditions that will make 'push' possible very soon.
From a more political point of view, this agreement fulfils four additional important objectives.
First, it ensures the future assistance of the US Government on the basis of reciprocity in ensuring that airlines transfer PNR data to Community authorities if the Community or any of its Member States were to introduce such a system.
Before concluding, allow me to refer briefly to the report that has been submitted, which highlights two legal problems.
The first is procedural.
The rapporteur considers that Parliament should have been asked to give its full assent rather than just being consulted.
There is a second concern highlighted in the report, which stipulates that: 'The real scope of the international agreement will evolve at the discretion of the US administration without any legally binding participation from the European Union side'.
So any unilateral change to the US undertakings that would lead to non-compliance with the principles of adequacy would also lead to a suspension of the adequacy finding.
Simultaneously, it would also lead to the non-application of the two key clauses of the international agreement, the obligation on airlines to provide the data and the authorisation to the US to pull without any need to modify or revoke the international agreement.
The resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 31 March calls for a wider international agreement incorporating a series of data protection principles.
That is why I would ask Parliament to back this agreement, not because it is perfect but because it is a great deal better for our airlines to operate under legal certainty and it is a great deal better for passengers to have much improved safeguards than the legal void that would result from a collapse of a package which we have worked so long and hard to negotiate.
Indeed, our Rules of Procedure clearly state that you can speak for as long as you want.
A few months ago you asked Parliament for an adequacy finding.Meanwhile, both Mr Bolkestein and yourself have informed us that there is no adequacy finding as yet in fact.
Parliament has asked for a real international agreement.
Parliament has asked for equivalence in the United States and efficient, independent opportunities to correct incorrect data and a clear judicial process for EU citizens who get into difficulties.
Well, Commissioner, Article 6 of the agreement states that where feasible and on the basis of strict reciprocity, the cooperation of airlines falling under its jurisdiction will be actively promoted.
Article 1 states what we have to do.
You say this is not necessary, because the legal basis that the Council has chosen is Directive 95/46/EC and this agreement would not change the content of the Directive.
I have not mentioned the connection between this agreement and CAPS II, but the undertakings to that also state that this agreement will shortly also be linked to the new, advanced CAPS II system in the United States.
That is the only way left to us to do something about this agreement and to adequately protect our citizens.
I beg you therefore once again to withdraw this agreement and to come to Parliament with a real agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are dealing with the forwarding of PNR (Passenger Name Record) data to the United States, but this time in the final phase, since we now have the draft international agreement on the table, which we in this House have called for so many times.
I do not believe we can contribute anything new to the fundamental issue, because our positions throughout all these debates have been made sufficiently clear.
In the committee I chair, we have had the opportunity to hear the experts.
This is the legal framework we are debating today, with all its defects and the criticisms we have made.
On the other hand, nobody can deny that combating terrorism is an absolute priority today and that at the moment, when European society, living in fear of those people who threaten their security and stability, would not understand the absence of cooperation between those countries which are facing up to terrorism.
The European Union and the United States share this common objective and it is fundamental, and absolutely urgent and necessary, that we cooperate.
It is the solution to a real problem which has affected us since transmissions began more than a year ago.
In fact, whilst Article&#160;7 of the Directive gives Member States the power to control the processing of personal data for security reasons, the Community takes this competence away from Member States in the draft agreement to give it to a foreign authority.
The draft provides for European airlines to be obliged to process European passenger data as requested by the United States Department of Homeland Security, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection in line with United States legislation.
Pursuant to Article&#160;300 of the Treaty, this change to the directive, which the Commission continues to deny, would have entailed Parliament – the colegislator of the directive – giving its assent, as Commissioner Bolkestein had already announced to the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on 9&#160;September 2003, which did not happen.
Furthermore, the draft violates one of the fundamental rights of European citizens, that of confidentiality of personal data, laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Not least, this law provides for access to information that has been collected and for it to be corrected, which is not guaranteed in the draft agreement.
From a practical point of view, this aspect is important since data that are collected for commercial purposes, and neither checked nor filtered by a responsible authority, may be inaccurate or even deliberately incorrect.
Commissioner Patten has told us tonight that data transfers remain a matter of concern for the Commission.
The fact is that there is no real agreement between the European Union and the United States on the scope of data required, on purpose limitation, on data storage periods or on the transfer of data to third countries.
In proposing this amendment, the College of Commissioners should be ashamed of itself.
Despite Commissioner Bolkestein's assurance on 9&#160;September that the procedure would involve the European Parliament's assent, as required by Article 300 of the Treaty, neither this Parliament nor national parliaments are being given the chance to comment on this.
We therefore call on the Commission to withdraw this agreement and to replace it with a proper international agreement.
My group want a legal opinion on this.
The Commission really cannot be against that, even if they are convinced that everything is OK.
Commissioner Patten just said that the agreement is better than nothing.
The Commission has got a number of restrictions through, but the agreement still covers too many data and they are kept for a ridiculously long time.
If the United States does not want to do that, then we simply do not give them those data.
Of course that will mean that the US will ask the passengers for that information at the airports, but then citizens will see immediately how much information we are talking about and I think that in this way you will organise resistance on another front.
It is a matter of having the political will to ensure that our own European laws are complied with.
I think it is the duty of the Commission to make sure that these are monitored. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Patten, I believe that the real reason why the European Union finds itself in a weak position is because we have waived our own rules.
The draft agreement is not only contrary to the directive but also to the fundamental principles of the European Union.
Clearly, we need to combat terrorism and clearly we need to do so with rules that respect the fundamental principles of our European Union.
This is not the case, since this measure applies to all airlines, including US airlines when the reservation is made in Europe.
It is for this reason that we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are in favour of concluding the agreement with the USA on the basis of the points negotiated with the Commission, for we will thereby finally be putting an end to the lack of regulation, opening the way not only to the exchange of data, but also and above all to further improvements and further negotiations.
The citizens, whom we represent and by whom we are elected, do not expect us to spend our time here in endless debate; what they expect of us is that we take action jointly with those who have kept their heads.
The war on terrorism must be our first priority. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we know that terrorism is a field which requires international cooperation and, since I come from a country that has suffered greatly from terrorism, I also know that cooperation in combating terrorism and any action which is taken must show full respect for the system of society which the terrorists want to eliminate.
The problem, Mr President, is that Parliament has been facing an intolerable situation with regard to the decisions the Commission has been taking in this field.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
I apologise for speaking for so long at the beginning of this debate, but I would just like to respond to one point.
Taking into account the reservations that I expressed earlier about onward transfer, if the proposed package of an adequacy finding and an international agreement is suspended, it is undoubtedly the case that some data protection authorities will have very little choice but to start ordering airlines to suspend data transfers with all the consequences for airlines and passengers that this would provoke.
Nobody should think we have blazed into this with no regard for civil liberties.
I happen to think that what we are proposing is much better than what we would have if we did not put these arrangements in place, and that we would have greater protection for civil liberties than would otherwise be the case.
However, I accept that my remark might have appeared insulting and I would therefore like to withdraw it. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Watson, for clarifying that; it helps the atmosphere in this House.
The Commissioner has every right to demand that such things be sorted out.
The debate is closed.
I also asked in committee, on the date of the debate, for a legal opinion to be issued by its secretariat, by Parliament’s legal services or by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal market, on serious issues concerning the legality or otherwise of this report; issues that I raised and tabled at the time.
I was under the impression that my request had been accepted but to date I have still not heard this opinion.
In fact, the report makes some legal and factual observations that are inadmissible in Parliament.
Even more seriously, the report raises points of law that are completely inadmissible in Parliament because they would force us to discuss the laws of Member States and furthermore, the legislative powers of Member States and even the rulings of Member State courts.
An example of this is the reference in paragraph 49 to a ruling of Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court on a legislative proposal introduced by the .
I am shocked: how can we possibly question the legislative process pursued in Germany’s , or determine the legality or otherwise of certain facts in light of Italian national law, or of Law&#160;249/97, of the deliberations of the Italian national authorities or of the rulings of the Italian Constitutional Court?
These are all matters which I am not in a position to discuss for one simple reason: they do not fall within the sphere of Parliament’s competence and I would therefore ask that this report be deemed inadmissible or referred back to the Commission until a legal study in the true sense of the word is submitted on these issues, which are serious ones. &#160;&#160; Under the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ribeiro e Castro, you ought only to have had one minute, but the two you were allotted you owe to my generosity.
Turning to the matter in hand, there is in the Rules of Procedure a provision according to which motions of this kind on non-admissibility have to be received 24 hours in advance.
That is why I have applied a large number of tests that, in my opinion, should be applied in such a difficult situation.
In addition, the European Institute for the Media in Düsseldorf, a highly renowned institute, has been asked to carry out an investigation in all the countries in Europe.
I have spoken to a very great number of experts and all of them, whether they represented journalists, public media or commercial media, expressed their appreciation for my recommendations.
I have also drawn up a series of recommendations to promote pluralism in Europe.
One of these recommendations concerns the defining of minimum conditions throughout the European Union to make sure that public broadcasters are independent and free from interference by government, as recommended by the Council of Europe.
I am not going to sum up all my recommendations here.
I think that the Commission does have this duty.
The question it comes down to is whether pluralism is under threat from concentrations or any other threat, because certain media are over-concentrated in one hand.
I think it is a great pity that some members, who have not been involved in the debate from the outset, have now suddenly submitted large numbers of amendments to bring this report down.
I do not think this report deserves that, I did not expect it and I also think it is undemocratic. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I take the floor to talk about Articles 3, 28, 64, 118, 151, 171 and 172, on access to documents.
A document published by Parliament’s Press Service declared that freedom of information in Italy is the most important issue in this sitting and once again declared that freedom of information is endangered in Italy.
There is no report or document with this title in the vote.
It seems to me that officials have manipulated the situation, and I therefore call on the President of Parliamentto ensure that Parliament and committee officials do not take political sides but respect Parliament’s fundamental rules and official acts.
Yesterday I wrote a formal protest to the chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, who sent an official letter of protest to the President of Parliament &#160;&#160; Mr Tajani, you will be in the Minutes in any case by virtue of having spoken.
I have spoken quite often at this time of night; I have spoken about human rights in Africa and all sorts of issues of life and death, but I have never found as many people here at this hour as I do tonight.
The freedom of expression and information, which includes the freedom and pluralism of the media, is one of the principles common to all Member States and on which the Union is founded, as Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union states.
This right is also provided for in Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
The question of subsidiarity is crucial in this context.
National measures to promote medial pluralism could, for example, include provisions determining share ownership in media companies or measures promoting culturally and linguistically diversified content.
The aim of all measures aiding media pluralism is to protect freedom of expression and to ensure that the media reflect a spectrum of views and opinions characteristic of a democratic society.
However, Community law allows the application of national safeguards with regard to media pluralism.
For example, the Television without Frontiers Directive contributes to the safeguarding of media pluralism through a number of content-related provisions, in particular through its provisions on the promotion of European productions and of the work of independent producers.
The Media Programme also plays an important role, whilst the application of competition rules impacts positively on media pluralism.
Whilst the primary objective of Community competition law is economic – that is, to ensure workable competition between market operators – it also helps to prevent an excessive degree of control or cumulative holdings in media companies which might endanger the existence of a wide spectrum of views and opinions in the media market.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate what was said by my colleague Commissioner Vitorino during the debate on fundamental rights last month.
The Commission is committed to ensuring that respect for all fundamental rights across the Union is properly monitored.
I am only sorry that this debate has not given me the opportunity to comment – as they used to say in Rome – on the ownership of the media in the country which I know best.
One only has to read the British press today and speculations on why Tony Blair has made his U-turn on an EU referendum to see that is the case.
In our report on the television without frontiers directive, we asked for a Green Paper from the Commission and a special study on this subject.
However, in today's rapidly shrinking world, the European Union cannot ignore its responsibilities and its special position free from the power of one or two powerful press magnates.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously adopted its opinion, which can be broken down into three basic points.
The first point is the conflict of interests, for which we all hope – and I stress the word hope – that there will be legislation intended to prohibit political figures or candidates from having major economic interests in the media.
The second point states that it is necessary to draw up a procedure whereby Parliament can independently – I repeat, independently – initiate proceedings to make it possible to carry out investigations into the human rights situation in a Member State pursuant to Article&#160;7(1) of our Treaty.
Finally, the third point is the one in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that any action by a Member State that results in limiting the freedom of expression and the freedom of information within the country will represent a breach of this article.
I would like to stress that there is no hostile intention but simply a unanimous desire, at least in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to draw up a procedure to know how the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission must act in such sensitive cases. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if you will allow me a touch of irony – which may at this moment be a ruse to escape from such a sensitive debate – I should like to say that the election campaign by the Italian Left for the European elections is officially opening this evening here in the European Parliament.
The document that we are discussing has, in fact, been hijacked by a hidden agenda – depriving the cultural, scientific and technical research that the title announces of any value – even though the fact that the title itself picks out Italy as a country in which freedom of information is allegedly under greater threat than elsewhere, gives an early indication of biased conclusions that are simply meant to hurt the Italian Government and particularly its Prime Minister.
In support of this report, the rapporteur presents the conclusions of a study carried out by a Düsseldorf institute – which was never authorised by this Parliament – with findings that are anything but clear and definitive.
I could give an answer, but perhaps I am too cynical.
The original text has been padded out with a raft of amendments that present the situation in Italy in a paradoxical light, to say the least, with personal references and criticisms of the Italian Prime Minister that are not in keeping with the style and language of the European Parliament.
It is a shame, because one just cannot see where the truth lies.
This report could have helped to uphold it.
Unfortunately, the report betrays it and mortifies it. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for the valuable work she has done with both competence and impartiality.
I particularly thank her for the great patience she has shown in the face of the unjustified criticism and obstructionism of the last few days, which were certainly not inspired by an interest in protecting a fundamental right of European citizens.
The report, which was drawn up with the authorisation and according to the instructions of the Conference of Presidents, addresses the subject of the freedom and the political and cultural pluralism of the media, which are essential elements in a full democracy.
This, in turn, is a founding value of the European Union, as enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaty.
The report, which is entirely acceptable, analyses the criteria to be observed and the instruments that can be adopted to ensure that freedom and pluralism of information are guaranteed, and suggests possibilities for intervention by the Community and the Member States in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
With its analyses and proposals, this work will be of great significance for the future of the enlarged Community of 25 Member States.
The report also examines the risks of violation of freedom of expression and information, particularly in Italy, as specified in the mandate given to the committee.
There are risks everywhere and all the time, but it is difficult to deny the anomaly in Italy due to objective and incontestable factors: it has the highest level of concentration of the audiovisual market in Europe, characterised by the duopoly of a public organisation, RAI, and a private group, Mediaset, which collect 96.8% of advertising resources; by the fact that the Mediaset group is controlled by the current Prime Minister; by the fact that in Italy the structure and programming of the public television service are influenced by the government and its ruling majority; and by the fact that the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister has still not been resolved.
Then again, the facts that have been presented to us regarding the risks to freedom of information in Italy are so obvious and serious that it would be pointless to repeat them.
Even the case of a Member of the European Parliament who is facing criminal charges for colluding with the Mafia has been met with silence in the media.
We have all seen the obstructionism that has been deployed against the Boogerd-Quaak report in the last few days.
It is an excellent report, which stems from her concern – shared by the overwhelming majority in Parliament – for the freedom of information and expression in the European Union.
We would, of course, have preferred it if the Commission had put forward a specific proposal for a directive during these five years.
The situation is indeed causing ever greater concern in all the countries in the Union as a result of massive concentrations of the media and increasingly blatant attempts by governments to steer, control and use the media in order to maintain and increase their own power.
Europe cannot continue to remain silent about the scandal of a Prime Minister who owns the three private television networks, owns the largest company collecting television advertising revenue and controls the three public networks, at the head of which he places all his political sympathisers, and he even publicly announces the dismissal of journalists like Enzo Biagi and Michele Santoro, whom he considers undesirable.
In a Europe that is becoming more and more neoliberalistic and antidemocratic, where the power of the media actively contributes to a single way of thinking, to wars and to the dismantling of the welfare state, we have to give a sign that we are changing direction or, at least, rethinking things.
No action was ever taken, and I should like to hear the reasons for that, if you know what they are, Commissioner Patten.
The second objective is to give a number of concrete examples of these dangers, which certainly exist in several countries but are demonstrated in Italy in an absolutely flagrant way: purely and simply the concentration of political, media and economic power in the hands of a single person.
From a political, cultural and legislative point of view, this would be practically impossible in any other western democracy.
The third point I want to underline in this report is the recommendations it makes.
They are the resolution of the conflict of interests and also the resolution of the concentration of media power in Italy in the hands of two individuals, as well as – and I am repeating it again because I think it is particularly important – the request for the Commission to take action and legislate on this matter.
I find it depressing that a certain part of the Italian Left, blinded by their need to indict the Italian Prime Minister and thus the whole government – which, I am pleased to recall, was democratically elected by a majority – should concoct and consent to an inquisitorial report like this, devoted to the situation ‘especially in Italy’, as it says in the title, with the sole purpose of discrediting Italy itself.
I owe it to the Members here present to say that. &#160;&#160; – I am taking the floor for a personal reason, Mr&#160;President.
Mr&#160;Cox has already had occasion to state quite clearly what the position is and what the rights are of the Members who work in this Chamber.
What this House has observed is an undeniably increasing unease amongst large sectors of information professionals and large sectors of the public with regard to the information they receive through the media.
The concentration of private media organisations in a few hands and the misuse of the public media by public authorities, by governments, are the two central concerns in this field.
Community legislation, Mr President, should take account of this need for plurality and should have instruments for actively defending it.
Mr President, I believe that the Commission and the Member States should study these proposals and accept them or, at least, tell us what they think of them.
I am therefore optimistic in this area.
I hope that the institutions can act in the way the citizens expect us to act. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let me speak in English to spare the interpreters.
Let me say that I disapprove of this behaviour – not because I belong to a nostalgic Communist group or am a Bolshevik, as I have been called, but because I still respect this House, its traditions, its standards and its rules. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe the debate we are holding is not exclusively an Italian one.
In this regard, we admire models of public television such as the BBC and we would like, as Valencians, both and , our Valencian television, to be neutral, and, in the future, to have a neutral television company which gives space to all parties.
A party such as mine, which is the third biggest municipal political force in our country, has no presence on our television and I believe this issue is fundamental to European integration. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I am taking the floor on my own behalf and I shall speak in Italian, because I do not have the command of English that Mr Manisco has.
That very fact, however, Commissioner, shows that it is the European Commission that has not fulfilled its duties in this debate.
In the last two years, Parliament has twice called on the Commission to draw up a proposal for a directive, and this has not been done.
The topic was brought before this Parliament by means of a resolution signed by myself and 31 other Members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats or other groups on the Right, because it goes much deeper than Italy and concerns a value which belongs to the whole of Europe and every civilisation.
In addition to a public television service that has never escaped from party control, private television too is wholly in the political hands of the government.
What is written in this disgraceful report is not true, and the rapporteur could have based it, for instance, on data from an independent institute such as the Osservatorio di Pavia.
But the rapporteur preferred to ignore many things: she even ignored what happened to the journalist Hans-Martin Tillach a few steps away from the European Parliament.
In short, this is a miserable report that is a disgrace to this Parliament! &#160;&#160; – My dear Mrs&#160;Boogerd-Quaak, the good thing about democracy is that people can hold completely different ideas on the same subject.
In February 2003, in response to the conclusions of the December 2002 Justice and Home Affairs Council, the Commission presented a package of practical measures which seek to alleviate legal inconsistencies and practical difficulties in relation to the stamping of third country nationals' travel documents at the external borders of the Member States.
In November 2003 the Commission presented a proposal for a regulation which seeks first to impose an obligation on the Member States to stamp such travel documents systematically; secondly, to lay down the conditions in which the absence of an entry stamp may constitute evidence that the individual has overstayed in the Member State's territory; and thirdly to ensure that the checks on individuals at external borders are only relaxed in exceptional and unforeseen circumstances.
The obligation on the Member States' authorities to stamp the travel documents of third country nationals systematically will make it possible to use the lack of an entry stamp as evidence of an illegal stay.
I hope that those honourable Members who have delayed bedtime to listen to these remarks will find them helpful and I look forward to listening to the debate. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like first of all to thank my fellow Members for their amendments, which have enriched this proposal for a Council regulation laying down the requirement for the competent authorities of the Member States to stamp systematically the travel documents of third-country nationals when they cross the external borders of the Member States.
This provision amends the convention implementing the Schengen agreement and the so-called common manual to this end.
In view of the complete abolition of controls at the internal borders between Member States, the objective is to transfer these controls to their external borders, while increasing judicial, customs and police cooperation with what might be termed compensatory measures to safeguard the security of European Union territory.
It is important to make an effort to rationalise and harmonise border control systems: indeed, the gradual creation of the Schengen area has resulted in various procedures in each Member State for controlling its own borders.
This has adversely affected efforts to check that third-country citizens in the territory of the Member States comply with the conditions for staying, especially for short stays.
For this reason the Commission has produced this proposal for a Council regulation with the aim of making it obligatory to systematically stamp the travel documents of such citizens during immigration controls at the external borders, and establishing common rules for this.
Finally, I should like to point out that this regulation is certainly just a first step towards a more comprehensive reform of the system, which will also include systematically stamping documents – a proper form of control, then – for those leaving the Schengen area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would naturally like to begin by congratulating the Commission on its proposal and the rapporteur for the work she has done, both from a technical point of view and in terms of cooperation with other Members, since it has allowed us to incorporate some of our proposals into her report.
One of the objectives of Community policy is the control of immigration in order to promote, on the one hand, the integration of immigrants and also, on the other, the safe return to countries of origin in the case of illegal immigration.
In this regard, the control of the external borders of the States party to the Schengen Agreement is essential to achieving these objectives.
If we want to improve security and make the European Union a more secure region, we must also improve the functioning of our external borders and, in particular, the Schengen borders.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The aim of the proposal was to reform the basic regulation on the Centre in order to take into account the evolution in the patterns of drug use, the way in which the Centre currently operates, the effects of enlargement and the horizontal measures that the Commission would like to see applied to agencies in general.
The main changes from the previous regulation are as follows.
Secondly, in order to take account of enlargement, we have introduced a number of measures enabling the Centre to operate effectively in an enlarged Europe – for example the creation of a post of vice-chairman and a steering committee, and a review of the composition of the Centre's Scientific Committee.
Thirdly, there is the question of the participation of the European Parliament in the management board.
I want to point out that out of the 15 Community agencies only three – the Environment Agency, the Medicines Agency and the Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia – have European Parliament representatives on their management boards.
The other new element in the Commission proposal is of a more technical nature, concerning either corrections related to the consolidation exercise or the updating of procedures in the new agencies.
The Commission was against the idea, and justified its opposition.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs did not agree.
This leads me to assume that we can accept this Monitoring Centre in the same way as the other three agencies, and, if the House believes that its Members play an important part in the work of this body, then I work on the assumption that the Commission, too, will eventually accept that as this House's democratic decision.
I believe that the work we are doing serves this purpose, and so I take it as read that we will, tomorrow, come to a sound decision, significantly strengthening the Monitoring Centre and enabling it to continue with its work. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the amendment to the operating regulations of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is considered indispensable.
According to the Commission proposal, the main tasks of the Centre are the collection, analysis and dissemination of transnational data on drug-related problems.
Only this would give the Member States knowledge of the best and most efficient practices in this difficult sector.
The selection procedure should be transparent and should attract the interest of all potential candidates.
I proposed amendments on all the foregoing which were accepted.
We do not want to be inhibited in our supervisory role because we are sitting on the board of management ourselves.
Finally, I would also like to commend Commissioner Vitorino, who has responsibility for this matter, for the efforts on his part that I have experienced over the past few years. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
