Democratic process in Turkey (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on democratic process in Turkey.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am afraid we may have the same passion in this discussion on democracy in Turkey as we had on the wine reform during the second half of Arsenal v Manchester United, which is a snapshot of Europe in 2009.
Between 14 and 18 April more than 200 officials and members of the Democratic Society Party have been arrested in a police operation throughout Turkey, and in particular in its south-eastern region.
The Commission cannot interfere in ongoing legal cases.
The Democratic Society Party has been contributing to pluralism in Turkey, and its political legitimacy was confirmed by the results of the recent local elections in March.
The Commission also continues to follow closely the closure case against the DTP currently pending in the Constitutional Court.
There is a clear need for a political solution, and the DTP must also be accepted as a full partner in discussions.
More than 400 leading DTP personnel have been arrested for requesting a solution to the Kurdish question.
It has 21 members of parliament and 98 mayors, and still the Kurds continue to be sidelined.
In the opinion of many observers, these problems have increased.
Whilst I am very pleased about the party-wide anxiety about Turkey's democratisation, I have no sympathy at all with MEPs who are critical of Turkey but who are not prepared to allow it to become a full member if these problems are solved.
Even after my term of office has come to an end, I shall continue to argue for the reforms that are needed for Turkey to become a full member of the European Union.
Another 14 year old, who was fleeing a police gas attack, drowned after falling into a river.
On 4 April two people died at a demonstration near Urfa as a consequence of a police operation.
At present in Diyarbakir there are more than 185 minors in prison.
This repression began shortly after 29 March, when the DTP enjoyed major successes in local government elections in the south-east of the country and the number of their mayoral appointments almost doubled, while by contrast the ruling AKP experienced bitter losses in its much sought after Kurdish region.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, the European Union has made two cardinal errors in its relations with Turkey.
In 1999, it press-ganged Turkey into becoming a candidate country, and continued on this wrong track by opening accession negotiations with Ankara in 2005.
I will remind you of some facts: Turkey has 90 million inhabitants, strong demographic growth and above all we must not forget the fact that the Turkish speaking countries of Central Asia are demanding Turkish citizenship and the Turkish State seems intent on giving it to them.
This means that the entrance of Turkey would not mean simply Turkey joining Europe but also other peoples, other states in Europe.
The parliament has hardly any say in this and, what is more, there are special funds over which the parliament has no control whatsoever.
I could recite even more points, but I will leave it there and call upon the Commission to pay strict attention to progress in these areas. (BG) I share the concern for the democratic process in Turkey in light of the recent arrests which were made after the local elections.
We acknowledge that the DTP is an essential tool for fostering democracy in Turkey, and for this reason we firmly condemn the police operations that Prime Minister Erdoğan has ordered against you, imprisoning all three vice presidents of the DTP together with more than 300 militants and sympathisers.
This has gone on for 35 years.
Even Der Spiegel, which has nothing to do with either Doğan or Springer, writes of Erdoğan's private vendetta against Doğan.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I want to thank honourable Members, first of all, for a very serious and substantive debate on the democratic process in Turkey, and I also want this evening to thank the European Parliament for its contribution to the EU's policy in relation to Turkey.
I think that is clearly the best way of supporting a democratic transformation in Turkey, which is our objective, because it makes Turkey a better partner and a prospective possible Member State of the European Union, in line with the negotiating framework adopted in the early hours of 4 October 2005.
On the other hand, in the recent stages of the Ergenekon investigation, one may question whether all the principles of the rule of law have been truly applied or whether there are some other political purposes behind these arrests.
Yes, there has been positive progress concerning the consequences of the reform of the infamous Article 301 some one or two years ago.
The debate is closed.
