President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur Rumiana Jeleva for the two excellent reports she has produced.
On 11 June 2007, at the first informal meeting of ministers on questions of disability, the Council adopted a clear position supporting the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
On 10 March 2008 the Council adopted a resolution on the position of disabled persons in the European Union.
The Presidency will keep you informed about progress in the talks that are underway in the Council.
As both the Convention and its optional protocol came into force one year ago, on 3 May 2008, a swift conclusion by both the Member States and the Community is now a priority.
I want to express my gratitude to Parliament and in particular to the rapporteur, Ms Jeleva, for their support for the European Community's conclusion of this UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its optional protocol.
This also marks a unique first step in the activities of the European Parliament.
The European Parliament made very important points clear to me in the resolution on the situation of women with disabilities adopted in 2007.
Regrettably, so far only 4 EU Member States have ratified the Convention and the Protocol.
At this moment we must of course applaud the 7 states that have ratified the convention.
I would like to mention the meeting of the Council of the European Disability Forum which took place in Prague between 28 February and 1 March 2009.
The Presidency is determined to develop significant activities in this area, including regular contacts with voluntary sector representatives at a pan-European level.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like once again to thank all who participated in the interesting debate, especially the rapporteur, Mrs Jeleva - especially for the important resolution that will be adopted in plenary tomorrow.
rapporteur. - (BG) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone for their participation and the views they have expressed.
The vote will take place on Friday 24 April 2009.
