Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Mr President, it is curious that, whatever the crisis, the answer in this House always seems to be greater European integration.
Instead, we are doing precisely the opposite. (MT) I voted in favour of this report because it places heavy emphasis on the importance of solidarity, on the fact that a common asylum policy needs to be built upon solidarity.
However, I would like to underline the fact that there are certain paragraphs in the report that I cannot go along with and that I would have voted against had we been given an individual vote.
I believe that we must be very careful when referring to the detention of asylum seekers because it is not simply a question of deciding to put a stop to detention once and for all and to have it apply to everyone.
There are certain specific circumstances whereby the use of detention policy is, and will, always remain important. (NL) Mr President, I voted against the Catania report, as I totally and utterly disagree with the Commission's recent proposals on asylum policy, which the rapporteur welcomes in this report.
In addition, I believe that this whole area must remain an exclusive competence of the Member States. (NL) Mr President, I voted against the Catania report, as it clearly reflects an extreme left-wing bias aimed at rendering any efficient asylum management system simply impossible.
All abuses of the existing systems in the Member States are defended and, if possible, cast in stone in legislation.
The rapporteur is pleased that the Court of Justice rejects a list of safe countries, even though such a list is essential to keep the flow of refugees under control.
However, this is not what the majority of Europeans wants, and so this will be featuring prominently in our election campaign. (DE) Mr President, I am in favour of a common asylum policy for the European Union that would lead to quick and certain decisions.
That said, I am against this report, as it contains elements that are absolutely unacceptable, such as the broadening of the term refugee way beyond what the Geneva Convention currently states; rejecting the regulation of safe third countries that we had already managed to reach a positive agreement on; giving Frontex tasks that have absolutely nothing to do with it; allowing asylum seekers a free choice of which country is to be responsible for the procedure - which represents the abandonment of the Dublin Convention; and easier access to the labour market for asylum seekers.
Overall, the development in the Union is heading in the positive direction of a common policy, but what has been proposed in this report is completely counterproductive.
If you think I am being extreme by drawing a parallel between an authoritarian State in China and the European Union, prove me wrong by putting your Treaty to the people in the referendums that you promised.
I have to admit that it is very rare for me to be lobbied, in Northern Ireland, to vote on an EU directive in a positive way, but I was on this one, and I was delighted to see such a positive vote today.
We made some progress in the amendments in relation to agricultural issues in general, but my vote in the end was to abstain, rather than vote against, because there is much in this report around the environment, about power generation and emissions of which I am in favour. (DE) Mr President, I very much welcome the central element of the Krahmer report, the European safety network.
The integrated approach is welcome, but the stringent rules in this report are of concern, and I am concerned that the implementation costs should not be so heavy that they undermine the environmental protection provisions.
I would like firstly to point out that the rapporteur who introduced this into our Rules of Procedure was Marylène Renault, not me.
There, the Commission is putting forward a proposal to change one element of a package of existing legislation and to simply codify the rest without changing it.
However, there would be a problem under the Treaty with regard to the demarcation of the right of initiative between us and the Commission.
On the other hand, in the chapter on buildings, this House neglects to take a clear stance on the monthly travelling circus to Strasbourg that costs approximately EUR 200 million per year.
The whole of the European Union's budget amounts to less than 1% of GDP and it has been a declining proportion of GDP in recent years.
On the other hand, in certain areas, it can be of huge structural significance and gradually improve the structure of Europe's economy.
On research and development, on some aspects of regional fund spending and social spending, we can help prepare our economy for the recovery.
However, I think that trend needs to be accelerated and we need to continue much more rapidly in that direction of shifting resources to where they can make a real difference. (MT) I voted in favour of the alternative motion on this report and I abstained when it came to the principle motion.
We must also monitor the other negative effects of this branch of the entertainment industry, including money laundering and organised crime in general.
And as far as these areas are concerned, I am fundamentally opposed to a free market. (IT) Mr President, I was unsure as to how to vote on Mrs Schaldemose's report on the integrity of online gambling and for what reason.
He told me: 'Oh, online gambling, I have lost EUR 10 000'.
A little later I met a retired lady, Lucia Annone.
I decided, however, how to vote when even my mother, who is 94, said to me: 'You gave me a computer and I have lost my entire pension for March 2009, EUR 450'.
However, according to Mrs Schaldemose, that EUR 3 billion is only 5% of the total gambling market in the European Union.
However, consider the hypocrisy of this report.
We understand the importance of jobs, but let us make sure that we are making good economic decisions. (CS) Mr President, SMEs, unfortunately, still do not comprise the backbone of the economy, especially in the new Member States, and yet they represent hopes for a certain degree of employment security.
Of course, we need more flexible employment laws so that these small firms can also react flexibly to new demands and reward specialists more easily in line with new objectives.
And most important of all, we also need to have easier access not only to credit, but also to drawdowns of financial resources from European funds.
I have voted in favour of Mrs Herczog's report but the whole exercise is pointless unless the Member States are willing to work on it. (SK) Mr President, I voted for Mrs Herczog's report.
Many Member States' plans for economic recovery stress the important role small businesses can play in bringing us out of the present crisis. 99.2% of my region's businesses employ fewer than 49 people.
I welcome initiatives like JASMINE, which I think are moving us in the right direction, but we need to think in terms of funding, market access and legislation and about the specific needs of small business.
It is very difficult to get speaking time in some of the key debates if you are not in agreement with the big group's line, without either dramatically compromising your position or kissing backside in endless mind-numbingly boring meetings, and that is why, for people like me, explanations of vote are very important.
We also need to help small businesses when it comes to public procurement and competing with large businesses but, especially in the current times, in dealing with the shortage of credit to make sure that viable businesses continue to grow and create wealth and jobs in the European Union.
in writing. - I realise that the Costa report deals with technical aspects of air services between the Union and Israel.
I am voting in favour of the report on the Agreement between the EC and Israel on certain aspects of air services.
I myself am rapporteur for the report on developing a common aviation area with Israel, within the framework of the Commission's proposal on a global agreement on aviation with this important partner of the European Union in the Middle East and in the context of the European Neighbourhood Policy, and one of the main trading partners in the Euromed area.
As a result of the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the EU, the European Parliament will give its assent to the Council's draft decision concerning the conclusion of the additional protocol to the Agreement on Trade, Development and Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union.
I think that it is particularly important that all the agreements signed by the EU with third countries include Romania, as an EU Member State.
Romania must enjoy all the rights and obligations of an EU Member State.
The treaty radically changed the lives of many European citizens by focusing on a new approach to border management.
The new phase, dedicated to integrated border management, started in 2002, which led to the creation of a common corpus of legislation, a common coordination mechanism, operational cooperation, common integrated risk assessment, trained staff and burden sharing between Member States in the run-up to a European Corps of Border Guards.
In this case, it seems inevitable that we will continue along this path and give our favourable opinion on the creation of a system of entry/exit registration, facilitating border crossing for travellers and the introduction of an electronic system of travel authorisation.
Member States are still responsible for controlling their respective borders, but only a general agreement and a common policy will allow us to tackle the fundamental challenges of managing borders and migratory flows.
This own-initiative report on the future of the management of the EU's external borders is a reasonable one, and it is tinged with a degree of realism in that it proposes, as a first stage in re-examining border management in the EU, a critical, in-depth analysis of the operation and effectiveness of the existing systems and how they interact.
That much is true, but in another place we read that 'measures to enhance border security must go hand in hand with facilitation of passenger flows and the promotion of mobility in an increasingly globalised world'.
This level of schizophrenia is quite beyond us.
As the PPE-DE rapporteur, I believe that the text must provide clearer support for preparing the next steps in integrated border management.
With regard to the EU entry/exit system, part of the data required to create this system was already collected by systems such as VIS, SIS and EURODAC.
The Commission must manage the interconnection of these systems and expand their functionality in order to streamline costs.
The security of external borders is an area which has not been looked into sufficiently, either by us in the European Parliament or by other Community institutions.
I supported this report because I strongly believe that the importance of better identification of third country nationals lies not only in the fact that it will keep out people who should not be given entry, but rather it will facilitate access for those travelling legitimately.
I also want to emphasise the importance of coordinating this potential plan with the experience and objectives of the Schengen area, which is the clearest example of the type of open area all of us want in Europe.
The correct operation of the entry/exit system will depend from both an equipment and operational perspective on the success of the systems VIS, SIS II and EURODAC.
I believe that it is absolutely essential for a comprehensive master plan to be drafted which sets out the general framework for the EU's border strategy and ensures coordination and cooperation between the various systems and authorities with responsibilities in this area.
Increasing border security, which should proceed in tandem with improving the free movement of people in an increasingly unified Europe, is an important element in this.
However, the ultimate objective should be to strike a balance between ensuring the free movement of people and providing greater security for the citizens of Europe.
However, let us remember that public confidence in the activities of the authorities must form the basis of any legislative activity in this area.
Mr President, I intend to support Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert's report on the important issue of the next steps in border management in the European Union and similar experiences in third countries.
I agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to evaluate and assess existing measures within the framework of border management before investing further resources and developing the systems that the Commission seems to prefer, namely an exit/entry system for all third country nationals, a registered traveller programme (RTP) also open to them and a framework for the development of local registered traveller schemes and automated border controls.
These procedures have great potential but it needs to be stressed, and in this respect, I welcome the rapporteur's work, that absolute priority must be given to guaranteeing the protection of personal data and the development of technology that is minimally invasive from the point of view of people's confidentiality, not forgetting, finally, a thorough cost-benefit analysis.
Bearing in mind the importance of free movement as part of the European project, the purpose of the measures adopted over the years has been to ease controls at internal borders.
In a situation where, for instance in 2006, up to 8 million illegal immigrants were registered in the EU, I consider that the Commission's initiative to introduce an entry/exit system, a Registered Traveller Programme and an Electronic System of Travel Authorisation during the 2012-2015 period is necessary.
However, we must not lose sight of the fact that there are already border protection systems available, such as EUROSUR and FRONTEX.
The removal of border controls is merely an inevitable consequence of the EU neoliberal project and its vital interest in the free movement of capital, goods and persons (in other words, workers).
The EU should be chalking up successes first and foremost in the areas of peace and social policy, but unfortunately, of course, these are always far fewer in number.
With regard to the external borders of the EU, I would also like to stress that the recent past in Europe has clearly shown that political and social problems cannot be solved through police or routine measures.
in writing. - (SV) In this explanation of vote, we Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament aim to explain why we chose to vote in favour of Mr Lehne's report on the cross-border transfer of the registered office of a company.
We believe that this is an important complement to the Lehne report on the European private company statute.
Furthermore, we would like to see the words 'the European Parliament emphasises the positive effects of tax competition on economic growth in the context of the Lisbon Strategy' deleted from the report.
I am therefore against this report because there is a real risk that the cross-border transfer of registered offices will circumvent the legal, social and fiscal requirements of the European Union.
We need to emphasise the integration of asylum seekers into their new environment and to ensure that they are given the opportunity to learn the language of the country they are staying in, as this will increase their chances of being assimilated into their new culture.
I voted in favour of this own-initiative report by the Italian Member of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, Giusto Catania, on the future of the European Common Asylum System.
This report has the merit of providing a clear account of the situation and of specifying the challenges to come for the European Union in the context of this debate.
Through this vote, I am joining the French socialists in denouncing a situation which is no longer acceptable and which Europe, as a democratic institution and human rights protector, must remedy.
All political refugees have the right to enter the European Union and, once their status has been recognised, to reside on European territory.
The Member States, for their part, are allegedly necessarily deaf to their distress, repressive and too slow to take decisions.
in writing. - We are in agreement with the main thrust of the compromise report and are therefore voting for it.
I feel that they do not fully reflect and precisely interpret the complex and difficult situation of small Member States like Malta.
In reality, there is only one objective behind this desire to create a common European asylum system, namely to give the Member States of the European Union the legal option of receiving as many potential immigrants as possible, more easily and without restrictions, which were deemed to be useless and contrary to human rights.
Hence - and this is indeed understandable for these pro-immigration types - the simple fact that each Member State still has sovereignty and its own procedures in asylum law inevitably leads to disparities in the acceptance of asylum applications and is thus a barrier to the general acceptance of asylum applicants.
Mr Catania is pretending to have forgotten that most of the illegal immigrants arriving in Europe - 75 000 of them in 2008 on the Mediterranean coast alone - are not political refugees but economic refugees, fleeing poverty in their countries.
The number of refugees is constantly rising, and the current regulations and directives governing asylum are no longer coping with the situation.
There must be a common asylum system, and one that leads to 'uniform and reasonable time limits'.
The Dublin system currently in force, under which the wishes of asylum seekers, for example, their choice of a European country, cannot be taken into consideration, must be revised to the effect that people who are recognised as being in special need of protection are also able to live in another EU country.
I support the Commission's proposal and the own-initiative report, but I would point out, once again, that, on this issue, rapid and uniform implementation is crucial.
My party, the Dutch Socialist Party, does not believe that harmonising asylum policy and dressing up an agency to govern this in future would lead to a more even distribution of the number of asylum applications among the various Member States.
Further upgrading can be arranged without the need for such an agency, while some of the measures envisaged fall within the competence of other organisations such as Frontex.
It is absolutely not acceptable for this new agency to produce risk analyses that the Member States are then compelled to use, which is to say it would be prescribed which asylum seekers the Member States must accept.
All these considerations make coordination and collaboration between Member States necessary, without the above meaning that asylum should become an alternative means of gaining entry to immigration, or, even less so, a means of getting round the illegality of certain migratory flows.
To that end, rather than a common asylum system in Europe and rather than building a 'Europe of asylum', to use the words of the European Pact on Asylum and Immigration, adopted by the European Council last October, it would be more desirable to build a 'Europe of rights', which is to say, a Europe that combats the causes behind the increase in the number of refugees as pointed out by the rapporteur, which adopts a stronger international role to resolve conflicts in certain countries, which exerts pressure more decisively so that respect for dignity, human life and fundamental freedoms is guaranteed, wherever that is not yet the case.
In recent years, the number of refugees in the EU has grown to 12 million, in addition to which there are 26 million internally displaced people.
During the first phase (1999-2005), the EU attempted to harmonise the approach of Member States' policies on the basis of common minimum standards.
I support the call for the improvement of the existing legislation with regard to both the Asylum Procedures Directive, the Directive determining the conditions for reception, and the Directive that grants or withdraws refugee status.
The report has my support, as it is important that a standard of protection be introduced for refugees and that all Member States show solidarity in shouldering their responsibility and cooperating purposefully.
Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Stauner's report on the Commission action plan towards an integrated internal control framework of the Union's budget.
The principles of sound financial management and budgetary transparency are fundamental, not only in order to obtain a positive statement of assurance from the European Court of Auditors, by means of simplifying legislation on controls and the resultant potential reduction in associated costs, but also, in the medium term, in order to monitor more effectively the use of the resources of the citizens of the European Union and, as a result, to enhance the legitimacy of EU action.
It is clear that, in order to promote efficiency and hence avoid any unnecessary waste of time and money, direct contacts between courts and full cooperation between them should be promoted.
in writing. - British Conservative MEPs are in favour of equality of treatment and access for men and women in all aspects of society, including the performing arts.
However, we wish to record that we disagree with the concept of quotas as implied, for example, in paragraph 12 of the report.
We voted in favour of this report because it underlines the scale and persistence of the inequalities between men and women in the performing arts and their impact on society as a whole.
It also emphasises the absolute necessity of promoting and encouraging women's access to all the artistic professions in which they are in the minority.
As is stressed in the report, the percentage of women employed in artistic professions and in the official culture industry is very small.
Women are also under-represented in positions of responsibility in cultural institutions and in the academies and universities where some arts are studied.
That is why we agree with many of the proposals presented here, emphasising the need for promotion of women's access to all the artistic professions and other professional activities related to performance in which they are in the minority.
Member States also should be encouraged to remove any impediments to women's access to management positions in cultural institutions, as well as in academies and universities.
in writing. - (SV) It goes without saying that we in the June List stand for equal treatment, equal pay for equal work and the fundamental principle of the equality of men and women.
We have therefore voted in favour of this report.
We are opposed to the European Parliament attempting to determine how the individual Member States should, for example, structure their national childcare or apply a quota system.
in writing. - This report highlights the persistent inequalities in career prospects and opportunities between women and men in the performing arts sector.
I support this report which urges Member States to take specific measures to encourage and promote women to further their careers where they are under represented.
Where men are favoured over women, or vice versa, there must be serious corrections and viable protection to end this inconsistency.
For this reason, it is my duty and that of the PPE-DE Party to give a vote of confidence to any legislation that supports equality, corrects wrongdoings, and better preserves cohesion between members of the opposite sex.
There is also the fact that working hours in the performing arts are long and non-standard.
If these aspects are improved, the objective proposed in the report of having a representation level of 30% in the arts can be achieved.
Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Gibault's report on equality of treatment and access for men and women in the performing arts.
It is essential that the efforts to reduce CO2 emissions do not undermine other equally important aspects of car design, and do not negatively affect road safety.
I believe that stimulating and investing in the development of an innovative European motor industry will effectively enable us to protect jobs in this sector, which has been worst hit by the financial crisis.
in writing. - MEP Schwab has proposed a report which aims to increase car safety through the introduction of increased safety measures requirements for car manufacturers.
The regulation combines advances in European manufacturing and technology and increased levels of safety protection that the European consumer can expect.
I am delighted to support this report which will benefit us all.
I have voted in favour of this report, as consumers need and want safer and more environmentally-friendly vehicles.
As far as tyres are concerned, I believe the efforts to reduce CO2 emissions through the use of better tyres with less rolling resistance, as well as the introduction of electronic tyre pressure monitoring systems, to be worthwhile.
The EU is advocating a possible reduction in these costs of EUR 20 billion by 2010.
It is also advocating a possible reduction in CO2 emissions of 50 million tonnes.
It goes without saying that the effects of these measures will only be evident in the long term.
in writing. - I support this regulation which will make cars and roads safer by bringing in new technologies.
This report reduces CO2 emissions through new standards which tyres must reach, which will improve fuel efficiency and cut fuel bills.
The aim of the report, which is excellent, is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market while, at the same time, providing for a higher level of safety and environmental protection.
These type-approval requirements have been harmonised at Community level in order to avoid differing systems from one Member State to another, and to ensure a high level of road safety and environmental protection throughout the Community.
in writing. - (SV) The original IPPC Directive, along with the other six directives, has not been fully implemented in the EU Member States and therefore, these directives do not fulfil their purpose.
in writing. - We strongly support the original IPPC Directive.
During the vote this morning, there were a number of problematic amendments regarding the new IPPC proposal. 1.
On poultry, the IPPC already controls 40 000 poultry places.
An amendment would reduce the threshold values from 40 000 to 30 000 for laying hens, 24 000 for ducks and 11 500 for turkeys.
in writing. - The initial provisions of this report would have left National Health Service hospitals in my region of north-east England and elsewhere in the UK facing massively increased costs for their heating boilers.
Notwithstanding these concerns, we must act in concert to address the common threat of climate change and environmental pollution.
This proposal for a directive seeks to revise and bring together, in a single text, seven separate directives on industrial emissions.
As the report states, this legislative process could have implications for 52 000 industrial plants in Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against Mr Krahmer's report on industrial emissions.
This task should be wholly assigned to a Community authority, not a local or national one.
The specific characteristics of a region must not be a discriminating factor in this field, since different minimum thresholds result in extremely variable costs and returns, which then inevitably affect the true competitiveness of businesses.
The proposal for a directive by the European Commission on industrial emissions and the amendments by the European Parliament reveal, once again, that the real objective of the 'green economy' is not to protect the environment, but to safeguard the profits of capital.
The pronouncements by the European Commission about limiting emissions of greenhouse gases are misleading and disorientating.
This directive concerns more than 52 000 industrial plants which account for a large proportion of emissions in the Member States of the EU and are even jointly responsible for the failure to achieve the targets set by the European Commission itself for reducing atmospheric pollution.
in writing. - The Commission's proposal on a Statute for a European private company allows an opportunity for non-serious companies to circumvent the rules on worker participation.
If the private European company has its registered office in a Member State with low or no workers' participation and performs its activities in another Member State with high participation, the company can circumvent the rules.
The compromise now states that when the companies have a certain quota of their employees in another Member State with higher worker participation compared to the Member State where the company has its headquarters, the more favourable rules for worker participation will apply.
The levels to trigger worker participation are still high compared to the rules in some Member States and there are also problems with the definition of what is regarded as being a higher level of worker participation.
I actually think this a much better idea than the European private company.
If the Commission were to endeavour to facilitate the cross-border transfer of company registered offices, reducing red tape, the whole proposal for the European private company would be redundant.
The time and money saved by SMEs through this measure, resulting from the Small Business Act, point out a clear course for future European business policy.
in writing. - (SV) I voted against in the final vote with regard to the Statute for a European private company (SPE).
The boundary between when national law is to be applied as opposed to the statute for a European private company is very unclear.
I support the report which will lead to greater protection for workers and the information they are provided with by their company.
For that reason, the right to information, consultation and worker participation, without restrictions, must take the same form as in the existing rules on the European company (Societas Europae - SE) and the European cooperative society (Societas Cooperativa Europaea - SCE).
We call upon the Council of Ministers to improve the proposal in the following ways: the addition of clear references to the Directive on a European company (SE), in particular, to its standard rules in respect of the election of members to the administrative or supervisory board, the simplification of the impracticable provision of Article 34; the significant lowering of the thresholds, the stipulation that a European private company really is active across borders.
Procedural requirements, red tape and high costs of registration should not get in the way of people who want to develop their business idea.
The European Union consists of 27 Member States with different legal systems and different systems for setting up companies.
The resolution now adopted therefore timidly says that the Community budget for 2010 must be closer to the limits set out in the Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013 - which, in addition to being clearly inadequate, is not even observed - and also recognises that the category of expenditure is 'insufficient'.
I do not believe that the European Parliament's credibility comes from promotion or from establishing links to budget items.
Moreover, while I agree with the principle of maximum transparency, I believe that the funds to be allocated to the various sectors should be shared out without any discrimination in terms of efficiency or results.
The EU's taxpayers would not notice any difference if a strict savings plan were to be imposed on these two institutions.
We have therefore chosen to vote against this report concerning, among other things, the European Parliament's budget for 2010.
We welcome the fact that linguistic issues are now regarded by the EP as a 'fundamental principle' in its priorities for the Community budget for 2010: 'Cannot stress enough the fundamental principle that all Members should be equally provided with full and quality services allowing them to work and express themselves and to receive documents in their native language ...'; 'Considers that 2010 should be a year when the utmost effort must be made so that Members of all nationalities and languages are treated equally in terms of their possibility to carry out their duties and all political activity incumbent upon them in their own language if they so choose'; 'stresses, ..., the principle of democratic legitimacy through all its composite Members and their right to full multilingualism; therefore considers that this budget can and should be used to work towards this goal ...' However, we cannot forget that the proposals presented on the budget by the MEPs from the Portuguese Communist Party - which called for all the official languages of the EU to be available at meetings (both those held within the Community institutions and external meetings held as part of Parliament's work) - have successively been rejected over the years.
In point 5 of the motion for a resolution, in fact, mention is made of a complete adaptation in view of Croatia's accession to the European Union.
in writing. - This report addresses significant weaknesses in the current regulatory framework.
Mrs Schaldemose's report on the integrity of online gambling is an example of how a pragmatic, cooperative approach from Member States can result in an approach that has consumer protection at its core.
The report recognises that the integrity of online gambling is best dealt with by recognising the principle of subsidiarity in this area and allowing Member States to regulate the industry themselves.
It is absolutely essential that sport is first and foremost recognised for its social, entertainment and health values and that these values are in no way threatened or manipulated for financial gain.
This report seeks to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to ensure a fair and transparent gaming environment in cyberspace.
It is also important in my view to take all reasonable steps to prohibit minors from gaming online.
Mr President, I am very satisfied with the result of the vote on Mrs Schaldemose's report on online gambling.
That also applies to the many studies that show that the Internet as a tool multiplies these risks.
In many countries in Europe, the proceeds from these games amount to significant sums of money that go, for example, to the arts, science, youth work and hospitals.
in writing. - I voted against the report on the integrity of online gambling as I believe the alternative motion, which was rejected by the plenary, would have better reflected the up-to-date position in the online gambling sector.
I share concerns about citizens being ripped off and the worries about gambling addiction, but note that gambling is controlled in the majority of Member States in order to protect citizens against gambling addiction and fraud and to prevent money laundering.
This is also an area where cooperation between Member States is desperately needed, particularly from the point of view of cross-border services.
This report on online gambling shows that a pragmatic approach, based on cooperation, can ensure that consumer protection is at the heart of European Union policies.
Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Schaldemose's report on the integrity of online gambling.
in writing. - Unfortunately, I was unable to participate in the votes on Christel Schaldemose's report on the integrity of online gambling.
However, I would like to use this opportunity to agree with the rapporteur, as the report points out several important and dangerous aspects concerning online gambling.
In 2004, online gambling accounted for roughly 5% of the total gambling market in the EU and the numbers have been increasing rapidly over the past few years.
The impact of online gambling, as the rapporteur points out correctly, has not yet been examined in depth.
in writing. - The Schaldemose report on the integrity of online gambling sets out Member States' responsibilities in regulating their gambling markets so as to protect vulnerable consumers, especially children, to tackle crime and to protect sporting events from risks such as match-fixing.
A number of Member States are currently reviewing their legislation on gambling to ensure it is compliant with the EU Treaties.
I have therefore chosen to wholeheartedly endorse the Schaldemose report.
Therefore, the Commission must have an office which would be responsible for approving and allowing the use of these systems on a European scale and which would ensure uniform and effective control at European and national levels.
A system of this kind should also be applied to processed food products, indicating the origin of the main ingredients and raw materials, and specifying their place of origin as well as the place of final processing.
It does focus on important issues such as country of origin labelling, developing the organic market, where European products are the finest in the world, and exploiting the strengths of farming in Europe to give our farmers an advantage when taking their products to market - and this part is welcome.
Implementation of 'qualified market access' offers a solution for guaranteeing that the products available to European consumers, whether produced domestically or imported, meet the same standards. 2.
The promotion of specifically European agricultural and food products.
As I also requested in the report on the amendment of Regulation No 3/2008, the European Union's cofinancing rate must be increased.
I hope that the recommendations we are going to adopt will be implemented as soon as possible by the European Commission and Member States because we cannot afford to waste time in such circumstances when European citizens are being hit by the effects of an extremely serious economic recession.
Despite its good intentions, the report continues and even extends the policies which are at the root of problems experienced by many small producers, particularly in Portugal.
This is especially true for small producers, as is the case for many small cheese dairies producing Serra da Estrela cheese of undeniable quality.
The application of these standards is destroying the diversity, in terms of production and of culture, of countries like Portugal.
The rapporteur is quite right to stress that we need to stipulate that agricultural and food products imported into Europe must meet the same standards as are required of European producers, which is unfortunately not always the case at present.
There are, however, still some problems that need to be solved, including that of unfair intra-Community competition, where one Member State lays down stricter standards than are provided for at Community level, primarily for reasons of public health or environmental protection.
in writing. - (SV) This report, which does not form part of any legislative process, recommends a number of costly proposals, such as an EU agency for product quality and new sales promotion and sales supporting measures within agriculture.
We would also like to point out that this report contains wordings that could lead to a more protectionist policy for agricultural goods on the part of the EU.
In the vote, I was in favour of Maria Petre's report on ensuring food quality.
The rapporteur favours the introduction of a European service responsible for certification and food quality at Commission level to ensure that minimum certification requirements are met.
This would provide a uniform system of control at EU and Member State level.
The report which my colleague, Maria Petre, presented to us today contains a series of recommendations which I confidently support.
I believe that we must ensure that we provide consumers with correct information about the origin of products in order to support European agriculture.
I rather think that the purpose of introducing this mark must be to promote European products and the benefits which they enjoy over those from third countries and to provide European consumers with better information.
Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Petre's report on ensuring food quality and harmonisation of the relevant standards.
in writing. - (SV) I chose not to support Mrs Petre's report on promoting and increasing the labelling of food.
The introduction and cultivation of GMOs and the series of food scandals show that the quality and safety of food in the EU are subordinate to the interests of big business.
The classification of food on the basis of quality is food differentiation on the basis of class in keeping with the market rationale' first-class food for high incomes and second-class food for working class families.
The essential elements of this process are cooperation between national competition institutions and coordination through the European Competition Network.
in writing. - This report highlights the importance of the free trade and fair competition principle and affirms the importance of what was signed in the Treaty of Rome.
We must ensure effective anti-trust measures so that we will be protected against restrictive trade abuse.
These abuse their purchasing power to force down prices paid to suppliers in the European Union and in third countries.
in writing. - Given the state of the economic crisis which grips the European Union and which has a global reach, it was important for Parliament to find agreement.
in writing. - Small businesses are the backbone of the European economy, accounting for 98% of all European businesses and employing up to 60% of the EU's workers.
in writing. - This act proposes various measures, some of which might be of assistance to small businesses, but whose overall effect is to promote EU control, churning of the population, feminist agendas and infiltration of businesses by EU officials 'on work experience'.
The initiative to create the most favourable conditions for SMEs to obtain funding (risk capital, micro-credits, etc.) is very important.
in writing. - Every initiative that supports SMEs or improves their conditions should be applauded, and this report has many valid arguments that will be of great value to SMEs throughout Europe.
in writing. - This report proposes various measures, some of which might be of assistance to small businesses, but whose overall effect is to promote EU control, churning of the population, feminist agendas and infiltration of businesses by EU officials 'on work-experience'.
Although 99% of the EU's businesses are SMEs (23 million) - responsible for the creation of 80% of the new jobs in the EU in recent years - the majority of the rules normally created are aimed at the 41 000 large European companies.
Furthermore, because of their flexible nature, SMEs are companies that are accustomed to being at the forefront of innovation in their areas, making the Small Business Act an important step forward in realising the Lisbon Strategy.
in writing. - The Commission's proposal for a Small Business Act is part of a communication containing legislative proposals, guiding principles and measures to be implemented to help SMEs in Europe.
While I agree with much of this report, I am wary of proposals for a corporate consolidated tax base and voted against accordingly.
In fact, in the name of the 91.5% of businesses in the European Union that employed less than 10 workers in 2003, they want better conditions in order to destroy essential public services, deregulate the labour market and call into question social and working rights.
That is why we voted against this report: in defence of real measures in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and in defence of other policies that safeguard their role and significant contribution to production in the industrial, agricultural and fishing sectors, and to employment with rights, trade and meeting the public's basic needs.
I voted in favour of the Herczog report on the establishment of a Small Business Act.
The European Parliament has sent a clear signal to the Council and to the European Commission in order to ensure that the Small Business Act is actually implemented, namely 'priority for SMEs', so that these new measures can be understood and applied by all such enterprises, particularly by including the following actions: avoiding unnecessary burdens, promoting the emergence of innovative medium-sized companies beyond the Community definition of SMEs (250 employees), and making it easier for SMEs to get access to funding and public procurement contracts so as to increase their growth potential.
On a more operational level, it also includes a package of more than 50 separate measures, including four legislative proposals that translate these principles into action.
I also support the idea of having a specific budget line for SMEs... (The explanation of vote was cut short pursuant to Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - Paragraph 68 of this report contains a reference to a common consolidated corporate tax base, stating that there should be a common basis for company taxation.
Policy, public intervention and the social environment must all meet the real needs of small enterprises, which truly form the backbone of the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) It is well-known that SMEs are responsible for more than 90% of jobs in Europe.
in writing. - I welcome this report and was pleased to vote for its main text with little exception.
A combined effort is required on the part of financial institutions, the Commission and Member States to ensure SMEs' access to finance and to offer them the possibility of consolidating their capital by reinvesting their profit in the company.
