European Institute of Technology (debate) The next item is the report by Reino Paasilinna, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Institute of Technology - C6-0355/2006 -.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am happy to be here tonight to take a very important step with not only your approval but your engagement in proposing and establishing a European Institute of Technology (EIT).
I also welcome those amendments aimed at streamlining the EIT's financial management in clarifying that the procedure laid down in point 47 of the interinstitutional agreement applies to this setting-up.
But I strongly believe that the wording on degrees and diplomas should remain untouched.
This was requested by the European Council in June.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, the European Institute of Technology has been in preparation for more than a year and time has passed because the Commission's original proposal needed improving considerably.
Parliament's committees, led by the Committee on Industry, Research and Industry, have been reworking the proposal to give it a new look.
The election of the EIT's Governing Board will very much bring to mind the way the European Research Council was elected, and so the science world has been arguing over the procedure.
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology will, as its name suggests, focus on innovation.
The EIT will offer the private sector a new kind of contact with the educational and research community.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission presents its proposal to establish the European Institute of Technology as a project creating an important European institution that will integrate research, education and innovation and will help to transform innovative discoveries into commercial opportunities.
The main problem is that the funding was not explicitly included in the multi-annual financial framework for 2007-2013: the sum involved is EUR 308 million.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its report on policy strategies for 2007 the European Parliament expressed scepticism regarding the European Institute of Technology, stressing the risk of duplication of structures already in existence and fearing that it might compete with already limited funding for research.
The funding should be added as a supplement to the current Financial Perspective and the new resources should come from various sources - Community, national, regional and private.
These training qualifications will bear the EIT label as a European mark of excellence, although the training qualification will aim to take account of the diversity of the higher education landscape in the European Union.
I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Paasilinna, and I would like to thank the Commission and the German Presidency, who really helped to make progress on the text.
In this context, conferring on the Institute the status of an agency on the basis of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006, and specifically part C of it and Article 47, is of immeasurable importance, as is the Committee's proposal concerning the increase in the margin in section 1A in the budget for 2007-2013, guaranteeing the Institute EUR 309 million.
I therefore warmly support the decision of the authorities in Wrocław who are seeking to get the Governing Board or one of the knowledge communities to set up their offices in the city, where as many as 140 000 students are studying.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SL) Mr President.
We were aware that there was a shortage of around 100 000 engineers and researchers in Europe and that we could not stimulate innovation per se merely by direct incentives and projects.
The research and academic groups which will become members of the knowledge and innovation community within the EIT will have to demonstrate their excellence.
As Mr Paasilinna, whom I warmly congratulate on his work, has also proposed, we need a limited number in order to assemble any pilot schemes at all.
The fact that we are essentially using research funds is totally acceptable, but it is absolutely right to seek new funding opportunities, for this project as well as for Galileo for example, partly in the context of surplus budgeted funds, funds that have not been spent, and partly with new commitments by the individual Member States.
One important point - and Mr Paasilinna has also brought this up - is that the EIT and the KICs have helped us in holding on to, as well as winning back, high-calibre employees in Europe.
If we can recreate new opportunities through these institutions so that high-calibre employees stay in Europe or come back from America or other countries, then a substantial contribution will have been made to Europe once again becoming a hub for new technologies.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Paasilinna for his very effective cooperation.
The rapporteurs have been working very well together.
The best evidence of this is the lively response from businesspeople, local authorities and the scientific community in Lower Silesia.
Before the legislative procedure for this has been completed, we already have a specially set up company, EIT+, we have a willingness to involve structural funds, we have letters of intent from the largest businesses in Lower Silesia, and we also have 35 000 signatures of people who live in Lower Silesia, who are calling for the Institute or institutions forming part of it to be located in Wrocław.
The European proposal of EUR 308 million is clearly inadequate and, moreover, it is a much, much lower figure than what the European Commission itself proposed based on its studies.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, adding an institute of technology to stand with the existing universities sounds a good idea, but that is not what is on offer.
Europeans like Archimedes, Newton, Pasteur, Ehrlich, Röntgen, Fermi, Teller and Watson-Watt were brought on by no institute.
Above all, it must not drain the budget allocated to the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development - which is already meagre enough - but should receive additional funding.
No one questions the need for innovation and research in Europe, but this is the wrong way to do it.
This is because we need to ensure that, not only is the EIT funded, but also that it is not funded and getting its finances via money that otherwise would have financed research and innovation in other programmes and projects.
I think this cannot be underlined too much, as the funding for the EIT must come from other items in the budget than those which today contribute to the efforts of innovations and research in the Seventh Framework Programme, in the CIP or other items under the 1A heading.
The EU - population 500 million - employs 1.2 million scientists.
The US - population 300 million - has 1.3 million.
Europe spends less than EUR 10 000 per student, the US more than EUR 35 000.
Out of 2 500 universities, only around 100 are truly excellent and these share EUR 32 billion each year of research funding.
If our governments do not set aside more money for research, the EIT and other schemes will fall by the wayside.
Each year, the US produces some 40 000 doctors.
Without a change in attitude, Mr President, the EIT will not make any difference. (PL) Mr President, I would like to express the hope that the Knowledge and Innovation Communities that make up the European Institute of Technology will be spread evenly across the European Union.
I would like to stress that locating the Institute's Governing Board and the Knowledge and Innovation Community in Wrocław will not in any way clash with the fundamental criterion for the EIT - the criterion of excellence; in fact quite the contrary.
It is worth pointing out that, in parallel to the work going on in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, some important matters have also come before our Budget Committee in connection with the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
It has been agreed that about EUR 400 million will be earmarked for this purpose for next year, and by 2013 the budget will be six times greater than this.
My city of Wrocław meets all the criteria to become the headquarters of the Governing Board of a European Institute of Technology.
I myself sold it to our universities in Scotland, to our SMEs, to various other parties, and I have watched the proposal become increasingly weaker, diluted, muddled, precarious and, increasingly, underfunded.
Surely, we all agree in this Chamber that Europe does not commercialise our research enough.
We have agreed on the need to do something, but 'we must do something; this is something, therefore we must do this' is surely a bad logic, which will result in a bad, artificial, weak EU creation that will not achieve our hopes.
The European Institute for Innovation and Technology has the opportunity and potential to become a European beacon.
I am firmly persuaded of this and I regret that we have scheduled the debate on this important project so late in the day.
No, we are doing this our own way, the European way, by building up a networking structure here and promoting and supporting the universities, polytechnics, research establishments and teaching institutions we already have here.
They turned to English only in the presence of Robert Oppenheimer.
Indeed, Edward Teller, E.
Wigner and Leo Szilard were born in Hungary and they studied in Budapest.
We Hungarians belong to a relatively small nation, but we are proud to have 50 Nobel Prize winners, mostly in the natural sciences.
We do not need a huge bureaucratic organisation, just a network of the knowledge communities.
As regards financing, I do not support the idea of financing the EIT from the common agricultural policy fund, as nobody can foresee the next year's harvest in agriculture. (FI) Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Paasilinna for an excellent report.
That is why I wish the project success in the future. (PT) In March 2006 the Council recognised that the European Institute of Technology proposed by President Barroso would represent an important step to fill the gap between higher education, research and innovation.
We all know that researchers enjoy much better working conditions and pay in the United States and also that investment in the public sector, in particular linked to the defence industries, universities and the private sector are incomparably higher than those in Europe.
I shall vote in favour of the resolution, since it is the only one we have, because it is the only one left, but I regret that it did not go much further, which moreover might have entailed a special added value for us, ladies and gentlemen, since the building where we hold our sessions would become the seat of the EIT, thus doing away once and for all with the political, judicial, functional and financial aberration of having to come to Strasbourg every month for these plenary sessions. (PL) Mr President, I hope I will be able to speak for two minutes.
The same can be the case now, and that is why institutions linked to the European Institute of Technology should be located in the new Member States.
The triangle of knowledge - innovation, research and education - made up of universities, research centres and institutes and companies is indispensable for achieving the Lisbon strategy objectives, namely to have 3% of the gross domestic product invested in research, of which two thirds should come from the private environment.
The financing of this institute is the first step, but we also need investments in the field of small and medium-sized companies and in the private sector, because there are people and resources for co-financing the research projects.
The key to the success of this undertaking is, in my opinion, good cooperation between academic centres and business environments.
The European Institute of Technology must first and foremost be in a position to accumulate large amounts of private funding.
There are currently more than 140 000 students studying in Wrocław; the city is one of Poland's main research centres.
In addition to the European Research Council and the technology platforms, the joint technology initiatives, Eureka, the CIP, the Seventh Framework Programme and the JRC, we now have yet another knowledge institute.
The added value is innovation, because that is what is lacking in comparison with the United States, Japan and China.
The question is also whether SMEs can find their way amongst all these knowledge and research institutes.
Nonetheless, the new institute with its Knowledge and Innovation Communities may provide a contribution and I hope that the EIT can provide a major contribution and will excel in the field of climate policy, because a great deal of reform and innovation is sorely needed in this area.
We are far from the definite establishment, but what we have already achieved in Council and Parliament is really something very significant.
If you recall, two years ago in the media it was about Strasbourg or about something false, not about a real commitment from Europe to innovate.
It is about the way we will put together better conditions and one concrete project towards a more innovative Europe.
Secondly, on money: last week we proposed the way in which we could come to the final point where we say not only how much money but also from which source we can finance the body until 2013.
We cannot expect anybody to give a blank cheque or promises if we do not bring something credible.
I think that is all I could, or wanted to, raise as points in my response, but thank you very much for a very positive and constructive climate here in this plenary.
I am looking forward to it. (Applause) Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Paasilinna report (A5-0293/2007) The Commission can accept Amendments 3, 12, 14, 18, 20, 23, 38, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 72 and 73.
The Commission can accept, subject to redrafting, Amendments 2, 15, 17, 26, 39, 29, 30, 32, 36, 37, 41, 42, 43, 51, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57, 59, 60, 61, 62, 70 and 74.
The Commission reserves its position on amendment 21 on financial aspects pending an agreement on the funding.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 19, 22, 24, 25, 27, 31, 33, 34, 35, 47, 55, 58, 69, 71, 75, 77, 78 and 79.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The European Institute of Technology has the ability to reduce innovation gaps between the European Union and its external competitors and to gain the interest of millions of young researchers all over Europe.
The EIT should be a complementary innovation institution in Europe, not a substitute for small research and development centres.
Selecting Romania as the host country for the European Institute of Technology would stimulate economic development in the entire region and would contribute to balancing the gaps still existing in the European Union.
in writing. - Education, research and innovation are windows to the future.
The expertise lies in the participating universities and higher education institutions.
Remembering my academic years, I also support the report's idea of the EIT's 'Knowledge and Innovation Communities' (KICs) being autonomous.
This way the EIT KICs will give the best kicks to European innovation.
