Modification of Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 (the 'Single CMO Regulation') (debate) The next item is the debate on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (Single CMO Regulation) - C7-0223/2009 -.
I have taken note of your resolution of 17 September, and I hope you have noted that many of your recommendations are already covered in practice, covered by ongoing studies or will be covered by today's proposals.
I am very happy to be able to say that the reality today in the dairy market is that prices are increasing and we are no longer seeing any buy-up into intervention because the market prices are better than the intervention prices.
Regarding my proposal, Article 186 is an existing provision for a large number of products, but milk is not included.
The recent price volatility that we saw, starting in 2007, has shown that it is, or it will be, necessary to include milk under this article, because this would then allow the Commission to take faster action.
Again, to use this possibility, we need to include milk in Article 186.
When I say I announced the possibility of proposing EUR 280 million, you have to be aware that the budget authority, which is the European Parliament and the Council of Finance Ministers, will have to decide on this amount at the ECOFIN meeting on 19 November.
I also said yesterday that this is the last money that I have in my pockets, with the exception of the EUR 300 million which is necessary as a buffer to avoid financial discipline.
The inclusion of milk and milk products in Article 186 for immediate measures in the event of market disturbances is to be welcomed.
Finally, I would like to say thank you for the EUR 280 million.
Mr President, Mrs Fischer Boel, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to take the opportunity to say how pleased I am at the responsibility shown this morning by the House when it adopted the urgent procedure to include the dairy sector under Article 186 of the single CMO Regulation, along with many other agricultural products.
Parliament's openness towards the Commission today should not be interpreted as full delegation with unrestricted powers, but as a gesture of responsibility in a dramatic and wholly exceptional situation.
Commissioner, could I first of all thank you for responding positively to the resolution agreed with this House on 27 September.
I also welcome the EUR 280 million that you have announced for restructuring.
Turning to the proposal on widening the scope of Article 186 to include milk and milk products, in my experience, ministers - or in this case commissioners - usually come to parliaments asking for powers so they can take action to solve a problem.
As I understand from your contribution early on, you did mention that you needed this extra power as a legal basis to pay out the EUR 280 million.
Our group will only grant these powers if they are time limited and they are constrained to extreme circumstances.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, finally there is movement in this debate.
It is a good and useful thing that we can talk, because I do now accept the need for Article 186 to be brought into place so that we can get this money direct to the producers as fast as we possibly can.
You are going to release EUR 280 million, when only a few weeks ago it was going to be EUR 600 million.
You are therefore going to give a one-off payment of EUR 1 000 to farmers who are now losing EUR 100 to 200 per day.
The fact is, at a time when the Treaty of Lisbon is being pitched so strongly to us, we can only be surprised that you should want to enforce this Article 186 of the regulation, which will give you full powers.
Commissioner, I say to you once again that there is an urgent, a very urgent, need to provide a huge amount of help to the agricultural sector by means of a major European emergency fund, to return to a policy of minimum agricultural prices, and not to let the capitalist market destroy our farmers. (HU) Commissioner, I will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal, even though I am aware that this handout will not resolve the situation for farmers.
With reference to the content of the proposed measures, despite a lack of adequate operational details for them, I think that things are moving in the right direction towards solving the problems which our farmers are currently experiencing.
Nevertheless, I think it is vital to vote in favour of the proposal to amend Articles 78 and 79 of Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007.
With regard to Article 186 of the same CMO Regulation, I would point out first of all that paragraphs a) and b) of this article lay down different levels of protection for different goods, intervening for some when prices rise and fall significantly, whereas for others - pigmeat, olive oil and other products - only when prices rise significantly.
Lastly, I call on the Commissioner to increase, as requested in Parliament's resolution of 17 September, the amount of de minimis aid for all productive sectors regardless of the national ceilings currently in place. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, we are all unfortunately aware of the grave state of the dairy sector in Europe.
That was also why the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament voted this morning in favour of the urgent procedure that was put before us.
As I said earlier, I believe that Parliament's decision this morning equated to granting the Commission a blank cheque because we do not know what it will do with it.
Yet I also simply accept the decision - as you have to see the facts as they are and this is what has been decided - and I would say to the other Members that we must limit these measures.
We must ensure that we employ the money in a targeted way, specifically in the disadvantaged regions, in order to maintain the structures in those regions that are in greatest jeopardy. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal presented by the Commission acknowledges the failure of its policy for the dairy sector, but leaves its disastrous basic policy guidelines for the sector untouched.
I am, however, underwhelmed by the proposals concerning Articles 65 to 84.
The issue at stake this evening, the only issue that counts at the moment, is that of Article 186.
To conclude, one final thought: aid of EUR 280 million is being considered, which we do of course welcome, but I would like to remind you, Commissioner, that this Parliament adopted a resolution raising the need for an additional fund of EUR 600 million to deal with the crisis in the dairy sector. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a farmer, I see the tabled amendment of Articles 78 and 79 as a deviation by the Commission from its hitherto sound route through agricultural reform at the expense of efficient and forward-looking farms.
I therefore reject this amendment.
I think EUR 280 million is a realistic sum and will be welcome within the industry.
I am persuaded that it will be necessary to grant powers under Article 186 in order to deliver this benefit in a timely manner to the producers, so it has my support.
We live in a very volatile marketplace, and what this industry needs is not short-term reactions but long-term strategy.
I have been a long-time supporter of the Commissioner for her long-term vision for the future of the industry, and I would encourage her to go down that path, which is long-term strategy, not short-term reaction. (PL) Mr President, I hope that the milk producers now have the worst behind them.
This hope is strengthened by the decision to support milk producers with a sum of EUR 280 million next year.
Only 18 months ago, you were saying that milk prices would increase substantially, only to see them fall by half in some countries.
They are looking at their difficulties and the paltry amounts being offered while others, like banks and bankers, are being bailed out to the tune of huge sums. (The President asked the speaker to speak more slowly) The EUR 280 million milk fund announced yesterday is welcome but is merely a sticking plaster over a much wider problem.
The House voted last September that EUR 600 million should be made available.
The EUR 280 million that many have spoken about is just a drop in the ocean.
We would like to see those dairy farmers who have been hardest hit by the crisis receive the EUR 280 million.
I have argued that a situation as serious as the one faced by the dairy sector requires urgent measures to defend the sector, for both economic and social reasons.
The measures proposed here are somewhat flimsy, but they are nonetheless necessary and imperative.
In view of this, I would like the Commission to submit an annex to Article 186, setting out measures which can be used for a radical intervention in the dairy sector so as to ensure its sustainability. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I very much welcome your motion.
By buying back the milk quotas, we will be giving them a financial value again, and the main effect of that will be that it hampers the ability to do the balancing out.
For the reasons I have mentioned, I will be forced to reject this part of the motion, although I will vote in favour of the motion as a whole. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are going to adopt measures aimed at a partial solution for the crisis in the dairy sector.
They are asking us to be able to do the work in a dignified way, selling their products at respectable, fair prices that are in line with the effort and investment they have put in.
We are saying there is EUR 280 million available to them, but every additional cent they receive is worth much more than the doling out of payments to them.
That is most important.
I support the extension of Article 186 if you needed to pay out this EUR 280 million, which I regard as symbolic rather than significant.
In France, we have gone from having 480 000 milk producers in 1984 to having fewer than 88 000 today.
Today, we are told that yet more producers must be forced out and that the money that will be recouped - this appears in the text - will be used for producers who have exceeded their quota.
The money that has been given, the EUR 280 million - the figure has already been quoted - equates to EUR 50 per month and per farm, for one year.
However, many Member States claim that these quotas are unfair.
In fact, this is the reason why many Member States insist that the market should be deregulated.
However, many Member States claim that the quotas currently allocated are unfair.
This is why it is important to take into consideration the measures which each Member State is going to adopt.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that Bulgaria can only partially accept the proposals to amend Regulation 1234.
It is important that the option is retained to choose the existing scheme for buying up and redistributing milk quotas through the national reserve.
However, it should also be remembered that when we are talking about money - and it is money which we are talking about - the way in which the money is actually distributed is important.
The EUR 280 million works out at not quite EUR 2 per tonne of milk produced in the European Union.
I am sure that is not what we want. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased, Commissioner, that, just a few weeks after this House adopted a resolution on milk, you are here bringing forward measures to meet our demands.
I am also in favour of the differentiated granting of quotas that you propose.
I have to say that the proposal concerning the buying back of quotas leaves me more perplexed.
We must continue to take steps, and specifically as regards the dairy sector in difficult areas, in mountain areas, where there are simply no alternatives to dairy farming. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to offer my sincere thanks for the EUR 280 million.
I really hope, above all, that the full extent of this money reaches our 40 000 Austrian dairy farmers, as they really need it.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, having listened carefully to the discussion here tonight, I think you might get the impression from some speeches that this is the first step we are taking to help the dairy sector within the European Union.
The quota they buy out can be kept in the national reserve and distributed at a later stage if Member States so wish.
The reason for introducing dairy farming into Article 186 is the fact that we need to be able to react fast.
I can hear that there may be other ideas but if we start discussing internally how to distribute, then I think it would take at least to the end of next year because there would be so many great ideas we would never be able to find a common line on this issue.
Unfortunately, the Commission has taken a long time to act.
I would make the following points on the measures that you have presented here: 1: The fund of EUR 280 million is too little compared with the amount of EUR 600 million unanimously deemed necessary by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which is the committee with both technical and political expertise in this matter.
We cannot, therefore, consider less than half the sum that Parliament deemed essential only a month ago to be sufficient. 2: The inclusion of milk in Article 186 gives the Commission an operational tool that can be deployed instantly, but that does not mean that Parliament will no longer monitor the issue.
I welcome the measures proposed by the European Commission to help Europe's dairy producers.
However, neither the European Commission, nor Mariann Fischer Boel personally, is inclined to acknowledge that wrong decisions have been made.
The important lesson to be learned from the current crisis is that the dairy market needs to be regulated.
On the subject of the current emergency measures, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the increase in the minimum subsidies from EUR 7 500 to EUR 15 000 may cause problems for Member States in a more difficult budgetary situation.
I am confident that during the vote on the 2010 budget taking place on Thursday, the European Parliament will support the proposed amendment, submitted by a number of Members including myself, which would increase support for the school milk programme.
The rallies that milk producers have been carrying out for weeks in a bid to save their crisis-hit sector have been answered by the European Commission with the creation of a EUR 280 million 'milk fund'.
Milk producers do not want charity or handouts, they want the market to be regulated so that they can sell their milk at prices that will allow them to live a dignified life from their efforts and to guarantee their children's future.
I welcome the agreement in principle reached by agricultural ministers at their council meeting in Luxembourg on providing specific aid to the dairy sector of EUR 280 million.
After putting up bold resistance for several months, the European Commission gave in slightly to the pressure exerted by farmers, 21 Member States, including Hungary, and the European Parliament, which already demanded additional resources for the sector during their informal meeting held in Brussels last Monday.
Hungarian dairy farmers will receive directly around EUR 3.3 million from the EUR 280 million envelope, roughly equivalent to HUF 890 million.
