Peaceable passers-by, who wanted to celebrate 1956 peacefully, were not allowed to do so.
However, in October, the court again postponed its decision, this time until 19 December.
For this reason I am raising the fundamental question of whether at the European Union-Russia summit planned for 24 November this year, Poland's problems will be treated as problems which affect the European Union as a whole.
I do not know whether the President and the Commission are aware of the fact that the food and cosmetics industry is unable to keep up with these regulations, and the majority of cosmetics do not come in 100 ml packaging.
Let us at long last legislate for the good of universities, for the good of students, and not for the good of the extremists or certain extremists fighting against the state. (HU) Mr President, it might become one of the signs of discrimination against the new Member States if administrative costs for 2007 were to be reduced at their expense.
Whatever Kinga Gál and József Szájer may say in this Chamber, to my mind, it is the interview given today by Elmar Brok, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which holds true: Hungarian democracy and the rule of law are not in danger. (HU) Mr President, a few days ago, as a result of an energy network breakdown, millions of Europeans were left without power, if only for an hour.
These opinions being voiced in the European Parliament on restricting these basic democratic freedoms are dangerous. (PL) Mr President, I am shocked by the latest session of the diplomatic heads of the Member States, where the majority of foreign ministers asked for a European Union mandate to negotiate a new agreement between the EU and Russia before Russia lifts the trade restrictions it is imposing on Poland in the form of an embargo on Polish meat and agricultural produce.
In Germany too, 20 000 of the 100 000 workers at the plant may be laid off.
If we add to that the problems that we have had with Opel and General Motors in Portugal, it is quite clear that we are facing a very serious problem, an industrial crisis that demands a response.
I think the time has come for the Commission and Europe's institutions to take a very strong stand on this. (EL) Mr President, the former leader of Iraq, Saddam Hussein, has been sentenced to death by hanging for crimes against humanity, because he was found guilty of the death of 148 Shiites following an assassination attempt against him in 1982.
