Protecting children using the Internet and other communication technologies (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Angelilli, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a multiannual Community programme on protecting children using the Internet and other communication technologies - C6-0092/2008 -.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Commission, the French Presidency and my fellow MEPs, first and foremost the draftsmen of the opinions, for their hard work in drafting a compromise text at first reading that will enable the 'Safer Internet' programme to enter into force at the planned time, that is from 1 January 2009.
The new programme for children using the Internet and other communication technologies, as we know, will be based on four main lines of action: reducing illegal or harmful content and combating harmful online behaviour; promoting a safer online environment, including through ad hoc technological instruments; information, participation and prevention to raise public awareness of the opportunities and risks associated with the use of online technologies; and, lastly, establishing a knowledge base to encourage cooperation and exchanges of good practice and information at international level.
We cannot fail to consider the data supplied by Interpol reporting that at least 500 000 new original child pornography images are put online each year.
We have a generation of children born in the digital era - children who at five years old are competent users of videogames and can surf the Internet easily - and adults, their parents and teachers, many of whom do not even know how to turn on a computer or send a text message, or who use new technologies warily and with reluctance.
The programme's objectives are ambitious, perhaps too ambitious given the available budget of EUR 55 million, but it is nonetheless a good starting point.
I would like to conclude, Mr President, by emphasising that our obligation, both Parliament's and - I am convinced of this - the Commission's obligation, is never to let down our guard on these matters.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the Parliament for addressing the Commission's proposal very promptly, allowing the programme to start as early as possible.
In the real world there are risks associated with the use of the internet and mobiles phones, in particular for the more vulnerable part of our population - our children.
The protection of children must be a shared responsibility.
Of course, it starts in the family, but we have to enable families to help their children.
It will maintain what has been done in previous years regarding current internet protection but build on these successful activities and enhance the safety of children in the online environment of today.
I also took the liberty of consulting my constituents through newspaper ads about this particular dossier and so some of the comments I am going to make are based on what my constituents have said about this.
There is a lot of good practice already happening out there as regards self-regulation: mobile telephone companies like T-Mobile are leading the way in this area with the various checks and balances they put in before a child can access any content online, let alone dubious content.
Possibly Mrs Reding could suggest this at a Council meeting or two to some of the countries that are slacking in this area.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (RO) In view of the ever-changing audio-visual sector, we need not only to educate children, but also appropriately to inform parents and educators about the risks to children and to involve them in creating a situation where online information services can be used in a safe environment.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
As we have heard, the programme is aimed at fighting against harmful and illegal content, and places great emphasis on increasing awareness about the use of the Internet, as well as on promoting the development of a safe online environment.
To what has already been said I would like to add only that between 2001 and 2007, 20 000 children disappeared, 500 of whom were found.
Among the tasks listed, I would like to emphasise the fight against illegal content and combating harmful conduct online.
The other important thing we must not forget is that establishing a knowledge base will require greater and more effective cooperation among Member States.
It is no accident that this programme devotes almost half of the EUR 55 million in funding to raising public awareness, since prevention is the best cure.
I am convinced that the programme will continue after 2013 and that there will be further programmes in the European Union.
The same is true of mobile telephony.
I congratulate the rapporteur and the European Commission on tackling this issue. - (SK) As one of the co-authors of the report on the strategy on children's rights I am delighted that we are now debating in this House a bill on the protection of children who use the Internet and other communications technologies.
I am thankful that this House is prioritising activities of this kind, and I support accelerating the proposed programme so that implementation can get under way by January 2009. (SV) Mr President, I want to begin by thanking Mrs Angelilli for a constructive report in which she followed up the decisions from the children's strategy.
Our task as MEPs is to address the downside. (PL) Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Angelilli for tackling this very important issue.
Indeed, I want to thank Commissioner Reding for the EU-wide remit she has given to them.
Our parliamentary Amendment 25 calling for the establishment of these hotlines and their close liaison with the police can advance this aim.
Speedy enforcement action is needed to stop sites simply hopping servers between countries in order to avoid detection, as well as to stop the further child abuse which is perpetuated not just when the images are formed but also every time they are viewed. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission proposal to establish a European programme on protecting children using the Internet has been made against the background of European action to promote greater safety for minors using new technologies.
I too support the proposal by the rapporteur, whom I congratulate, for immediate approval of the programme, so that it can come into force from 1 January 2009.
It is very effective.
Davide is aimed at everyone who wishes to protect their computer against unsafe websites.
It is obvious that some people interpret this as an attempt to curtail the freedom of the Internet, but in my opinion, protecting the mental health and dignity of our children is a higher value.
Secondly, better traceability of the financial movements which are linked to child pornography, and thirdly, a properly advanced common kite safety mark, so that parents can know with confidence what is safe for their children to look at. - (SK) There are a couple of things I would like to say about the report.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I fully agree with everything that has been said in the House and I thank the parliamentarians not only for having this debate but also for taking this debate to their voters and to the people in the areas where they are active, because I believe that the basic problem is that adults do not know enough.
Children often know how to handle the new technologies very well, and it is the first time in the history of mankind that children know more than parents, educators and adults.
I am also grateful that, for instance, the mobile phone industry has signed a memorandum of understanding in order themselves to inform parents and to prevent harmful content from being on the 3G phones.
The network of hotlines, which we have established by our Safer Internet programme, is very important and it is working perfectly well in most Member States.
Here I have to tell you that it would be very good if the Convention on Cybercrime were ratified by all Member States.
But children are very capable of understanding what is positive content and what is non-positive content.
So I believe that with the Safer Internet programme we have to empower the children themselves, beyond empowering the parents and the educators.
I thank the rapporteur and all the parliamentarians who are helping to make the internet a safe place for our children.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) I welcome this initiative which focuses on educating both parents and children about the use of the Internet to ensure that the latter ultimately become less vulnerable to abuse online.
Additional efforts also need to be made with regard to verifying the age of the persons accessing sites containing pornographic material, as it is very easy for minors to access sites of this kind.
Establishing a multi-annual Community programme for protecting children using the Internet and other modern communication technologies is, in my view, of crucial importance and absolutely indispensable, since it is in our common social interest to use all available means to safeguard our children from harmful and dangerous content.
In the battle against harmful content, measures adopted by Member States are also of great importance, such as the creation of national contact points and their effective cooperation.
in writing. - (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt a new resolution on child protection.
I would like to congratulate my fellow Member Roberta Angelilli on her report on the protection of children using the Internet and other communication technologies, which draws attention to a rather serious and growing danger.
By means of the ever more widely accessible new technologies and computer skills, our children are increasingly exposed to the dangers of harassment, child pornography, bullying and incitement to racism.
I am confident that Parliament - in accordance with the intention of my fellow Member - will approve this proposal as soon as possible and that the new programme can get under way starting in January.
in writing. - (HU) According to Eurobarometer, 74% of 12 to 15-year-olds use the Internet on a daily basis, with many of them exposed to pornographic images.
According to the Internet Watch Foundation's survey, the incidence of Internet child abuse has risen by 16% in recent years.
in writing. - (RO) Nowadays the Internet offers a world full of information and entertainment, but also an environment which is extremely dangerous for children.
This is why I consider it absolutely necessary to launch the 'Safer Internet' programme in order to protect children who are using the Internet and new technologies.
The success of this programme will lie in the way that the EUR 55 million in funding are used, but it also depends on how successful we are at combining the technical and educational aspects.
Studies show that using a software application to filter the dangers which children are exposed to protects 90% of children, while parents and immediate guardians are responsible for protecting the remaining 10%.
The result is that children are currently at risk because of illegal content, and inappropriate behaviour such as child pornography, harassment, grooming, and seduction through the Internet.
According to the statistics, more than 70% of young people aged between 12 and 15 use the Internet for approximately three hours each day.
Sadly, most of these young people have viewed images of a pornographic nature.
This broadly based programme must involve children, their families, schools, communications operators, suppliers of Internet services and other institutions.
Especially in Member States like Estonia, where children increasingly use the Internet in everyday life.
in writing. - Mr President, the report of Roberta Angelilli is very much focused on pornography on the internet that is accessible for children, yet there is another matter of even graver concern.
Every human life must be treasured and when our youths need help or guidance, it should be provided.
According to data gathered in a campaign on children's use of the Internet, half of all Poles using the Internet have been the victims of insults, humiliation and threats on the Internet.
The situation is even more serious where children are concerned.
I therefore believe that the planned programme for the protection of children absolutely must be implemented.
in writing. - (RO) Children are increasingly using the Internet to communicate, find out information, access knowledge and spend their free time.
The programme for a safer Internet is continuing and enhances previous programmes: 'Safer Internet' and 'Safer Internet Plus'.
