Conclusions of the European Council meeting (28-29 October) and economic governance (debate) The next item is the key debate on the conclusions of the European Council meeting (28-29 October) and economic governance.
President of the European Council. - Mr President, the European Council meeting of 28/29 October focused on the economic governance of our Union, in particular with the report of the Task force on economic governance.
The report which it endorsed and the events since then, and I refer in particular to Ireland, have illustrated the importance of the subject in general and of the need for the rapidly deployable financial mechanism we decided on in May, in particular.
The Council - and it was the Council under the treaty - will decide on sanctions on the basis of a so-called 'reversed majority'.
The European Council also had a brief discussion on EU budgetary matters, stimulated, among other things, by the speech of your President at the opening of our meeting.
This is extremely useful for President Barroso and myself and ensures that on such occasions we are speaking not just for the Brussels institutions, but for the 27 as a whole.
The action intended is a further, crucial step to safeguard the financial stability of Ireland, the euro area, and the European Union as a whole.
The Task Force chaired by President Van Rompuy has presented its results, which are very positive.
I count on the Community method to work as well as it has always done, and help us strengthen economic governance in the euro area and in Europe.
The European Council, the G20 summit, the EU/US Summit in Lisbon last weekend: all are staging posts, part of our larger plan to restore Europe to stability and growth.
My point is this: the European Union will only be able to achieve its objectives if we activate all policy areas; if we capitalise on the relationship we have with all our key partners; if we use the leverage available to us in an integrated way at all levels - at national, European and global level.
This populist approach, which is corrupting our policy, is serious, and I should like to mention here that this is not the way to resolve the real and serious problems facing our countries and Europe in the world.
We must learn lessons, because the difficulties that that country is facing are due not only to the banks but also to the current government's fiscal and economic policy over the years.
The Irish Government has guaranteed the whole banking system, committing EUR 480 billion, or three times its GDP, which increases its public deficit to 32%.
We all know that, on all these issues, our countries alone will be unable to find a viable long-term solution to meet the expectations of the 500 million Europeans, who, as I said at the beginning, are expecting their politicians - that is to say all of us here and back home in our capitals - to make forward-looking decisions.
President of the Council, if the crisis has taught us anything, it is that yesterday's solutions are not necessarily those of tomorrow.
Mr President, I would like to add one last thing.
Mr President, firstly I believe that what has happened is very serious.
We in Parliament therefore have a special responsibility because we are joint decision makers in all these areas.
Rather, the problem is that, in this crisis, the European Council, and in particular the representatives of the large countries in the European Council, are no longer in a position to ensure that a positive spark from the Brussels meeting spreads out into society within the Member States of the European Union.
The second is that there has been no honest political statement about the fact that we are not rescuing all the Greeks or all the Irish people, we are rescuing the banks in each case, and that Ireland is not only an Irish crisis, it is also a German crisis and a British crisis, even if this is a message you may not necessarily want to hear.
We all know that.
It is one thing to talk now about tax dumping in Ireland.
I do not know whether we would be doing ourselves a favour if we now involve the creditors or whether it would not now be better in fact to say that we want this economic governance, we want strict regulation of the banking sector, we want the financial transaction tax or capital levies for those who are profiting from the crisis.
Firstly, how will the EU cope with the situation in Ireland and secondly, how to resolve the impasse of the EU budget.
During these times of strict public spending, and as we review rules on economic governance for Member States, we within the European Parliament need to respect the pressures that Member States are under and accept that all non-urgent projects of EU institutions should be deferred to allow the setting of an EU budget that reflects our troubled economic times. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) Mr President, does the speaker appreciate that the so-called EU funds which she referred to as having been received by her constituents are simply the UK's own money being returned, but being returned only in part and after the European Union has skimmed off its croupier's share?
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, if the Heads of State or Government have agreed to create a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area, I can only welcome that.
The attempt is being made to carry out as stringent a control on the budgets as possible in order to avoid long-term deficits, but the cautious recovery from the crisis will immediately be put at risk again by the radical cutting of public expenditure.
Well, that may be true in the case of Belgium - which has not had a government for six months - but for the rest of us, right across every Member State in this Union (and perhaps this is why we see the fear in the faces), people are increasingly saying: 'We don't want that flag, we don't want the anthem, we don't want this political class, we want the whole thing consigned to the dustbin of history'.
Strengthening the Stability and Growth Pact would inevitably lead to an increase in economic responsibility.
However, the current state of affairs proves that we must continue to make structural adjustments and that we really need to move towards economic governance.
Even if the euro lulled us to sleep quite a bit, President of the European Council, let us see the seriousness of this crisis as a wake-up call to make full use of our European strength in future.
I find it extremely puzzling, therefore, that they come together every three months or so and waste a tremendous amount of time and money to decide very little in the face of a crisis which is doubly underlined by what has just happened in Ireland.
We are talking here about a debt crisis in our Member States.
Mr Van Rompuy, the automatic nature of the sanctions during the preventive phase was sacrificed in Deauville.
That is why the European Semester is so important, and that is why it must be implemented. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr Graf Lambsdorff, you are, of course, a member of the Federal Executive Committee of the Free Democratic Party.
So it is time to say bye-bye euro, bye-bye euro. (DE) Mr President, I have heard a lot of criticism of the Deauville decision here, but everyone knows that, at the start of the last meeting of your Task Force, Mr Van Rompuy there were still 20 items outstanding.
Everyone also knows that the two largest Member States, Germany and France, are the ones who sinned against the Stability and Growth Pact in 2004, although at that time, as we also know, there was a Social Democrat/Green federal government in Germany.
In my opinion, the treaty was stretched to its limits on 9 May.
Lastly, we Europeans need a clear European vision in this time of crisis.
The Commission and the new President must uphold this agenda.
This is what we need to show the European public. (PL) Mr President, the crisis in the euro area is a fact.
What helps here is that over the last two years the Commission has acquired substantial and in-depth knowledge and understanding of the 27 economies, so I would like to ask for two actions now.
