It took until 2 February for the European Parliament to adopt a resolution on Tunisia, and it is only now, at this part-session, that we have adopted one on Egypt.
Today, protest movements are being formed, as we speak, in Iran, in Libya, with regard to which you have just given your support - your conditional support, but your support nonetheless - to a partnership agreement, and also in Bahrain and in Yemen, to mention only those that we know the most about.
Yes, that is right, in Yemen, where President Ali Abdullah Saleh has been in power for no fewer than 33 years.
Of course, it is much better than the situation in Libya, since Mr Gaddafi has been in power for 42 years!
We were among the few who said that we could not vote today on a resolution on Yemen without taking account of what was happening in that country.
Right now, students in Saada are barricaded inside their campus, where they are still surrounded by the police, and we remain silent.
I am by no means suggesting that the abolition of the death penalty should be abandoned - I have always been a staunch supporter of its abolition, and I believe that any supposedly democratic country that is incapable of abolishing such a punishment is criminal and should not lecture others on democracy and human rights, even if it is the world's leading power.
The bottom line is that the use of the death penalty for crimes committed by an offender under the age of 18 even violates Yemeni legislation, although the authorities in this country continue to carry out such executions.
author. - Mr President, the topic of the urgent resolution is important in itself.
This therefore violates the fundamental right to life, as well as the international conventions which Yemen is party to and, last but not least, even the penal code in this country, which explicitly forbids the use of capital punishment against juvenile offenders.
The Yemeni authorities are violating human rights.
Therefore, we have considerable leverage here in the EU over President Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Mr President, the use of capital punishment on juveniles under the age of 15 was prohibited in Yemen in 1991.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the death penalty is still in use in 58 countries and one of these countries is Yemen.
My Group condemns the death penalty in general and the planned execution of Muhammed Taher Thabet Samoum in particular.
Both of the cases of condemned juvenile offenders are subject to the regime of these documents, and it should therefore not be possible for a judicial body in Yemen to issue a legal decision denying the rights and protection arising from these documents.
The European Union must consider, similarly to the world's other democratic countries such as the United States of America, the option of the death penalty for certain exceptionally serious crimes proven beyond doubt. (FI) Mr President, the Samoum case is not a oneoff event in Yemen: at least eight other juvenile offenders are in custody awaiting a death sentence.
The execution of juvenile offenders is, furthermore, forbidden in Yemen's own penal code.
The government is violating both the international treaties on this matter and the penal code which prohibits the use of the death penalty for juveniles.
I appeal to the EU's High Representative to halt the succession of these bloody executions. (RO) Mr President, Thabet Samoum and Fuad Ahmed Ali Abdulla were probably minors, as they maintain, when they committed the offences for which they were sentenced to death.
In addition, neither offender can prove that they were under the age of 18 because they do not have birth certificates.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the European Union, in implementing its well-established Death Penalty Guidelines, has long been active in fighting the death penalty in Yemen, both generally and by targeting individual cases.
The capital punishment of juvenile offenders has always taken place in Yemen.
The two most recent cases were in December 2010 for Fuad Ahmed Ali Abdulla, and in January 2011 for Muhammed Taher Thabet Samoum.
The case of Muhammed Taher Thabet Samoum is not the only one.
