Long-term plan for the anchovy stock in the Bay of Biscay and the fisheries exploiting that stock - Multiannual plan for the western stock of Atlantic horse mackerel and the fisheries exploiting that stock - Prohibition of highgrading and restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot in the Baltic Sea, the Belts and the Sound - Use of alien and locally absent species in aquaculture (debate) Τhe next item is the joint debate on the following reports: the report by Izaskun Bilbao Barandica, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a long-term plan for the anchovy stock in the Bay of Biscay and the fisheries exploiting that stock - C7-0157/2009 -, the report by Pat the Cope Gallagher, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a multiannual plan for the western stock of Atlantic horse mackerel and the fisheries exploiting that stock - C7-0010/2009 -, the report by Marek Józef Gróbarczyk, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2187/2005 as regards the prohibition of highgrading and restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot in the Baltic Sea, the Belts and the Sound - C7-0156/2010 -, and the report by João Ferreira, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 708/2007 concerning the use of alien and locally absent species in aquaculture -.
Having achieved a high level of consensus and being conscious of the impending entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the uncertainty surrounding how it should be applied to cases that were already open, on 30 November, we held an indicative vote in the Committee on Fisheries.
I would also like to thank the Commission and the Council for their help and support.
The proposal is based on the implementation plan agreed by the European Commission and the UN world summit on sustainable development in 2002.
The plan was expected to come into operation in late 2009 but was delayed due to the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty.
I would like to discuss the amendments proposed by the PPE, the S&amp;D and the GUE/NGL political groups in relation to Area 8C - in other words, the Bay of Biscay.
Those who wish to support this will be doing so for their own personal reasons and for the reasons of their Member States, but this is a common fisheries policy and we must adhere to this.
I appreciate that our Spanish and Portuguese colleagues may have concerns, and I have included those concerns in Amendment 7 in the draft report.
The report, which aims to regulate fishing of flatfish in the Baltic Sea and to stop the practice of discarding while maintaining the model of fisheries management known as total allowable catch (TAC), indicates that this system is functioning properly and has a practical application for certain species of fish.
The action plan adopted on the basis of my report must eliminate discards in the Baltic Sea, for example, by the introduction, where appropriate, of a complete ban on discards in the Baltic Sea fishery.
This must result in sustainable and more efficient management of marine resources.
Bringing in a complete ban on discards in the case of flounder or other flatfish is not justified, as this will have a negative impact on their stocks.
The Commission's proposed amendment to the regulation concerning the use of alien and locally absent species in aquaculture is based on the results of a research project, the IMPASSE project, which has brought together various European institutions in a concerted action focusing on the environmental impacts of alien species in aquaculture.
It is necessary to explore the potential of aquaculture, but there is also a need to overcome its limitations in an environmentally sustainable way.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the long-term anchovy plan, but I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Bilbao, and all the members of the Committee on Fisheries, for their work on this proposal.
I would like to say to Mrs Bilbao that there was indeed a delay in adopting this proposal, but I would like to say that it was clear enough that the Commission has done absolutely everything to unblock the situation.
The anchovy stock in the Bay of Biscay was threatened with collapse and the fishery was therefore closed in 2005.
This allowed me to propose a TAC of over 15 000 tonnes, which is in force now.
I would like to thank the Committee on Fisheries for its support both on the substance and in relation to the delegation of powers to the Commission.
I can also support those amendments related to the alignment of the proposal with the new control regulation, in force since January 2010.
This amendment changes the four-hour rule which is in the new control regulation.
You know that this new control regulation has been in force since the beginning of this year.
We really do not need to change this control regulation so soon but, of course, it is for you to decide.
Western horse mackerel is by far the most important of the three horse mackerel stocks in EU waters.
The stock is currently stable at a good level, which means the TAC for 2011 is almost unchanged.
The annual TAC decision on this stock, which is based on recent scientific advice, does not correspond to our objective of having binding, predictable long-term management.
Your general support, both on the substance and on the delegation of powers, shows that we have the same goal.
There is one amendment, however, that does not go in the right direction, namely, your acceptance of the Council Presidency's compromise of around 5 000 tonnes.
With this proposal, we are ensuring legal continuity in respect of our policy on high grading, which was introduced in the Baltic Sea last year, as well as on fishing restrictions for some species.
The Committee on Fisheries tabled amendments aiming to bring the basic regulation into line with the new comitology provisions of the Lisbon Treaty.
To conclude, I would like once again to thank all the rapporteurs in the Committee on Fisheries for their reports and for their work on these relevant issues.
After more than a year of negotiations with the Council, Parliament has quite responsibly decided to bring the reports to first reading with the aim of exerting pressure to break the current deadlock, which affects not only these two proposals but also all the others that are to be put before us in the near future.
It is only on the basis of scientific data that we can establish the surpluses in our seas and what we can fish without having an irreversible impact both on marine life and on fisheries.
We have before us the revised common fisheries policy.
What we are asking in these reports is that you act boldly when revising the common fisheries policy, by ensuring that decisions taken to safeguard a viable future for our seas and fisheries are taken on the basis of scientific data.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate on the report on anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay and our group's view on this matter.
It is the only long-term and sustainable way to do it, which was also our group's view on this matter.
This is also the way that our group believes we should handle this type of question, both today and in the future.
I think that, in the main, we have coped well with the challenge, but it has not been without its false alarms.
Despite the fact that anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay collapsed as recently as 2005 and the fisheries industry had to stop fishing completely, there are still short-sighted financial incentives that jeopardise the long-term sustainability of the stocks.
Thus joked the world-leading marine biologist Willy Kristensen in the film 'The End of the Line' on the depletion of fish stocks in the world's oceans.
This is important to remember now that the EU and the world have decided to achieve the maximum sustainable yield (MSY) in respect of all commercial fish species in approximately five years.
I would like to point out that it is an utterly impossible task to achieve the MSY for all fish species everywhere at the same time.
Speculation must be ended completely. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Gallagher report and, in particular, the multiannual plan for the stock of Atlantic horse mackerel, it is vital to advocate the amendment proposed by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which was drawn up by Mrs Patrão Neves, focusing on the three objectives of the Green Paper and the reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP): the environmental objective, which is well respected in this report, and the economic and social objectives, whether they focus on economic viability or a decent living for professionals.
I believe it is important that we make this message clear and I think that this is a good opportunity to do things properly. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my contribution concerns the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the prohibition of highgrading and restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot in the Baltic Sea, the Belts and the Sound.
What we are concerned with here is not simply the amendment of a regulation, but two very important and excellent species of food fish that we urgently need in Europe for our internal market.
It is essential that Article 15a is included in the regulation.
We want to serve the market, which is why we have amended this regulation in this way. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Damanaki, I am very pleased that this week, we are able to adopt four important regulations on fisheries policy, and that we have been able to reach agreement among ourselves as well as with the Council and Commission on the reports concerning aquaculture and technical measures in the Baltic Sea.
Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the two regulations on long-term management plans.
There is a growing awareness in Scotland that discards are a direct result of EU regulation and, in particular, the cod recovery plan.
I hope the Commissioner will take note of this and take action to deal with that part of the discard scandal, which could be avoided by changing some of the unworkable regulations which currently apply. (ES) Mr President, in my speech, I am going to focus on two reports whose procedure and final results are an example of what to do and what not to do.
Regarding anchovies, an example of how not to do things, the subject has been under discussion for more than one year and, unfortunately, it has become a debate on the powers that the Treaty of Lisbon grants to Parliament and on the legal basis for the Commission proposal, rather than a debate on what is better for fishermen, industries and fisheries.
This focus could be extended to the rest of EU waters and form part of the no-discards policy of the upcoming reform of the common fisheries policy.
I would like to say how pleased I am to see Parliament conclude its first reading on the two long-term plans for anchovies and horse mackerel.
The system for controlling vessels absolutely must be the same in the various Member States exploiting this stock.
This plan comes up with a new decision-making method concerning the total allowable catch that will make it possible to ensure the sustainability of the stock in the long term.
I hope that the European Commission will support the sector, which is introducing selective gear and ensuring economically and environmentally sustainable fishing. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one minute is not long enough to cover four reports.
We must not have preconceived ideas when looking for ways to improve fish farming standards, but we must be rigorous in the control and application of regulations which are as precise as possible, in order to avoid the risk of altering the environmental balance.
I am very pleased that it was possible to include a very significant point in the report, calling on the Commission to prepare a comprehensive management plan for flounder in the waters of the Baltic Sea.
I would like to take the opportunity to bring to the Commissioner's attention the fact that the Polish authorities have been proposing the adoption of a comprehensive management system for flatfish stocks in the Baltic for many years, and have not obtained any tangible results from the European Commission.
This can be a win-win situation.
Quotas of all kinds - and in whichever seas - should be owned by fishermen from ports with traditional connections to those waters and be tradeable only between fishermen who are likewise entitled to fish by personal, family and community connections. (GA) Mr President, I am no authority on this matter, but since I come from an island nation, I know that fishing is very important for coastal communities throughout Ireland.
The fishing industry has been devastated, with over 97 000 jobs lost since 1973 in fishing and dependent industries.
Over 880 000 dead fish are dumped into the North Sea every year.
The solution for Britain is, of course, to leave the European Union, regain control of our territorial waters and restore sanity to a revitalised national fishing industry. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay ceased in 2005 due to the poor state of stocks.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank all the honourable Members of Parliament for their contributions.
I would like to say in a very clear way that the Commission understands and supports the idea that Parliament has to have a say in terms of the harvest: the role of the long management plan.
This is our position but, as you know, there is a reaction in the Council.
Some Member States have reacted in a very strong way, but also there is a general reaction to this approach.
We have to find a solution here, because otherwise we cannot go on to enforce long management plans and, as you will understand, long management plans are our future.
So we have to find a solution to unblock the situation.
I am going to propose to Parliament and the Council that we all sit together in order to find at least a compromise solution, which we need as soon as possible because we cannot go on in this way.
My idea - and this will be one of the main themes of our fisheries policy reform - is to continue heeding scientific advice and also try to find a solution in case that advice is not clear enough and we do not have enough data to form a clear opinion.
Perhaps it was a solution when we had plenty of fish in our waters, but now we have real problems.
So we have to find a solution here, and I very much welcome proposals such as compensating fishermen for the cost of the catch in the case of by-catches.
We can find solutions, but what we have to do through our policy reform is move towards a target of eliminating discards.
What I can say is that we are trying to achieve this as part of our CFP reform.
Mr President, Commissioner, first, I would have appreciated a clear answer from you as to whether it is your intention to give in to the Council's wishes, acknowledging - which I am grateful for - the problems regarding acceptance of the powers that the Treaty of Lisbon gives to Parliament.
The sector needs a plan.
I also understand that the 27 Ministers have yet to discuss this dossier in full, and this issue in particular.
I would like to say to those in the S&amp;D Group that there is absolutely no ambiguity about my position in relation to your amendment.
This is what will determine the success of the future common fisheries policy in practice.
The purpose of this amendment, which the rapporteur's Amendment 7 does not completely ensure, is to clarify the specific nature of the different fleets and make clear that these specific points and the ultimate destination of the fish should be taken into account when defining the total allowable catches (TACs).
The vote will take place tomorrow (Tuesday, 23 November 2010).
The Baltic Sea has the status of a 'particularly sensitive sea area', and is one of the most valuable, but also one of the most sensitive, marine ecosystems on our planet.
The European Parliament should make a point of including this in the proposed reform of the common fisheries policy in 2011, which I will be urgently promoting.
