Parliament's position on the 2011 draft budget as modified by the Council - all sections - Draft amending budget No 3/2010: Section III - Commission - BAM (Banana Accompanying Measures) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mrs Jędrzejewska and Mrs Trüpel, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2011 - all sections and Letters of amendment Nos 1/2011, 2/2011 and 3/2011 to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2011 (12699/2010 - C7-0202/2010 -; and the report by Mr Surján, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the Council's position on draft amending budget No 3/2010 of the European Union for the financial year 2010, Section III - Commission - BAM (Banana Accompanying Measures) (13472/2010 - C7-0263/2010 -.
Meanwhile, much has happened in the European Union, for we have adopted the Treaty of Lisbon, which imposes or assigns new fields of competence to the European Union.
It is somewhat true to say that the European Union has new ambitions and new plans but does not necessarily have the new financial resources needed to put these plans and ambitions into effect.
I would like, briefly, to present what happened in the Committee on Budgets during our reading.
As a reminder: the new Treaty of Lisbon also introduces a new budgetary procedure.
It is important to emphasise that what the Committee on Budgets has drafted is a position which respects the multiannual financial framework.
This position is innovative, but is equally a position which includes and takes into account the concerns and the situation in which the Council finds itself.
The situation where, in Council, seven Member States rejected the Council's position has not escaped Parliament's notice.
I would very much like this reading of Parliament to be seen as disciplined, but also as a reading which enables the financing of the European Union's commitments for 2011.
Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard the rapporteur for the Commission's budget talk about the major challenges that we face.
That is exactly what I have tried to do as rapporteur for Parliament's budget, namely, to find a genuinely fair balance between the new competences, and thus our new work requirements and requirements for additional staff, and the need to send out a signal to the citizens of the European Union and to the governments that we also want to practice self-restraint and self-discipline.
We have now taken the decisions in the Committee on Budgets concerning appropriations, which, at an amount in the region of EUR 25 million, is below that originally proposed by the Bureau.
What we have done in this regard is to take a responsible position so that we have not only made more staff and resources available to ourselves, but that we have also, in a very targeted way, granted the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee a certain increase in funds, albeit not everything they asked for, because, of course, they too have greater labour requirements on account of additional competences resulting from the Treaty of Lisbon.
Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my task is to settle a 2010 budgetary item, in so far as possible, and assess a motion for amendment, an amended budget.
This issue involves a promise made by the Commission some years ago to provide reasonable compensation for banana producing countries, and we must keep this promise.
Unfortunately it has not been possible to reach anything close to an agreement, even though a compromise is definitely needed, because these payments would be made to countries in situations which, in all fairness, clearly need this compensation.
Let me combine these two speeches and say that I would like to pay tribute to the Commission, as it has done all that it could, in full compliance with the rules and upper limits specified in the 2011 budget.
In our view, it will be impossible to function like this.
We also welcome the amendments by Parliamentary committees in this respect.
The line taken by Parliament, as indicated by rapporteur Jędrzejewska, is very clear.
This is on horizontal amendments and political priorities placed in the forecast in heading 3b on youth and youth mobility.
We will send our letter of executability on both these amendments and also on the pilot projects and parliamentary preparatory actions that were voted in parliamentary committee.
This is about banana accompanying measures and so far, the Parliament rapporteur has reconfirmed the position of Parliament which is very distant from the position of the Council.
I must, first of all, stress that this budgetary procedure is taking place at a time when we are emerging from an economic crisis, and, even if the European budget can and must help in emerging from this crisis, we must not lose sight of the considerable budgetary restraints that affect our national budgets.
On the other hand, we are obviously much more concerned that the European Parliament amendments would considerably reduce some margins.
The level of payment appropriations must be sufficient but without being overestimated and must take into account past implementation and real needs for 2011.
I would remind you also that within the Council, because of these difficulties, it was possible to strike a balance by a very narrow majority only on a rate of increase of payment appropriations of 2.91% compared with 2010.
The Council has taken note, however, of the European Parliament's priorities on youth, education and mobility and may consider these priorities in the context of a global agreement.
If the European Parliament's amendments restore the draft budget and thereby increase the appropriations, this could give rise to issues about absorption of these various appropriations.
Indeed, I would like to point out that the Council has accepted an increase of 14% in the payment appropriations, following careful consideration of the Commission's proposals and taking into account the implementation rate of appropriations for 2010, as that is the best basis.
I would like to raise one last point concerning the European Parliament's intention to create eight new budget lines without any appropriations in relation to, on the one hand, expenditure in connection with implementing the Treaty of Lisbon and, on the other, revenue in connection with its own resources.
I think that the 2011 budget is not the place to translate into a budgetary instrument the conclusions of those important debates and difficult decisions that will have to be made for the future financing of the European Union when the next multiannual financial framework is negotiated.
It is a long and complex debate and a solution cannot be found within the next few weeks in the relatively restricted context of the 2011 budgetary procedure.
In particular, ITER is at stake, as well as completion of the process of adopting the rules for administering the multiannual financial framework under the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, and on these two issues, we must reach an agreement.
The Commission made proposals that were broadly accepted by the Council.
With regard to other issues, such as that of taking the opportunity of this adaptation to increase noticeably the budget resources of the multiannual framework to take into account the new allocations resulting from the treaty, realistically, I have to say to you that this will not be possible beyond the Member States' current financing level.
The need to emerge from the crisis and national budgetary policies, which, to a large extent, are influenced and controlled by the European Union, do not allow it.
Then, of course, there will come the time to answer these questions and to take decisions.
Since these are complex issues that will require substantial mechanisms and resources, we know that the answers will not come within the context of the 2011 budget discussion, but will come in the debate on the next multiannual framework.
I would just like to end by pointing out how important it is to reach an agreement on the 2011 budget within the next few weeks.
To that end, the Presidency will continue to make an active contribution to the excellent climate of cooperation that has prevailed hitherto, and I think that for European citizens, it would be particularly damaging to the European Union's image not to be able to reach an agreement on this first budget to be put to the vote in the era of the new Treaty of Lisbon.
Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks for the work done by the general rapporteur on the budget.
Although, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have exercised moderation and we are aware that the appropriations under heading 4 are increasing substantially above the average, we consider them to be insufficient for guaranteeing a consistent, visible and effective foreign policy that is in line with the ambitions introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets, represented here by its Chair, for putting the appropriations for the new positions in the European External Action Service in reserve.
Mr President, funds that have been made available for development cooperation must actually serve development purposes, so that we can help cushion the blows to poor countries from the financial and economic crisis for which they were not to blame.
At present, fewer than half of the Member States submit these reports, and the reports which are submitted are prepared using very different methodologies.
Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety regarding the budget, I will not be telling anyone here present anything new.
Nevertheless, I would like to point out once again that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety is responsible for less than 1% of the budget as a whole, less than 1% of all environmental protection actions, biodiversity actions and actions in the fight against climate change.
However, in times of crisis, money is, of course, needed for consumer protection, customs, training customs officers, etc.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her diligent work on the budget for 2011.
The Council have used creative accounting to find EUR 420 million.
If we do not get our amendment through, we will face a huge problem next year in the budget and there will be cuts across all of the budget lines in agriculture.
Mr President, as budget rapporteur for the Committee on Culture and Education, I am proud to be able to say that we in Parliament have managed to do what the Commission has not been able to do and what the Council did not want to do, namely, to take note of the obligations in the new Europe 2020 strategy and follow that up with financial support for achieving the goals set in the strategy.
We would therefore also like to see the Council support the position on the 2011 budget that we in Parliament are expecting to adopt tomorrow.
Secondly, we have asked for the appropriations in reserve to be released and for the proposed increase to be made available to Europol.
Finally, we have also re-established the budget planned for the agency Eurojust, whose functions have recently been expanded, as it is an essential instrument for developing judicial cooperation in Europe.
I think that the proposal on the 2011 budget, which we will vote on tomorrow, maintains a perfect balance between budget saving and economic stimulation and satisfies the European Parliament priorities that have been raised repeatedly.
I understand Member States' aim to cut costs by trying to reduce their budget deficit as much as possible, but many of the cuts proposed by the Council are unfounded.
Energy, innovations, scientific research, education and mobility are the foundations for our economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
Therefore, we must not only ensure the continuity of effective programmes already in existence, but also suitable financing for new policy areas included in the Treaty of Lisbon.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - Mr President, the Lisbon Treaty has given the European Parliament new powers in the field of international trade agreements and the Committee on International Trade intends to put these new powers to good use.
We want us to enhance our action, at least symbolically, by supporting new pilot projects, in particular, concerning industrial and cultural tourism.
Mr President, thank you for the floor.
Therefore, in the opinion of our Committee, in chapter 1B of the 2011 budget, we have to return to the proposals of the Commission, I mean the European Commission, as they are based on Member State forecasts.
That is a good question, Mr Rübig.
I like the way that the European Commission has drawn up the 2011 budget, but there is room for improvement.
We would, incidentally, like to ask the representative of the Council whether or not he heard Commissioner Lewandowski talking about the need for payment appropriations.
I would like to say a big thank you to the rapporteur, Mrs Jędrzejewska.
She has done an excellent job and, in the main, we are, in fact, in agreement in the Committee on Budgets, even though there are some areas - and I will come back to this - where we in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament have a slightly different view.
This is very modest.
We are therefore fighting for an increase, especially in category 1a, which includes investments, research and development and labour market initiatives.
We are in favour of this project, but it must not be the only priority when it comes to research and development.
The EU will have a number of new tasks in relation to the External Action Service, new financial institutions, energy and the climate.
Finally, I would like to mention the foreign policy budget, which is clearly underfunded.
Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, the axe of cutbacks is swinging through the public budgets in most of the Member States.
That is the common theme set out in Parliament's proposal for next year's budget.
We have kept below the ceilings set in the multiannual financial framework, but this will only be possible by making cuts in definite priorities and in international commitments.
In specific terms, we have had to make cuts in appropriations for the ITER Fusion project, in the common foreign and security policy, and in aid for banana-producing countries and cooperation with newly industrialised nations.
I think this reflects the fact that the multiannual financial framework is too restrictive, and I would like once again today to express my regret that the Commission has not, as promised, provided a genuine mid-term review of the framework.
The Commission has just given us a communication on the budget review in which it sets out the lines for several years to come, but it does not explain how we will be able to make ends meet in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
On behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I would like to thank Mrs Jędrzejewska for her expert management of the vote on the budget.
We would have liked to have seen a few different figures in parts of the agriculture budget.
There are also a few places in Parliament's budget where we would also have liked to have seen savings, but, all in all, we are happy with what we have in front of us now, and I look forward to constructive negotiations with the Council.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, I, too, should like to commend the rapporteurs and, in particular, Mrs Jędrzejewska and Mrs Trüpel.
In any case, an excellent job has been done - thank you.
We have benefited from the fact that the group chairs wish to table with us an ambitious budget and, above all, to forge a link with the follow-up, with what will come afterwards, in the Special Committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013 (SURE), and in the context of the forthcoming budgetary perspective, because, clearly, the 2011 budget is one thing, but what comes afterwards is far more significant.
While we will support the resolution tomorrow, I think there are some inconsistencies in this budget, and I would like to highlight what I consider to be two of the main ones.
It was from this point of view that, in order to formalise our intentions, we tabled an amendment specifically to ensure that sustainable development criteria are taken out of the LIFE programme but included in all the other areas.
ITER's budget has been reduced by 45 million.
We cannot say honestly that we want more Europe but that we do not want to pay for more Europe.
I would like to raise yet another matter, as a representative of Poland and as a representative of Central and Eastern Europe: all funds which go towards the development of our region, which is a huge consumer of goods developed and produced in Western Europe, and all money invested in the new countries of Europe, is money invested in the future of Europe.
Mr President, I would like to be completely frank in this debate.
The view of the governments is very simple: they are all submitting to the new Brussels Consensus.
At a national level, budgets are subject to a single watchword: austerity.
I would like to say to the Council that the crisis is not over yet, but in the meantime, social measures are indeed all being withdrawn at a national level.
The crisis is not over, but our national budgets all point to salaries being frozen or reduced, reductions in pensions and increases in the most unfair tax of all: VAT.
Their proposal is EUR 3 billion less than the one that we are here to discuss today.
However, we should be aware that the proposal that we are here to discuss is also a timid one that lacks any courage.
In reality, what we needed was a European budget that could compensate for policies at national level, with clear investment aimed at job creation.
Such is the case with the EUR 350 million in funding proposed for the Institution of Nuclear Fusion, an investment which is seriously dubious in the current climate.
At national level, budgetary discipline is based on stupid penalties like those that the Franco-German communiqué is attempting to state and ratify today.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, this Parliament has joined the European Commission in demanding an increase of almost 6% for the 2011 budget at a time when national governments are proposing significant cuts to their own budgets.
This is simply unacceptable for the British people. (Applause from the EFD Group) (NL) Mr President, when I hear the remarks on the 2011 budget by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament in particular, the humiliating feeling comes over me that I do not want to be part of this European Parliament.
Whilst Commissioner Barroso is calling on Member States to economise, his Commission and the European Parliament are increasing the budget for 2011.
The new government in the Netherlands has indeed made reducing the contribution to the European Union a priority, and I am both delighted about and grateful for this.
In addition, we shall certainly be providing input to the discussion on this House's multiannual financial framework.
Therefore, you can be assured that we shall be very critical of further increases in the budgets for 2011 and subsequent years. (PT) Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 budget which Parliament is proposing is ambitious, intelligent and respects the commitments which it has taken on in a rigorous and realistic way.
This budget also clearly demonstrates the need to revise the multiannual financial framework, given the tight margins for its items, and particularly for items 1A, 3B and 4.
Every budget is difficult, but against the backdrop of cuts in Member States, perhaps this budget is more difficult than normal.
Indeed, the coalition government in the UK will tomorrow announce savage cuts of around GBP 83 billion which will affect every single person in the UK.
We all, however, know we have to be careful with EU spending and therefore we need to make sure that the EU spends its money wisely.
We also need to ensure that the EU and the European Parliament are able to carry out their responsibilities and that we are able to fund our priorities - priorities such as the Structural Funds and research and development which benefit individuals, communities and SMEs right across the EU.
Whilst Member States want to cut their way out of the crisis, we believe we can help create a different strategy: a strategy based on growing our way out of difficulties such as debt, deficit and growing unemployment.
Because we need to find funding for these priorities, we need, of course, to monitor unnecessary spending and administration costs.
Let us remember that some of the extra expenditure the EU now has is the result of decisions supported by Member States, such as the External Action Service and the creation of three new financial governance agencies.
The rapporteur has already given some examples of areas in which we have made efforts to make savings in Parliament's budget.
I am sure every Member would want to ensure that the EU adds value to Member State spending, as well as to individuals and communities.
We should probably look at our own costs and refrain from increasing them during difficult economic times.
With regard to the draft budget in general, I would like to express my criticism of the Council.
Thus, the Council's priorities for the 2011 budget seem to be somewhat illogical.
Finally, with regard to the debate about own resources, there are many of us in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe who very much welcome this debate.
It is good that we can now discuss other models for safeguarding the future EU budget. (FR) Mr President, the 2011 budget is the first Union budget under the new provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The vote in favour of the 2011 budget is, as far as we are concerned, a first step.
Secondly, we must initiate a discussion, and consequently establish a balance of power, for our resources to be increased on the occasion of the forthcoming multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020.
Now it is time to rethink and restructure fiscality, not only at the national level, but also at the European one.
The 2011 EU budget shows some signs of austerity but does not go far enough in structural change.
Moreover, they demand additional funds because the Lisbon Treaty and the Europe 2020 strategy imposed new mandates on the Community.
The ECR agrees with the priorities of the 2011 budget as stated by the rapporteur - youth, education and mobility - but, if we take these goals seriously, it logically follows that what our young people need is definitely not a greater fiscal burden in the age of adverse demographics, but more solidarity and investment in our common future. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, this budget, just like the others, is determined by the limits of an extremely tight multiannual financial framework which, in practice, derails any possible economic and social cohesion.
However, the proposed budget again falls short of the amount agreed in the multiannual financial framework.
The European Parliament, on the other hand, is opting to increase the European Union budget for 2011.
In addition, Parliament has been expressing its wish for the European Union to be more independent in the collection of its own resources.
However, an EU tax would be undesirable.
If a tax on banks were to be introduced, the proceeds would have to go towards paying off the high levels of public debt in Member States.
After all, it is they who have had to spend large amounts of money on bailing out the banks. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the EU budget for 2011 represents a challenge for everyone: Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
First of all, I would point out that the EU budget currently amounts to a little over 1% of GNI.
Erasmus not only facilitates the acquisition of languages, but also mobility - which is essential in an age of globalisation.
Secondly, the main goal of the common agricultural policy must continue to be to maintain market stability and food security.
Last but not least, my third point is that money is tight in these difficult economic times.
In a context such as this, we cannot ask Member States to increase their taxes or their debt to fund a significant increase in the European budget.
Similarly, where the Council has reached a symbolic increase of 0.2% of commitment appropriations, the Committee on Budgets proposes 0.8% in current euros, that is, a reduction in volume.
In return, the European Parliament expects a similar sense of responsibility on the part of the Council.
The ambitious Europe 2020 programme was adopted unanimously last July by the European Council.
Parliament called for this reform three years ago.
We need an agreement on the procedure and a timetable within this global agreement which, like the Council, we are advocating passionately. (BG) As my fellow Members have already mentioned, the European Union's 2011 budget is being approved using a new procedure on which the European Parliament and Council must find a common consensus.
The European Parliament fully recognises this particular point.
During the discussions in the Committee on Budgets, we adopted a very responsible attitude and we did not do what is the most normal thing for every single member of every parliament to do, which is to ask for more resources, as we then come into conflict with the representatives of the executive.
A reduction in resources means a reduction in political ambitions.
The European budget provides added value to taxpayers.
It achieves much more than can be achieved with the same resources if they are spent by 27 Member States.
A direct connection cannot be made between European and national budgets.
The current reduction in expenditure in national budgets is a consequence of their increase last year.
This did not happen with the European budget, which is much more stable. (DE) Madam President, I would like, in particular, to thank the two rapporteurs.
There is no point in us financing sacred cows such as the agricultural budget and structural and cohesion policy if we do not, at the same time, reform and modernise them.
With regard to the subject of discipline, allow me to return once again to the agreement reached in Deauville, because discipline is something that we must also expect from the Member States.
Furthermore, we have tabled amendments to the budget resolution where we want clarification in three specific areas: on the costs, for example, of Parliament's external offices in the Member States; disquiet about non-governmental organisations' funding, on which we would like a report from the European Commission; and last, but not least, the generous pension arrangements in the Staff Regulations, including those for retiring Commissioners.
We should be calling for a net cap on our contribution until we have a fair system for the EU budget. (EL) Madam President, we know that the EU budget is the main tool used to implement political orientations and priorities.
We also know that the nature of the budget is dictated in essence by the financial framework 2007-2013.
Each Fleming makes a net contribution of approximately EUR 290 per annum to safeguard the functioning of the European institutions.
Therefore, I consider it particularly unacceptable that, as early as the first paragraphs, the present report wags a finger at people who dare to ask questions - justified questions - about the magnitude of the European Union's contribution and about the benefit of much of the European Union's expenditure.
All the EU Member States face having to make huge fiscal efforts and economies.
We might expect much greater efforts on the part of the European Union, but evidently we consider ourselves a cut above the riffraff.
We are debating the 2011 budget at a time when we are consolidating public budgets.
We need more flexibility on the basis of points 21 and 23 of the IIA.
I have a final and very important comment to make to the Council.
However, we want a reliable multiannual solution for ITER, but you should not complain about current cuts while the management structures of ITER are poor.
That is why we are arguing over a few hundred million euro: because of their lack of ambition in 2005 and because we are in a period of crisis.
I think that is quite acceptable. (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, while this budget has been going through the process of being drafted, we have heard from several quarters that the European Union should be tightening its belt in view of the current economic maelstrom.
In my view, the 2011 budget, which is being put to the vote tomorrow, shows that the Committee on Budgets thinks it important that we also try in future to create growth via the regions.
I would hope that the Council also appreciates the importance of regional policy and its strong link to the Europe 2020 strategy. (CS) I would like to make three comments on the preparation of the European budget for next year.
First, the European Parliament must take into account the real economic situation in the Member States - the fact that, in most states of the European Union, the economy is either declining or stagnating, and that in only a few countries is it growing.
We must bear this fact in mind, and we therefore cannot ask for an increase in European spending in a situation where resources are scarce.
Second, the European Parliament must continue the tradition of balanced management of European budgets.
The certainty of the approved budget is important for economic stability in Europe, and we should be able to support it in this way. (IT) Madam President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank Mrs Jędrzejewska and the other Members for the excellent work they have done in recent months, which has made it possible to define a position on the 2011 budget - first, the Commission's budget and, tomorrow, Parliament's.
I therefore believe that the European budget should remain large enough to achieve results that could not be accomplished by means of any other spending at national or local level.
That is even more important at a time of crisis like now, when the Member States are committed to the difficult task of keeping spending under control and balancing their own budgets, and when the Committee on Budgets has given ample proof of its careful and responsible policy by keeping within the limits of the multiannual financial framework for the first time in 20 years.
Parliament has decided to follow the Commission's initial position in many respects, while also providing for a number of increases to finance its own priorities proposed since March 2010, such as youth, mobility, research and innovation.
It has therefore eliminated the cuts proposed by the Council, which were often applied indiscriminately and even in key budget lines, as in the case of the accounting clearance under heading 2, revealing a lack of clear, reasoned political decision making underpinning the proposal.
Regarding Chapter 1a and Chapter 5 on R&amp;D management, we all think that it is just not acceptable to have the cut Council introduced compared to the Commission draft proposal.
Cuts are simply not acceptable in the fields of economic recovery and economic stimulus, any policies regarding entrepreneurs and SME policies on the Digital Agenda, innovation policies, R&amp;D policies, space policies and programmes like ITER.
The budget has to be in line with the fine words of our treaty and of our policies like EU 2020, the great Innovation Union, digital access to all, the Next Generation Network, and so forth.
Our words have to be in line with the numbers provided in the budget.
We can stop Europe, but we cannot stop the world developing and there is therefore unanimous agreement in our committee - first, to ask for the budget to be restored to the Commission proposal - which was already a compromise because we would have needed more - and then, to find additional resources for the new policies under the Lisbon Treaty, namely the space policy and ITER.
We are prepared, in the conciliation procedure, to find a compromise which is best for European citizens living in the 21st century. (NL) Madam President, my party does not see any need for the budget for 2011 to be any larger than the one for 2010; it is not necessary.
What we do want, however, is for the funds to be spent much more shrewdly, in a way that enables us to really achieve European added value.
I am not surprised, therefore, that no less than seven Member States voted against the Council common position.
As you all know, the budget is cast in stone and we, Parliament, have virtually no flexibility to shuffle things between chapters.
We do have to increase the necessary investments in knowledge, innovation, sustainability and energy, resulting in a larger budget; but the Council leaves us no choice.
Finally, Madam President, we need to be given our own resources, as that is the only way of inducing the Council to change its mind. (PL) We are talking about the new European Union budget in the context of the crisis of public finances in very many Member States and in the context of very serious cuts in national budgets, so it is not strange that we are also looking for such cuts in the Union budget.
Therefore, please do not seek cuts in those areas where we are not dealing either with social aid policy or with the squandering of money but with investments which are helping us to gain all the benefits from the common market, a market which we enlarged in 2004 and 2007.
We are talking, today, about the new budget in the context of building diplomatic institutions.
Please do not expect that MEPs from Central Europe will lend unconditional support to an increase in spending on the External Action Service in a situation when their interests and their countries are not going to be equally represented in these new institutions. (DE) Madam President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2011 budget, the most important thing is public opinion in the Member States, and we must give the Council credit for that - you have done very well in this regard.
In other words, you have made cuts where there was too much money on the line anyway, and afterwards the European Parliament, which is trying in good faith to cancel these cuts, becomes the villain, so to speak, and gets the blame for this.
We have said that we need better monitoring of the implementation of EU law in the Member States, because compliance with the law is a cornerstone of the European Union.
Here, too, we would have a rewarding joint task, which I warmly invite the Council to carry out. (DE) Madam President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, I believe that we are all agreed, even the gentlemen and the few ladies among the Eurosceptic to anti-Europe fractions of this House, that the EU performs important tasks and that the performance of these tasks represents European added value, because the nation states either cannot perform them or the final beneficiaries would not receive this money from the nation states.
This, of course, can only serve to show that the Council cannot say 'yes' to the Treaty of Lisbon while, at the same time, putting forward one or other project for financing and then saying: but you will not get any money for its implementation.
We firmly believe that those who triggered a crisis, the like of which we have never seen before, and the costs of which we all have to pay out of the public budgets of our own Member States, should be called on to compensate for these losses. (CS) All levels of government, starting with local authorities, must save.
All European governments, without exception, are being forced to reduce state spending.
This applies not only to the much-discussed situation in Greece, which has managed to reduce its budget deficit for the first six months of this year by 46%, but also to the Czech Republic, Germany, Ireland and all the others.
In my opinion, it should not be in regional policy, but rather in European administration, promotional costs and costs relating to the Brussels bureaucracy, which come to almost 7%.
Our vote on Wednesday is therefore a further tool available to Parliament to oblige the College to provide proof of its reliability.
In 2000, the agencies employed 1 219 persons and today, they employ 4 794 individuals.
As politicians, we must define the European rules so that the budget allocated to the Community agencies is spent as effectively as possible. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to make a success of this budget procedure, not just because it is the first budget under the Treaty of Lisbon, with a new procedure and new functions for the European Union, but especially because it comes at a crucial time for the future of Europe, affected as it has been by a severe crisis.
We, on the other hand, think that a stronger European budget, supported by own resources and also a financial transaction tax, is a precondition for effective European economic governance and for greater discipline in national budgets.
The Council therefore has three options to choose from: it can accept Parliament's priorities, or it can agree to a revision of the margins, or it can accept greater flexibility of the budget and in the budget, in the knowledge that Parliament will stand united in defence of its prerogatives and priorities. (PT) Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, the economic recovery of Europe can only be achieved through an ambitious budget that strengthens key areas like education, young people, and scientific research and innovation.
I am pleased with Parliament's 2011 draft budget, which is being discussed today, as it dwells precisely on the stated priorities, and I congratulate the rapporteur on this.
It is important to fight for our convictions; for a budget that is visionary in a time of crisis.
Parliament's proposal reflects this ambition.
Today, if we decided to raise the expenditure ceiling to the maximum threshold allowed by the treaties, this would mean an additional levy of more than 5 billion for countries like France and Germany.
Considering that the financial sector bears the main responsibility for the crisis and explosion in public debt, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament proposes that a line of 'own resources' should be created funded by a financial transactions tax; this proposal was rejected within the Committee on Budgets by the right, which may make up for it tomorrow and bring its actions into line with the numerous statements they have made to the media in favour of this measure.
It is a little more than two years since the fall of Lehman Brothers, and Parliament must not pass up an historic opportunity to create the foundations for a new development model, based on more lasting resources and certainly ones that are more just in terms of redistribution of wealth and solidarity.
Let us not fail to grasp this opportunity that European citizens expect of us and which, in any case, the financial operators are expecting of us. (EL) Madam President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that, in the current economic crisis, the present multiannual financial framework has repeatedly proven to be inadequate when it comes to financing numerous important political priorities.
Negotiations on the 2011 budget are being conducted at a particularly difficult time.
The economic and social crisis has hit the whole of Europe and the only possible response, therefore, is a European response, via a Community budget which has all the necessary means at its disposal.
However, we all surely know that the funding of many policies is cheaper and more effective if we avoid fragmenting our forces and if we finance them from a common European budget, and not from the budgets of the Member States.
Already in negotiations on the budget procedure for 2010, we agreed that we would preferentially use the reserve in heading 5 for financing costs arising from the Treaty of Lisbon.
As the main rapporteur for the European Union budget for 2010 for the other institutions, I asked the Council in the trialogues on 30 June to take a stance over the amending budget relating to the consequences of the Treaty of Lisbon for the European Economic and Social Committee and for the Committee on the Regions.
The Council has so far failed to take a position on this budget.
However, I do believe that in the next few weeks, we need a debate that goes through the individual subject-specific points and does not attach importance to the percentage points of savings in Europe, because ultimately, it needs to be our goal that the people of Europe benefit jointly from a common budgetary policy of the Member States and the European Union.
This powerful instrument that the treaty has placed at our disposal coincides with the worst economic situation that Europe has seen since 1929.
We have to make sure that this dire economic crisis does not turn into an even more dreadful political crisis.
If the trialogue were not successful and the amounts available in the 2011 budget were the 2010 amounts divided into twelfths, the distribution and operation of the structural funds would become quite complicated, and the European External Action Service would even be in danger of not getting off the ground.
We welcome the important work done by the rapporteur, Mrs Jędrzejewska, to whom we are grateful, not least for her efforts to focus the European Union's resources on youth, research and innovation.
As you know, the Erasmus programme began life in 1987, when 3 000 students took part in the programme.
So how can we achieve the major objectives we set ourselves in the Europe 2020 strategy while simultaneously cutting funding in these areas?
Therefore, I think there is added value in these very modest increases and the measure of responsibilities, considering the project is EUR 4 billion below the ceiling agreed in 2005-2006 for the year 2011.
I hope that, by ensuring that we have this global debate, we shall be able to show that the 2011 budget, on the basis of this new Lisbon procedure, will be a success, and I simply remind you that if we fail to reach an agreement on the 2011 budget, the perspectives for additional spending for 2011 will be even smaller and will not match what the Council is proposing today.
Above all, the reading of the 2011 budget, a budget which the European Parliament will adopt tomorrow, is a very disciplined reading.
I would like to stress that the European Union budget is not a budget of the same kind as the national budgets.
I would also like to point out that, of course, as general rapporteur, I hope we will be able, by working together, to adopt the 2011 budget successfully and efficiently, and I hope we will adopt it in such a way as to be able to implement Union policy from the beginning of January in accordance with what was decided in 2006 and in accordance with what we have been working on, too, for the whole of this year.
The Council should take note of those matters to which we have given additional emphasis in our reading of the budget.
As far as the Council is concerned, I appeal to its President, who is present today, for the Council to note the good will of the European Parliament in our reading.
What all this is about, and what the European Parliament is proposing, has not simply been pulled out of a hat, but is the effect of our earlier work, and I think that much of the Council's scepticism is, in fact, the result of the fact that the Council adopted its reading in a written procedure, because it is much easier to be negative in writing than during oral discussion.
I would like to point out once again that I believe it is right for us to have indicated our willingness to put our expenditure under the microscope, but that we, of course, should ask for what we need to meet our new requirements with complete self-assurance and fight for it so that we will also have the necessary funding.
It is, of course, the first time that we have had this new procedure following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, but I believe that all of us, right down to the real anti-Europe fractions and sceptics, have to be clear in our own minds once again, in the face of all of the criticism, including specific targeted criticism, that the European Union makes us stronger.
Every one of us and all of the Member States benefit as a result of the fact that we have the European Union, particularly in view of the changes to the challenges at global level.
Janusz Lewandowski also deserves a beautiful large banana for presenting a 2011 budget which comes much closer to Parliament's way of thinking.
The speakers who have given a very clear outline of Parliament's position also deserve our gratitude.
We would like a better and more effective budget, so that we do not have to spend several months or half-years disputing issues such as whether or not we can afford to spend EUR 75 million on compensating banana producing countries.
I believe that the essence of our debate is that in our view, as stated in the 2010 budget, the European budget is a means for handling the crisis, and not some kind of a reason for the crisis.
In the coming debate, we will only have one S&amp;D speaker but I think half a dozen EPP speakers.
However, we are dealing with Parliament's position today.
We see here how it, too, lacks any ambitious vision for the 2011 budget.
The effectiveness of the European Union is completely dependent on its budget.
Currently, funds are to be taken from agriculture and used to finance the nuclear research project ITER.
This example shows that the financing of large-scale research projects is dependent on recoveries from other areas, the amount of which is difficult to determine in advance.
As the weakest link in the food chain, farms need the security to be able to make plans in order to be able to exist.
Ring-fencing of the financial resources provided for this is necessary in order to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture in the EU.
Investments in agricultural research and green technology are investments in the future and they will create new jobs.
