European Arrest Warrant (debate) The next item is the oral questions to the Council and the Commission on the European Arrest Warrant.
author. - (DE) Madam President, today we find ourselves debating the issue of the European Arrest Warrant.
When the European Arrest Warrant was passed as a framework decision, the European Parliament always made it perfectly clear that, on the one hand, the conditions for applying the European Arrest Warrant are relatively strict, so that it should apply only to really serious crimes, that it should be applied in a proportionate way, and that the procedural standards in the European Union should be harmonised at the same time.
The punishment does not fit the crime and leads to a lack of trust in an important and useful instrument.
author. - Madam President, the Liberal Group in the European Parliament has always been supportive of the European Arrest Warrant because of its importance in the fight against serious cross-border crime.
However, let us just note the successes: between 2005 and 2009, the arrest warrant has secured the extradition of almost 12 000 drug smugglers, child sex offenders, rapists and others.
In the Netherlands, much attention has been focused on the fate of Cor Disselkoen.
It has so far contributed to the extradition of almost 12 000 drug smugglers, child sex offenders, rapists and terrorists, and has avoided lengthy extradition procedures in the process.
The Council has devoted a great deal of attention and energy to this issue, not least through a mutual peer evaluation of the practical application of this instrument which has been carried out in all Member States over a period of three years.
Thanks to the EAW, the Union has managed to reduce surrender times considerably, in many cases from one or two years to only one or two months.
The Council has been quite clear that in cases where preventive detention is inappropriate, the European Arrest Warrant should not be used.
A European Arrest Warrant is always based on a judicial decision in the issuing state and can be executed in the executing state only through a judicial decision.
The person will always be able to fully exercise his defence rights in the issuing Member State where the trial on the merits of the case takes place.
Directive 2010/64 of 20 October 2010 provides for the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and also applies in the execution of the European Arrest Warrant.
Furthermore, we welcome the fact that a recent Commission proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right to information in criminal proceedings provides for the right to written information in European Arrest Warrant proceedings.
In cases where a Member State refuses, following judicial proceedings, to execute a European Arrest Warrant, the person in question will be released.
It is the responsibility of the authorities of individual Member States to ensure that prison conditions are up to standard, regardless of whether persons have been surrendered from other Member States or not.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, you might know that the Commission adopted a report on the implementation of the Arrest Warrant on 11 April this year.
This report focuses on the fundamental aspects of the operation of the Arrest Warrant, highlighting for the first time since it became operational in January 2004 not only its successes but also its shortcomings.
That is why, and I think that everybody in this House agrees, the Arrest Warrant is an important tool to catch criminals and to render our criminal justice systems more effective.
First, the Commission calls on the EU Member States to exercise a proportionality test when they call for an Arrest Warrant, and to fill the gaps where their legislation fails to fully comply with the framework decision setting up the Arrest Warrant.
Speaking about safeguards for procedural rights, the report also reflects on the overarching importance of fundamental rights and mutual trust in the Member States' judicial systems.
Mr President, in my view, the arrest warrant is a fundamental tool in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of crime.
The weaknesses are perfectly identified, as Commissioner Reding has also said, not only in the Commission's report of April 2011, but also in its reports of 2005 and 2006.
The figures show that it is a useful tool, with 54 000 arrest warrants having been issued and 12 000 executed.
For that reason, it gives me great pleasure to hear Commissioner Reding say that Member States will be required to exercise a proportionality test and to take care not to issue arrest warrants for minor offences.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, the situation for our group is very clear.
The oral question we have today for our group is very simple.
I welcome this because I think that the European Arrest Warrant is very well understood by our fellow citizens, and is a crucial test in showing just what Europe is capable of in order to consolidate justice in Europe.
The existence and operation of this instrument is therefore to be welcomed, but we should also welcome the fact that it is being monitored.
But, because there are lots of Poles in the UK, most of whom are very welcome, we get lots of arrest warrants from Poland. (PL) Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Ludford very much for her question.
The problem is not only how the European Arrest Warrant is carried out, but also that prison conditions in various countries in Europe are such that you really cannot carry on sending people there any more.
The judge in the country to which the request is addressed should also have the discretion to say: 'I will not extradite people to a country in which prison facilities are inhumane and, as a judge, I will uphold Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights'.
I agree with the Council that countries should be discreet about cases in respect of which they issue such a request, but countries should also have the freedom to say: 'That is such a minor offence, I am not going to extradite people for that'.
This is why I will now ask you to give the name of this person who is being talked about, because we must name people whose rights have been violated. (NL) I make no secret of that, Mr Stoyanov.
The main reason for this is because it is taken as given that human rights enjoy the same respect throughout Europe.
We were sold the European Arrest Warrant on a promise that it would be used to send terrorists to justice, but the miscarriages of justice in the case of Garry Mann, Deborah Dark, Edmond Arapi, Andrew Symeou and many others, had no terrorist elements at all.
We need to have a guarantee that the standards of criminal justice and the prison conditions in the European Union do not result in a lack of confidence among the judicial systems in Member States.
In conclusion, I, too, would like to thank Commissioner Reding for all the actions she has taken to strengthen the procedural rights in criminal proceedings. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner Reding, the fact is that the abuse of fundamental rights is one of the most significant weaknesses, as we have been saying here all afternoon.
The 32 crimes included only relate to organised crime, unless piglets or ties are being stolen by armed and organised criminal gangs.
In my opinion, the Commission should be prepared for that. (PT) Mr President, the European Union is an experiment made up of experiments: the euro area, this very Parliament in which we find ourselves, the Schengen area and a number of other instruments are all experiments.
Moreover, let us not fool ourselves or be under any illusion: being detained in a prison in country A or country B is not the same thing as being imprisoned in Europe.
We as legislators, with the Commission as initiator, Parliament and the Council as colegislators, must do our utmost to ensure that the law really does guard the guards. (IT) Mr President, the European Arrest Warrant is undoubtedly a fundamental tool in the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
In the meantime, however, it is important to ensure that the instrument is applied uniformly in all the Member States, with a real distinction between serious crimes, for which it is intended and sanctioned, and non-serious crimes.
Furthermore, amongst the 600 000 prisoners in the European Union, increasing numbers are detained in a Member State other than their own, due, precisely, to the European Arrest Warrant.
The European Arrest Warrant marked an important step forwards in combating crime, by helping to create a European area of justice and to combat cross-border crime and terrorism.
To close, I should like to stress that you are right, Commissioner, when you say that we need to make maximum possible use of Interpol and information available from the Schengen system.
There have, however, been alarming reports concerning use of the warrant, such as the recent Commission report and Commissioner Reding's statement, in which she said that the Member States should ensure that the warrant is used correctly, and that it should not be issued mechanically or automatically for relatively minor offences.
I therefore ask the Commission how it intends to proceed and whether it intends to submit a proposal to remove the Member States' discretion in the transposition of Articles 3 and 4 of the framework decision, concerning the grounds for mandatory non-execution and optional non-execution.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, there is general agreement in this House that the European Arrest Warrant is a positive tool and has served the European Union well and acted as a security.
That is why the Green Paper will kick off a public consultation, which will run until 30 November and will help to explore more closely the links between detention issues and mutual trust in Europe's area of justice.
The time that a person can spend in detention before being tried in court and during court proceedings varies a lot between Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, thank you very much for this debate.
Concerning prison conditions: the Member States are under a general obligation to ensure that prison conditions are in accordance with the basic tenets of human dignity and do not violate the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment laid down in Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
It is doubtful whether Article 85 of the Treaty provides a legal basis for legislative action at EU level on prison conditions as such.
Written statements (Rule 149) Seven years after the entry into force (on 1 January 2004) of the Council framework decision of 13 June 2002 on the European Arrest Warrant (EAW) and the surrender procedures between Member States, the Commission has published some statistical data collected in the Member States between 2005 and 2009.
Furthermore, it is advisable to ensure that procedural rights are actually respected: that is, that individuals wanted under the auspices of an EAW have a genuine right to legal aid at their disposal, both in the Member State that issues the warrant and in the Member State where it is implemented.
