Situation in Iraq (debate) The next item is the statement by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/Vice-President of the Commission on the situation in Iraq.
Although we have seen terrible attacks targeting government institutions, the total number of civilian deaths in 2009 was less than half of the level of 2008.
Inter-sectarian violence, a major problem in 2006 and 2007, has been significantly reduced.
The EU has been playing a leading role in electoral assistance, and we will continue to assist Iraq in this and other areas until Iraqi institutions can assume full responsibility themselves.
Parliament has taken a keen interest in Iraq, and we expect to see even more cooperation between the European Parliament and the Iraqi Council of Representatives in the future.
Since 2004, there have been attacks on 65 churches.
The European Union cannot continue to stand idly by in this situation.
Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union refers to human rights, including the rights of minorities, as literally one of the core values of the European Union.
We require respect for minorities of our 27 Member States and it is your job, Baroness Ashton, to command that respect at the international level, too.
The Iraqi political process has shown itself to be important - even if, as you were saying, interesting - but still very fragile.
The Union's EUJUST LEX programme directly involves us in the process of improving Iraqi legislation and democratic institutions, and we, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, consider it a positive sign that the Council has decided to extend the mission until 30 August 2010.
The EU should continue to maintain strong support for Iraq through its cooperation programmes, with the aim of participating in the process to stabilise and develop the country, and after the elections, it should strengthen relations between the parliaments.
However, as we know, Iraq remains a country with very serious problems in relation to security, respect for democracy and human rights, as well as economic insecurity.
With elections due on 7 March, the Iraqi Election Commission last week, as my colleague mentioned, barred almost 500 candidates, mainly Sunni politicians, from standing.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, Baroness Ashton, the elections will not be free and fair in Iraq.
I think it was no coincidence that this outrageous ban, together with the banning of over 500 further secular Iraqi politicians, was announced on the very day Manouchehr Mottaki, Iran's odious Foreign Minister, was visiting Baghdad.
Is the European Council, are the 27 Member States of the European Union, just watching on meekly as this Afghanisation of Iraq takes place, an Iraqi Christian has asked.
Whatever it may be, a Mesopotamia without its ancient Christian community will not face a more tolerant future, nor will that be good for Europe's security in the long term. (RO) The preparations for the legislative and presidential elections on 7 March have generated a frenzy of activity involving the formation of new coalitions and alliances.
The main problems facing the authorities in Baghdad are the postponement of the referendum on the SOFA agreement signed with the United States and of the finalisation of the oil and gas law, the drop in oil price, the large number of executions - there are currently 900 people who have received the death sentence - and the use of torture to obtain confessions.
My country has shown that it keeps its commitments to its partners by retaining its military presence in Iraq until the mission is accomplished. (PT) The democratic achievements of the Iraqi people still need to be consolidated and furthered, as does the security situation.
However, the Election Commission's recent statement that around 500 Sunni politicians would be barred from standing is not conducive to national reconciliation, may jeopardise the electoral process and could reignite conflicts.
Baroness Ashton, European leaders should strive to convince the Iraqi authorities to abolish it.
A society that is civil, free and dynamic is a prerequisite for the consolidation of democracy in Iraq. (PL) Madam President, Mrs Ashton, despite the huge commitment of international forces and hundreds of victims among the international coalition, including 23 Polish soldiers, the situation in Iraq is still bad.
However, we still receive news of terrorist attacks which are destabilising not only Iraq but the whole of the Middle East.
I would like to encourage you to adopt a more assertive stance and to cooperate with the United States in order to achieve solutions which will influence and put pressure on Iran to stop interfering in Iraq's internal affairs.
I would like to remind you that 3 912 women stood quite openly in the local elections in Iraq last year.
That must be seen as a positive thing, particularly in an Arab country.
It also provided us with some hope ahead of this year's parliamentary elections on 7 March, particularly since the Sunnis participated in the local elections.
The European Union has always paid much attention to Iraq and, together with the international community, has participated both in the reconstruction of Iraq and in peacekeeping and security missions.
The Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and Iraq in the area of energy cooperation which was signed on Monday demonstrates its commitment to develop a long-term relationship that is mutually beneficial.
Politicians show who they are not only by what they say, but also by what they do not say, and I did not hear in your speech, Mrs Ashton, anything about some matters which have shocked a significant part of European public opinion, including public opinion in my country.
It seems to me this should be stressed very strongly, especially because the Iraqi authorities are receiving financial aid from the European Union, which they then often use in a highly improper way, for example, in the intervention in Camp Ashraf. (PL) Madam President, I think Iraq can serve as an example of how sometimes, to break the back of a dictatorship which destroys its opponents in their thousands using chemical weapons, it is necessary to use force.
We are very clear in doing this that Iraq is a unitary state and that all our cooperation is with the government of all of Iraq.
I have indicated that we are sending the election assessment team shortly, which I hope will help us deal with the issues that honourable Members have raised in that context.
However, we can see, with the coming elections and with the opportunity for greater cooperation - an opportunity for the European Union, with its value system and the things we are particularly concerned about: human rights, the rights of minorities, the issues of capital punishment, developing strong cooperation on energy security and supply and working more closely with the government, while being clear about the expectations we have - a future for Iraq that will be peaceful and democratic.
