Developments in the ongoing debt crisis and the EU response (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on developments in the ongoing debt crisis and the EU response.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I fully understand the significant interest in this Parliament in the actions being undertaken within the Union and beyond to tackle the challenges which some Member States are facing in relation to their public finances.
The global financial crisis has had a significant impact on both revenues and expenditure in all our countries, even if the extent and nature of that impact is not the same in all cases and the capacity of individual Member States to handle the consequences is also very different.
Ministers of the eurozone Member States are also finalising the technical details of the European Stability Mechanism, which is due to take effect from 2013 as a permanent financial support mechanism to replace the European Financial Stability Facility.
Following the agreement last December of an overall EUR 85 billion assistance programme for Ireland, the Irish authorities have undertaken a great deal of work to implement the adjustment programme to which the financial support was attached.
The report also identifies further areas where reforms are required in order to build the critical mass necessary to ensure fiscal sustainability and economic recovery.
Finally, Portugal.
On 6 April, the Portuguese caretaker government announced its intention to seek financial assistance from the European Union.
However, Portugal was also going through a period of political uncertainty which, as we know, led to the resignation of the government on 24 March.
The Portuguese Parliament had previously rejected the new fiscal conciliation package proposed by the government.
The financial envelope will be around EUR 78 billion covering a three-year period.
Thus, the key task of the EU's economic policy now is to contain the sovereign debt crisis and thus protect the ongoing recovery in the real economy of Europe.
It is a Portuguese programme that deserves the support of the European Union and of the International Monetary Fund.
Our joint assistance of EUR 78 billion shows the strong commitment to help Portugal and safeguard the financial stability of Europe.
Europe stands by Portugal for the sake of the country and for the sake of economic stability in Europe.
We are implementing a very systematic programme of fiscal consolidation in all Member States, and they are committed to bold structural reforms to boost growth and job creation.
The first - and the primary - objective of our strategy has been to prevent another cardiac arrest of the kind that followed the failure of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 and subsequently led to the financial crisis and economic recession worldwide.
We have done that and thus protected the ongoing recovery in the real economy in Europe.
Secondly, we have been able largely to contain the distress in the sovereign debt markets to the three countries in the programme.
Thirdly, the programmes in both Greece and Ireland are still in the relatively early stages.
In any event, while the fiscal effort of the past year is unprecedented - over 7% of GDP, or EUR 20 billion - it is clear that Greece has to seriously reinforce the implementation of the economic reforms, achieve a breakthrough in the privatisation programme, and then ensure its full implementation.
In conclusion, the fundamental reforms of financial regulation and economic governance in the European Union are profoundly changing the economic and financial architecture of Europe.
Mr President, I would like to thank the minister, Mr Kármán, and Commissioner Rehn for their explanation, given what we have seen over recent weeks.
The support measures for Greece, Ireland and Portugal need to be robust in order to restore financial and economic stability.
The package must pave the way for sustainable public finances and economic growth.
One year on, therefore, in addition to Greece, another two countries in the euro area, Ireland and Portugal, have taken recourse to the support mechanism, as they are unable to secure the necessary financing on the markets.
However, in the case of Greece, Commissioner, despite what has been achieved, as you have repeatedly emphasised, with the 7-point reduction in the primary deficit and a 5% reduction in the overall deficit, the fact that the recession was deeper than forecast in 2010 has resulted in less revenue for the State.
Commissioner, knowing your attachment to Europe, I believe that you will agree with me that the solutions we are debating today, the way in which we shall manage this crisis, will no doubt be a major chapter in European history.
One of the reasons is - and I turn here to the Council, and even though I know that the Hungarian Presidency is perhaps not the one to blame, you will have to be the messenger - that difficult decisions are constantly being taken in the form of small partial decisions because we cannot manage to resolve this problem all in one go.
This is worrying in view of the fact that we probably have several difficult decisions ahead of us, including with regard to the situation in Greece, and there is a risk that at some stage, we will find ourselves up against a wall.
Some countries bailed out their own banks at huge cost to the taxpayers, without any handouts from the EU.
The major problem which is preventing us from making progress with debt restructuring is that the banking system, as Mrs Ford has also said, has not been properly reformed.
I would therefore like to encourage you to put forward a strong package which will improve the macro-economic conditions in these countries in the euro area.
Mr President, I should like to express my deep indignation here and give voice to the protests being heard in Portugal against the policies that have led us to the crisis we are experiencing, in particular, the veritable submission and aggression pact imposed on the Portuguese people by what are known as the 'troika': the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Central Bank (ECB) and the European Commission.
Contrary to all the proclamations of solidarity at election propaganda time, what we have is a policy of social regression and of prolonged economic recession.
The reason we are talking about countries which are broke - and they are broke - is because their ridiculous, ineffective, ignorant politicians consistently spend more money than they can raise.
Let me explain to you that these countries are broke.
It is an absolute disgrace, and there was not even a debate in our national parliament on actually rescuing these bust banks.
That is why the series of proposals on economic governance currently being debated in the European Parliament are particularly important.
Portugal is capable of having a liberalised economy that is successful and more competitive.
The euro is here for the long haul in all euro area Member States.
Any Member State leaving the euro - which is what Mrs Le Pen wants for France - would see its new currency dramatically devalued.
It is rates like those that would enable Member States under pressure to overcome the crisis and to return to the path of financial stability. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) Mr President, the previous speaker said that if Greece were to leave the eurozone, its currency would collapse, but in that case, it would default.
I thought this was a House for Europe, not a House for 27 different Member States.
I believe, Mr Rehn, that we should listen to what is being said.
It will, in particular, be more costly for taxpayers because the more that time goes by, the more of a burden the Greek public debt will become on public or quasi-public entities - I am thinking of the European Central Bank, I am thinking of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) - and it is increasingly the taxpayer who is going to be asked to pay up.
I am sure that your nights are not very long and I promise that, on the day you return to a more decent life, I will gladly invite you to dinner. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I would have expected you to reply with honesty that the austerity programme, the memorandum being applied with religious devotion in Greece, has been a total failure.
I think that this combination of facts, this inequality and the disparities which are appearing and operating within the European Union are the problem and one of the causes of the problem.
In this context, I would like to raise two issues.
It is a crisis of the euro area, of which Greece, Ireland and Portugal are the first victims.
If there is not a robust response from the European Union that calms the markets, this pressure will spread to other Member States.
Portugal needs to continue with the structural reforms already started, to increase productivity, and to promote economic growth.
Portugal will pay the European Union around EUR 3 billion in interest per year.
This is a loan that will be paid back in full, and at interest rates similar to the market rates Portugal was paying around a month ago.
In a globalised world, no country can solve all its problems on its own.
In Finland, a party for which dissociating itself from Portugal has become a hobbyhorse illustrates the extent to which the debt problem is worrying the public.
The basic reason for this attack by the European Union, the bourgeois governments and capital on the income and rights of the working classes, the main weapon in which is in the agreement on the euro and the European stability - for which read controlled bankruptcy - mechanism, goes beyond capitalist management of the crisis and the debt.
Britain, being outside the eurozone, should be unaffected by these debts, but our previous government underwrote GBP 10 billion worth of debts under the exceptional occurrences clause of the Lisbon Treaty and the present government will continue to supply loans directly and indirectly.
Greece and Ireland will eventually default on their debts, and we will all be shown to have thrown good money after bad. (PT) Mr President, I should like to start by saying that I, naturally, believe that the agreement reached for Portugal is a balanced one.
I am not taking the same attitude as others here who believe that countries like Greece, Ireland and Portugal did everything right: that they made no mistakes and did not go too far; that they did everything right and it was only the international crisis that caused problems.
I think that it will be extremely difficult to achieve the goals without lower interest rates, as we are seeing at the moment in the Greek case, in fact.
If Portugal is able to comply rigorously with the results of the agreement in the first few months, I think that it will be in a position to go to the European Financial Stability Facility and the International Monetary Fund and ask for a review of the rates within six to nine months.
For God's sake, let the centre unite. (FI) Mr President, this debate has been useful.
This is a very serious situation for those countries in crisis, but it is just as serious for Germany, Austria and Finland, because taxpayers in these countries have suffered budget cuts and been through serious crises.
The questions have been justified, and that is why it is very important that the Portuguese issue should be made a model example of how a crisis can be held in check, dealt with, and prevented from spreading.
I think that Portugal must now first ensure that it repays the loans by selling its assets, as has been said.
It must also negotiate with its individual lenders to establish concrete proposals and ideas about how this crisis can be beaten.
Voters in Germany, Austria and Finland will not stand for it if, for example, there should be new bailouts for Greece or if this case should fail. (SK) Mr President, Portugal is another country in need of financial assistance from the Eurobond, but us be honest and admit that the labelling of this crisis as a 'debt' crisis or a 'euro' crisis is highly misleading.
Yes, Greece, Portugal and Ireland are being offered a debt settlement, but their debts are being increased, not reduced.
Writing off public debts in combination with enforcing strict requirements paves the way for a new future.
The European Commission has been imaginative in imposing a three-year government programme and a preferred government on a country three weeks before an election.
The European Commission has been imaginative in demanding an interest rate of 6% from that same country, and in plunging Portugal into recession for the next two years.
In recent weeks, and today in this House, many voices have spoken in favour of debt restructuring in Greece.
However, I must say that the proponents of sovereign debt restructuring seem to ignore the potentially devastating implications for financial stability in the country itself and in the euro area as a whole, and the consequences and ramifications for economic growth and employment.
Thus, a debt restructuring in Greece would have major consequences on the soundness of the banking sector in Greece, as well as on any banks having exposure to Greek securities.
This debate is about the sovereign debt crisis.
We need to build bridges over these divergences in order to save Europe, and we need to make the necessary decisions to avoid another, even worse crisis, and to enable the whole of Europe to recover from this extremely serious financial crisis that we have experienced in the last years.
Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to reflect briefly on two trains of thought.
Although, undoubtedly, the crisis of the banking system contributed considerably to our current economic problems, it would be a mistake to conceal that most of the problems arose prior to the crisis from a lack of fiscal discipline in numerous countries, from economic policy that did not strengthen competitiveness, and from the absence of coordination in European economic policy.
Concerning the Portuguese programme and the three adjustment programmes in general, first, I would like to welcome the parliamentary agreement on financial policy.
At the same time, I wish to point out that it is also clear in the economic policy programme compiled by the Troika in relation to Portugal that the programmes devised for Greece, Ireland and Portugal alike adapt to the characteristics of each country and are not formulaic in any way.
For Ireland, the consolidation of the banking system can be regarded as the key element.
Now for Portugal, the most crucial parts are perhaps structural reforms, and labour market and commodity market reforms.
I believe that, although implementing economic policy programmes related to credit agreements means serious efforts for the Member States, at the same time, this is also an opportunity to face up to long-standing structural problems and to find solutions and answers to these within a short period, which, in the medium term, could lead to sustainable and higher growth in these countries.
Owing to its scale and the associated constraints, the debt issue is more than just a real problem for countries like Portugal: it constitutes a central element of the violent social, economic, political and ideological offensive under way, the true causes of which are obscured.
It incorporates the fundamentals of the antisocial measures implemented in other countries, like Greece and Ireland, as well as those included in the 'Euro Plus Pact' imposed by the European powers.
A total of 91 major European banks were tested and 7 failed.
