For this reason alone, it is essential for the European Parliament not only to take part in this discussion, but also to have the right of codecision.
It is therefore a good thing that states and grid operators will provide essential information on their energy delivery capacities to the European Commission, which will then be able to assess the shortcomings of the networks and of EU energy security policy and will be able to inform individual countries about the reserve capacity in their energy systems.
Motion for a resolution (LT) I would particularly like to stress my support for Ukraine for holding democratic elections and giving people the opportunity to express their free will.
I also have the hope that these elections will bring Ukraine even closer to the European Union, and may even build a stronger bridge in EU-Russia cooperation.
Both Stefan Bandera and these two organisations were responsible for ethnic cleansing and atrocities committed against the Polish population in the 1940s in parts of what is, today, western Ukraine.
The nationalists murdered 120 000 Poles.
In wishing the very best for Ukraine, I do hope that the glorification of extreme, criminal nationalism will be condemned. (PL) Mr President, I had the pleasure of being a European Parliament observer during the first round of the presidential elections in Ukraine.
Ukraine should be our political partner, and we should open the way for Ukraine to join the European Union.
This particular motion for a resolution is paving the way for these prospects and, of course, there will also be restructurings during that process, as in so many other countries.
And the main lesson we should learn from this is that we should put effort into making the European Union more involved in the process, not only when it comes to the investigation of alleged crimes, but in a pro-active, preventive way as a party to the Middle East Quartet. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say on behalf of part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and, above all, on behalf of my colleague, Elmar Brok, that we are shocked that the House has today rejected the amendment which would have included Christians and other religious minorities in this report.
Currently, 21 of the 25 reports on individual countries that the Court has produced concern Israel, as if Israel were the world's most oppressive country in the area of human rights.
Report: Vladimír Maňka (NL) In my view, Parliament should be a little ashamed of the de facto budget amendment it has just adopted in this report.
The part of it that relates to increasing human resources for Parliamentary committees and groups to the sum of EUR 4 million can be justified because the Treaty of Lisbon is making new legislative demands of Parliament.
Increasing MEPs' funds for hiring assistants by EUR 8 million, however, means that next year, it will not be 8 million, but 16 million, and this is clearly excessive, as in the coming year, a new increase of EUR 1 500 per month is planned for Members, which amounts to not 16, but EUR 32 million.
Report: Maria do Céu Patrão Neves (LT) I greatly welcome the decision adopted on new rules in the fishing sector.
As we in the European Parliament know, 27% of fish species are on the brink of extinction and unless fishing is restricted, they will disappear.
I hope and pray that the European Union will have sufficient political will to not just draft the reform, but implement it as well. (FI) Mr President, I would first like to say that I voted for the Green Paper on the reform of the fisheries policy, as our group were advised to by our shadow rapporteur, Carl Haglund.
Written explanations of vote I voted for this report because it makes some improvements to the current system which will support better reporting of information about the investment projects involving the EU's energy infrastructure.
I support the change to the legal basis proposed by the Commission so that the regulation can be based on Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The aim is to strengthen the role that EU institutions can play in energy policy, especially in the operation of the energy market and resource security, the promotion of energy efficiency and development of new forms of renewable energy, as well as in supporting the interconnection of energy networks.
Combating climate change, ensuring energy supply and using renewable energy: these are very important issues in the European Union and greater efforts must be made to encourage and ensure effective, focussed investment, and it must be ensured that these issues remain at the heart of the European Union's energy policy.
However, the European energy policy cannot be effectively promoted without having adequate and clear information about existing and planned energy infrastructure and projects in the European Union.
The new regulation is a very important piece of legislation in the EU energy policy and I very much hope that it can work in practice.
The European energy policy cannot be effectively promoted without having adequate and clear information about existing and planned energy infrastructure in the European Union.
The initiative is valid and necessary, but this fund needs to be swelled with the EU resources that are already available in the budget and linked to forms of financing guaranteed by the European Investment Bank and/or other financial institutions, so that it can have an adequate share in the equity of the individual public-private partnerships that are in operation.
The Treaty of Lisbon has given the European Union greater powers in the area of energy policy.
The climate and energy package aims to increase the competitiveness of EU industry in a world where there are ever more restrictions on carbon emissions.
This regulation on investment projects related to energy infrastructure within the European Union will help to make the market more transparent and predictable, supporting our businesses and creating a positive environment for competitiveness.
Given the importance of an integrated energy policy, not only in combating climate change and reducing CO2 emissions, but also in ensuring efficiency and less energy dependence within Europe, communication and transmission of information about investments and energy infrastructure projects is crucial.
It is vital for European energy policy that the Commission has a current view of trends in energy investments within the Member States so as to be able to develop integrated policies to promote greater energy efficiency and investment in cleaner technologies, thus ensuring progressive energy independence in the face of external suppliers and fossil fuels.
The rapporteur considers that this is indeed an important piece of the puzzle in the EU energy policy, reasoning that we cannot effectively promote a European energy policy at EU level without having adequate information about our energy infrastructure.
Yet, beyond our fundamental disagreement about European energy policy, this report can also be placed within a legal context, or within the framework of the internal market.
However, some positive aspects are also considered here, particularly when it states that it is essential that the confidentiality of information is ensured and that any resulting proposals are neutral and do not amount to market intervention on a political level.
Indeed, it is crucial to have a sufficiently detailed overview in order to strike a better balance between the supply and demand of energy at European level and to decide on the shrewdest investments in terms of infrastructure.
in writing. - Despite the disappointment of Copenhagen, the EU cannot allow the lack of international consensus to slow down our own efforts in effecting a sustainable energy policy.
The Scottish Government is continuing to pioneer in the field of renewable energy and the EU has an important role, too, in driving forward the agenda.
The effective promotion of our energy policy requires adequate information on infrastructure and I voted accordingly today.
Lastly, I should like to emphasise the fact that I voted against Amendment 81 (by which the entire nuclear energy chain was to be included in the infrastructure covered by the regulation), since there are already provisions which regulate these matters in the Euratom Treaty.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, decisions on matters relating to energy policy are made in codecision, so it is necessary to readjust the regulations based on the new legal set-up within the EU.
The aim of this motion for a resolution is to ensure that Member States provide accurate information on their projects in the area of energy infrastructure.
The purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure that accurate information is provided to the Commission on a regular basis regarding EU investment projects in energy infrastructure to enable it to fulfil its duties, especially those related to its contribution to the European energy policy.
The repealed regulation is regarded as out of date as it does not reflect the major changes which have taken place in the energy sector since 1996 (the European Union's enlargement and the aspects linked to energy supply security, renewable energy sources, the policy on climate change and the EU's new role in the energy sector under the Treaty of Lisbon).
I voted for this report as European legislation needs to be updated in every area, and especially in the energy sector.
This regulation is very important because it aims to ensure that the Commission is accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in energy infrastructure, at both national and cross-border level, so that the Union can ensure that the internal market functions correctly and that all the Member States have a secure energy supply.
Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has always stressed the need to achieve a 10% interconnection between Member States, as stipulated by the European Council, and any provision that highlights shortcomings in this respect is very positive.
Even more historic, for the first time since I worked in this House, we managed to get rid of the Euratom Treaty as a legal basis although this regulation covers also transparency for investments in the nuclear sector.
We must encourage Ukraine to actively participate in the Eastern Partnership and support its efforts to ensure more democracy and respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the commitment to safeguard the market economy, sustainable development and good governance.
Following the presidential elections, Ukraine must move closer to the European Union.
The door to Europe should be open for Ukraine.
Transparent elections are an important step in strengthening the principles of the democratic state.
It is very important for Ukraine to participate in the Eastern Partnership and in the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly, cooperating with the European Parliament.
It is important that President Viktor Yanukovich does not forget the promises he made on the day he assumed his mandate.
As energy security is a crucial factor for the Member States of the European Union, the role of Ukraine is important, which is why it should be encouraged to address its energy problems by improving relations with Russia through bilateral agreements.
Ukraine must also, as a matter of priority, have good relations with its neighbouring countries, the countries of the Eastern Partnership and EURONEST.
I support the proposals and also the other provisions in this compromise resolution as a whole and I will vote for their adoption.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution which highlights the importance of strengthening cooperation between the EU and Ukraine.
The political and economic stabilisation of that country and the strengthening of cooperation between Ukraine and the EU in the field of energy are prerequisites for the recognition of Ukraine's European aspirations.
As a reference area and a place for promoting peace and the economic, social and cultural development of its citizens, the European Union has a duty to take on a decisive role in the development of a democratic system within Ukraine, including strengthening the mechanisms for European integration.
This will also help to ease regional conflicts within the country, which is of great geostrategic importance to the EU, in view of relations with Russia and Central Asia, particularly in terms of energy.
In this process, I would also emphasise the contribution that this motion for a resolution has made to the integration into the EU of a large group of immigrant Ukrainians, along with promoting the role of young people and education in terms of social, economic and cultural progress within Ukraine.
Based on today's vote on the resolution on the situation in Ukraine, we welcomed not only that the presidential elections were conducted in accordance with democratic principles, but also the inauguration of the new president, whom we are expecting to pursue a policy of openness and cooperation towards the EU.
We have reconfirmed with this vote what we have said on other occasions as well, that we must demonstrate an open approach through dialogue and firm commitments in order to give Ukraine the necessary encouragement to favour a pro-European development.
in writing. - I supported Amendment 2, tabled on behalf of the ECR Group, to the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in Ukraine, which voices concern that the Nord Stream pipeline project undermines the principle of solidarity in the EU's energy security and will be constructed to circumvent Ukraine.
Even if not directly relevant to the current situation in Ukraine, I fully share the view that the Nord Stream project has been designed by the Russian Government as primarily a political project with a goal to divide Europe and isolate not only Ukraine but also some new Member States.
I voted in favour of the draft resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) because I believe that the EU must help Ukraine implement democratic reforms and European values, and guarantee human rights and the rights of persons belonging to national minorities.
The new Ukrainian president won the elections standing on a programme guaranteeing rights for minorities, and the EU must support the effective, long-term implementation of this programme.
I believe that the conservation of this valuable European multicultural and multidenominational heritage, including cemeteries, monuments, buildings and churches in Northern Bukovina, must be a priority objective for cooperation between the EU and Ukraine.
The motion for a resolution on the state of affairs in Ukraine addresses the current state of affairs in that country and the situation around the presidential elections extremely well.
It reminds Ukrainian politicians and government organs of the need for political and economic stabilisation, which can, in particular, be achieved by constitutional reform, a consolidation of the rule of law, the establishment of a social market economy, renewed efforts to combat corruption, and the improvement of the economic and investment climate.
For the reasons I have set out, I abstained from the vote on the motion for a resolution.
Mr President, I supported the resolution by the European Parliament concerning the situation in Ukraine.
The first step should be participation in the Eastern Partnership, and the last should be membership of the European Union.
The country has taken a step towards European democracy.
Let us hope that the new Ukrainian President will be a reliable partner with whom we can cooperate to strengthen stability and economic development in Eastern Europe together with other neighbouring states.
I voted for this resolution because it takes into account the positive changes in such an important neighbouring state of the EU, although there still remain many complications and tensions between various government institutions in this country.
I voted against this amendment, because it increased the possibility of using Russian instead of Ukrainian.
In this case, I voted in favour of the amendment, because I wanted to manifest my opposition to construction of this pipeline.
Above all, it must be actively committed to creating dedicated UNHRC mechanisms for responding quickly and effectively to human rights crises in Iran, Afghanistan, Iraq and Yemen.
in writing. - Human rights are still violated in many countries and it is unfortunate that grave violations sometimes are not addressed timely and properly by the international community.
The EU's role as a global player has increased in recent decades and the newly established European External Action Service under the Lisbon Treaty could be instrumental in helping the Union to act more effectively to meet global challenges and to address human rights violations in a more coherent, consistent and efficient manner.
The EU now has a great opportunity to strengthen its role in the UN Human Rights Council and should fully use it to increase visibility and credibility of EU actions in the area of human rights.
The UNHCR is a political body that is subject to 'extreme politicisation', as is acknowledged in the text of the resolution.
I abstained, despite the fact that the motion for a resolution contains positive elements, because important amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left were voted down and, as a result, the content was inadequate.
The European Union must resign from US 'democracy export' campaigns and create a framework for international relations with respect for the rules of international law and an enhanced role for the UN.
The Swedish Conservatives have today, 25 February 2010, voted in favour of the joint resolution on the 13th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council,.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution on the United Nations Platform for Action for Gender Equality, which identifies key steps required for the European Union to meet strategic objectives on equality between women and men.
The follow-up to the Commission's Roadmap for Equality between Women and Men 2006-2010 must take into consideration the long-term consequences of the economic crisis and climate change in a society that is getting older and ethnically more diverse.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the 13th session of the UN Human Rights Council.
The politicisation of the Human Rights Council and the ongoing blockade against those who have taken a stronger stance in condemning human rights violations in various parts of the world justify a change in the Council's structure and way of operating.
The European Union must actively participate in the work of the Council, while remaining aware of its limitations and problems, and try to impart a balanced, yet strict and exacting, view of what respect for human rights should be.
The Human Rights Council (UNHRC) is a platform specialising in universal human rights and a specific forum dealing with human rights within the UN system.
We regret the rejection of the proposals made by our group, particularly the following: points out that the Member States of the UN should promote food sovereignty and food security as an instrument for reducing poverty and unemployment; welcomes the fact that a report from the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the violations of human rights in Honduras since the coup d'état is on the agenda of the 13th session; calls on the EU Member States to work for and support a strong condemnation of the coup d'état and for the restoration of democracy and the rule of law in that country; expresses its concern at the situation in Colombia, particularly the discovery of thousands of unidentified dead.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the 13th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, firstly to very warmly welcome the initiative to have the UNHCR put at the top of its agenda the impact of the global economic and financial crises to the realisation of all human rights.
I also think it is important to highlight the need for a strong EU common position on the follow-up to the fact-finding mission on the conflict in Gaza and Southern Israel; it is imperative, in this regard, that the recommendations included in the Goldstone report be implemented.
Finally, Iran's candidacy in the UNHRC elections to be held in May 2010 is of particular concern and must be followed up with strong EU action to prevent countries with a dubious human rights record from being elected.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the final text of the resolution, among other reasons, because it kept the paragraphs related to the joint study related to the existence of secret detention centres, the necessary implementation of the recommendations of the Goldstone report and the ICC, and because it included also the amendment on Western Sahara tabled by GUE.
It attaches significant importance to support for the rights of women, children and national minorities and, in particular, to combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination.
The Union's work in this area to date gives us the right to demand respect from others for high standards in the field of democracy and human rights.
In the marble of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe buildings, we have engraved the leitmotif of 17 October - the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty: 'Wherever men and women are condemned to live in poverty, human rights are violated.
That is why I am inviting the members of the European Fourth World Committee to send a letter along these lines to the delegates of the UN General Assembly expressing Parliament's concern in this area.
Equality between women and men is a fundamental right and common value of the European Union.
I voted in favour of the resolution for the Beijing +15 - UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality.
Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union highlights a number of values shared by Member States: pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and gender equality.
I voted in favour of the resolution on Beijing +15 - UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality, as the strategic objectives of the Beijing Platform have not been achieved and inequality and gender stereotypes persist, with women remaining in a position subordinate to men in the areas addressed in the Platform.
The Commission must develop further the annual review of the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action and use the indicators and analytical reports effectively as a contribution to different policy fields, as well as a basis for new initiatives aimed at achieving gender equality.
The European Commission should prepare a strategy of action for gender equality guidelines and take into account the economic and financial crisis, sustainable development, as well as current guideline priorities, equal economic independence for women and men, combining work, family and private life and equal participation of women and men in decision making.
At present, there is a distinct lack of data on gender equality, violence against women and institutional mechanisms.
Gender equality is a fundamental principle in our times, but gender inequality persists, and the strategic objectives of the Beijing Platform are still a long way from being achieved.
I would like to emphasise the importance of the role that women play in science and technology.
Such rights are often severely violated in a world where women are still the main victims of crimes against their physical wellbeing and sexual self-determination.
However, gender equality can never for an instant mask the natural, social and cultural difference between the sexes; equal rights are not the same thing as equal treatment.
In the case of women, this is particularly pertinent in areas such as maternity support, the reconciliation of work and family life and special protection against crimes that are mainly committed against women and children, such as sexual exploitation, human trafficking or abuse.
Finally, I would stress that any EU initiative in this area cannot attempt to give women the right to abortion in the name of sexual and reproductive health; this must remain a matter for the individual Member States alone to decide.
Gender equality is a fundamental principle of the European Union, and is enshrined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
There is no doubt that the unfortunate situation of gender discrimination continues to exist today, in both developing and developed countries - and, specifically, in the European Union - at all social, economic and cultural levels.
This structural problem is an obstacle to progress and the development of communities in particular, and humanity in general.
In order to do this, it will be vital to ensure cultural, social and economic equality between men and women.
The economic and financial crisis, the impact of climate change and an ageing society are all factors that the European Commission and the Member States must take into account in actions and policies that aim to promote gender equality.
The Swedish Conservatives have today, 25 February 2010, voted in favour of the resolution on Beijing +15 - UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality,.
We believe in the ability of individuals to make decisions concerning their own lives; the EU should not interfere in this area.
I also supported the reference to the need to improve the sexual and reproductive health of women both in Europe and globally, and the encouragement that needs to be given to fathers to share family responsibilities, by taking advantage of parental leave, for example.
It is unfortunate that at both Member State and European Union level, little emphasis is placed on combating the extreme poverty and multiple discriminations that afflict women.
We need to harmonise much more closely the Beijing objectives adopted within the framework of the United Nations and the implementation of the new EU roadmap for equality between men and women.
In this European year for combating poverty and social exclusion, it is particularly important that women who are barely above the poverty line should receive suitable protection, since a change in their employment or family situation - such as job loss, divorce, widowhood and even childbirth - means that the danger of impoverishment threatens them exponentially.
in writing. - I voted in favour of paragraph 9 of the resolution on the Beijing +15 UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality, upholding women's sexual and reproductive health and rights.
These rights are enshrined in international law (including Article 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights where States Parties recognise 'the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health' and Article 12 of the Convention for the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women on eliminating 'discrimination against women in the field of health care in order to ensure, on a basis of equality of men and women, access to health care services, including those related to family planning').
in writing. - I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is compulsory to implement gender equality in all fields.
Regarding Romania, these fifteen years, progress has been made only in some of the areas identified in the Beijing Platform for Action.
Male violence against women, human trafficking and women representation in decision-making bodies are priorities we should strongly address.
Not including women in all social and political executive bodies would be wasting 50% of intellectual capacity as well as failing in representing truly the interest of all citizens.
I voted for this resolution because it highlights the progress still to be made by the 189 states that are signatories to the Beijing Platform for Action if real equality between women and men is to be achieved.
I would like to point out in this regard that, when my report on equality between women and men was adopted in 2009, the majority of MEPs supported the view that women had to have easy access to contraception and abortion.
Whilst the ECR Group places great importance on equality between all people, we oppose further legislation at EU level; we believe the gender equality issue is best driven at national level with the involvement of civil society within local communities.
For these reasons, we have voted against the resolution.
According to the resolution of the European Parliament on the draft general budget for the financial year 2010, adopted on 17 December 2009, a vote was taken today on the amending budget for the European Parliament, following the revised calculations made by the Parliamentary administration.
The FDP in the European Parliament abstained, because there was a paragraph in the package of amendments concerned that we could not reconcile with our convictions.
The FDP had already expressed its opposition to an increase in the secretarial allowance to EUR 1 500 during the discussions in committee.
For this reason, the FDP in the European Parliament abstained.
Presented for the first time in the meeting of the Committee on Budgets of 25 January 2010, the Maňka report is characterised by three critical points, which are responsible for my decision to abstain from the vote.
Lastly, I believe that the sum of EUR 1 500 as a monthly allocation for Members' assistants seems inadequate, since the minimum threshold for the appointment of a new level I-accredited assistant is EUR 1 649.
The Treaty of Lisbon means greater powers for Parliament.
This budget makes decisions with cuts to the buildings heading and an increase in technical support for Members, providing the necessary resources for Parliament to perform its duties well, with the scientific and technical backing that is so necessary in the 21st century.
It is within this framework that the problems of operational needs and the harmonisation of expenditure by the European Parliament and the European Union need to be addressed.
According to the resolution of the European Parliament on the draft general budget for the financial year 2010, adopted on 17 December 2009, a vote was taken today on the amending budget for the European Parliament, following the revised calculations made by the Parliamentary administration.
The FDP in the European Parliament abstained, because there was a paragraph in the package of amendments concerned that we could not reconcile with our convictions.
The FDP had already expressed its opposition to an increase in the secretarial allowance to EUR 1 500 during the discussions in committee.
For this reason, the FDP in the European Parliament abstained from voting.
in writing. - I voted for the Maňka Report which is the first step in amending the 2010 European Parliament budget seeking additional budgetary and human resources to enable the European Parliament to fulfil its enhanced role.
It is essential that MEPs have the staff necessary to do this work as required.
This justifies an increase in staff for Parliament's and the groups' secretariats in these committees.
Given the new role of Parliament within the context of the Treaty of Lisbon and its new functions, and in view of the commitment made when the 2010 budget was approved, this increase in funds available for the running of Parliament makes sense, as it ensures that this body has all the material and human resources it needs to fulfil its new tasks in the new institutional framework with accuracy and excellence.
This increase in funds must not, however, jeopardise budgetary sustainability and the accuracy of financial statements, as this is crucial in any institution.
This amending budget for the financial year 2010 relating to Parliament's budget (Section 1 of the general EU budget) now has a value of EUR 1 616 760 399, which represents 19.99% of the initial heading 5, adopted at first reading.
In this amending budget, we have reduced the buildings reserve from EUR 15 million to EUR 11 million.
It is true to say that Greece has not always been as rigorous as it should have been in the management of its public accounts and EU funds.
Nevertheless, I voted in favour of an increase in the parliamentary assistance package because the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon increases the responsibilities of the European Parliament: we have more work and more obligations to fulfil on behalf of our citizens.
I confidently voted for this budget amendment.
However, we need to provide the institution of the European Parliament with the necessary resources to meet European citizens' expectations of this forum.
I voted for the Maňka report, although I did not agree with the budget increase in the secretarial allowance for MEPs.
In her explanation of our vote, Mrs Trüpel, who is the responsible member on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, put it on record on behalf of the whole group that our vote in favour is conditional on there being an evaluation of the secretarial allowance before the increase is put into effect.
I consider both the other points - namely the increase in posts for committees and groups - to be sensible and necessary as a consequence of Parliament's new legislative powers under the Treaty of Lisbon.
I voted against this report as it envisages an increase in the envelope for recruitment of and allowances for assistants by EUR 1 500 per month from 1 May 2010.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has led to the adoption of a proposal to amend the 2010 budget, with a view to meeting the additional needs of Parliament in relation to it.
Given that legislative excellence is a priority for Parliament, I would emphasise the importance of providing the Members, committees and political groups with the necessary means to achieve this objective, along with the means to cover their overall needs in relation to the long-term buildings policy.
Therefore, the amending budget for the financial year of 2010 now has a value of EUR 1 616 760 399, which represents 19.99% of the initial heading 5, adopted at first reading, and the buildings reserve has been reduced from EUR 15 million to EUR 11 million.
I would like to emphasise the importance of the report's inclusion of the establishment of a zero-based budget, which ensures greater budgetary sustainability, and the need for this to be in accordance with the annual legislative programme.
in writing. - The Greens/EFA Group gives conditional support to an increase in the secretarial assistance allowance at this stage of the procedure.
This evaluation should come in time for a decision by the budgetary authority on the corresponding amending budget later in spring.
The group may reconsider its support for the increase in the assistants' allowance in view of the outcome of this evaluation and discussions within our group.
I would really like to endorse the MEPs and, at the same time, express my concern that particularly at the time of the crisis, various allowances to both MEPs and employees in their teams are being increased.
In particular, I would like to draw attention to those categories of expenses which are difficult to monitor or are not monitored at all.
The report supports the EU common fisheries policy which, in the name of protecting fish stocks, has resulted in the destruction of a large number of small fishing boats in Greece and in numerous small and medium-sized fishing enterprises being ousted from the profession, in the condemnation of numerous coastal areas to abandonment and unemployment and in the concentration of activities in the hands of large fishing companies.
I welcome the launch of a new strategy aimed at resolving the issues relating to fishing in the European Union.
It is vital for us to maintain the right balance between economic growth, fishing traditions in certain regional communities and the best fishing practices.
The fishing sector in Europe is experiencing hard times.
The problems of 2002 still remain and they have been aggravated even more by the latest events, linked to the economic crisis and the impact of climate change on fish stocks.
The priorities of the reform of the common fisheries policy must remain the restoration of stocks, sustainable management and securing the subsistence level of fishermen.
Their overcapacity, eight years after the global summit on sustainable development, and the continuing decline in fish stocks, are additional reasons for a far-reaching reform of the common fisheries policy.
As is also mentioned in the report on the reform of the common fisheries policy, this activity is part of the cultural heritage and traditions which no one wants to see lost.
Ensuring sustainable development within this sector is vital, both on an economic and social level, but it is equally necessary to ensure the conservation of good environmental conditions in all EU marine waters.
I voted against the report on the common fisheries policy, despite the fact that it contains a number of elements that represent a positive development compared with the current situation.
I wish to congratulate Mrs Patrão Neves on her excellent report on the reform of the common fisheries policy.
The countless problems and challenges with the CFP were identified back in 2002, but have now been exacerbated by the economic and energy crises and by the damaging effects of climate change.
However, these require appropriate monitoring by national governments, which should make fisheries a strategic priority in order to ensure the economic and social viability of coastal communities.
I believe that plans need to be drawn up for managing and supporting the long-term recovery of fish stocks for all types of fishing and all geographical fishing zones within the European Union.
Europe needs to adopt a strong, joint approach to managing fisheries resources, which will include a continental and market dimension for the sector, as well as a catching sector and aquaculture, in accordance with the European Union's new integrated maritime policy and with its interest in sustainable growth in coastal regions.
I voted in favour of the report on the Green Paper on the reform to the common fisheries policy because it made essential commitments that clearly helped to improve the initial proposal.
I would like to emphasise the importance of introducing an environmental and social approach in seeking new management systems for fisheries resources, which will complement the current system, based on the principle of relative stability.
We Swedish Social Democrats voted against the report on the Green Paper and the reform of the EU fisheries policy.
We are also sceptical about the fact that the European Parliament wants to provide more money for the common fisheries policy - this is something that we do not wish to be involved in, unless the purpose is to make a clear change to the policy.
On the other hand, this reform cannot be isolated from the sustainable use of marine resources in a technical and scientific process of assessment that has been thoroughly checked, and which will contribute to the conciliation of the sector and have a bearing on quality and food security for consumers.
in writing. - I am supportive of extending the coastal limits from 12 to 20 miles as one of the key reforms of the CFP.
It is important to retain the current quota management system and I do not support mandatory privatisation of quotas.
A fundamental and comprehensive reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP) is to be welcomed, particularly with a view to the sustainable management of fish resources.
in writing. - This report is a broad document that covers all the aspects of the CFP, from aquaculture to angling, from the Baltic Sea to fisheries agreements with third world countries.
in writing. - (PT) The common fisheries policy, which was last revised in 2002, is not yet sufficient to weather the vicissitudes of this sensitive sector.
On account of the fact that this motion for a resolution does not sufficiently deal with this issue, I voted against it.
in writing. - I abstained in the final vote on the Neves Patrão report because it contained both positive and negative paragraphs.
The report also declares the CFP to be the dominant policy in the EU, with environment and development policies being subservient to it.
The German members of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe voted differently from the group as a whole on two points.
The first concerns Amendment 3 from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
The FDP members voted against, because a radical devolution of fisheries policy such as proposed in the motion with the transfer of powers and responsibility to Member States and to local decision makers cannot be reconciled with the European common fisheries policy.
FDP members supported Amendment 33 because it supports the important principle of relative stability, which is important for Germans.
The European fishing industry is sailing through troubled waters: fish stocks are plummeting, 400 000 European fishermen and their families are worrying about their future and wondering about the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy (CFP) which, until now, has provided them with a safety net.
Clearly, any reform must take account of the individual features of the various fishing areas and avoid at all costs a one-size-fits-all management model.
in writing. - The Commission's Green Paper on this issue was a damning indictment and an honest recognition that the common fisheries policy has not worked.
Only two weeks ago, this House voted in favour of suspending international trade in bluefin tuna because of the critically low stocks - a situation which is yet another sign that our current levels of fishing are unsustainable and have serious consequences for biodiversity and the future of the fishing sector.
This should lead to better management of stocks and have a positive effect on the marine environment.
It is vital that we act to ensure that the European Union implements a truly sustainable fishing policy in order to protect stocks, the environment, and European jobs in the long term.
Hastings and Rye MP, Mike Foster, has brought to my attention the need for the Marine Fishing Agency and the Commission to end discriminatory and distorting practices, especially in the catching of cod along the UK south coast, and particularly his own constituency Hastings and Rye, which we both represent.
I abstained from the vote on the report on the common fisheries policy as it contains too many points that not only conflict with a number of other points in the report but also run counter to my political perspective on European fisheries policy.
This position is patently at variance with the Treaty of Lisbon, Article 208 of which states that our foreign policy must not undermine the development objectives of poor countries.
The policy proposed by Parliament most certainly benefits Europe, but outside European waters, Europe is championing only its own fishing fleets and not the local fish stocks and fishermen.
That explains our abstention.
The report on the Green Paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, which we adopted today, revises the economic, social and environmental aspects of this policy, with the aim of redefining the approach to resolving the remaining problems within the sector.
This document insists on reforms needed for the fishing industry, and which are enormously important in the outermost regions, particularly Madeira, where this activity is greatly important in local development and in the lives of the local people.
I would like to reiterate the ideas in the report relating to more active participation by the various actors at a national, regional and local level in terms of implementation and the technical measures to be taken within the fisheries sector.
For all the above reasons, I voted in favour of this report, which will mark the beginning of a new stage in the European common fisheries policy.
