Energy performance of buildings (recast) (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by Silvia-Adriana Ţicău, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the Council's position at first reading for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy performance of buildings (recast) (05386/3/2010 - C7-0095/2010 -.
Investments in improving energy efficiency will result not only in lower energy bills, but also in creating 2.7 million jobs in the EU by 2030.
The Commission must identify the existing financial instruments and fiscal measures and table new proposals by 30 June 2011.
All new buildings must have a net energy consumption of close to zero by 31 December 2020, while the majority of energy must also come from renewable sources.
The directive will be reviewed by 1 January 2017.
The recast directive on the energy performance of buildings will also encourage a raising of standards in the national codes on energy efficiency in house building and will help consumers to reduce their utility bills.
This directive also covers small buildings with a useable area of less than 1 000 m² as well as minor energy-relevant renovation work, and also the replacement of boilers and windows.
Thirdly, with effect from 2020, all new builds must meet the extremely stringent near-zero energy building standard.
I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and you, Mrs Ţicău, for your good cooperation in recent months and also for the unusually quick adoption of the directive.
We are currently preparing - as announced previously in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy - the reallocation of at least EUR 150 million of unused funds from the European Economic Recovery Plan for projects in the area of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
We hope that renovation measures will allow us to achieve our goal of a 5% reduction in total energy consumption by 2020.
There is no doubt that we need new training schemes for the tradesmen who will not only be renovating these existing buildings, but also building new ones.
First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mrs Silvia Ţicău, for the immense work she has done in preparing this important report.
The movement towards nearly zero energy cost in buildings means that the bar has been raised even higher for builders than hitherto planned when discussing passive house technologies.
In particular, the dropping of the 1 000 m2 threshold which was proposed initially by Parliament in its report on the Action Plan for Energy Efficiency, and also the step of bringing in near-zero energy buildings by 2021.
Secondly, all Member States need to consider adopting national annual targets for improving a certain percentage of their existing buildings.
Consequently, we would also need an initiative from the Commission for social dialogue at European level between the construction industry and the trade unions.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I would also like to start by thanking Ms Ţicău and the other rapporteurs for the way that this directive has been negotiated.
We all know that, to rise to the challenge of energy saving, it is important that consumers both in the public and private sectors acknowledge and see the benefits which directly engaging with energy-saving initiatives can bring both in environmental and economic terms, but I will give you a warning because there has been an example in my own Member State of gold-plating the directive, particularly in the requirements for energy performance certificates in public buildings, and this has added, in some cases, extra bureaucratic costs with little perceived energy saving and led to a loss of public support; that is regrettable.
Mr President, I would also like to begin by congratulating Mrs Ţicău on all the hard work and dedication she has put into such a significant report, and on the work that she has done towards improving the energy performance of buildings and in support of a more sustainable Europe.
However, I think that will be difficult in some areas. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, the construction sector is responsible for 40% of the EU's energy consumption and 35% of its emissions.
Therefore, European entrepreneurs, in cooperation with the European Union and the Member States, should invest today in technologies which will reduce the large effect that buildings have on the environment, because at the moment, buildings consume around 40% of the European Union's energy, emit 38% of the European Union's CO2 emissions and, in addition to this, the building sector is the most resource-heavy sector of the economy in the European Union.
The European Partnership for Energy and the Environment (EPEE) estimates that between 50 and 125 million Europeans suffer from energy poverty.
However, this new legislation concerns only new buildings and will affect only 2.7 million new homes per year, when there are 200 million old homes in the European Union.
The fact is, at least 150 million homes will have to be renovated by 2050 in order to attain factor 4.
This area, the buildings sector, has great unused potential, not just in the area of energy saving, but in the creation of new jobs and the implementation of new technologies as well.
I wish to draw Commissioner Oettinger's attention to the fact that funding sources must be guaranteed in the budget for the period after 2013 and in the Cohesion Funds.
Without a doubt, it is clear that the majority of buildings and private houses which exist currently will still be there not only in 2020, but in 2050 as well.
Therefore, as has been stated by my fellow Members, we should focus on the houses that are there currently.
It is extremely important, and I also recommend that the plan be implemented. (RO) I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Ţicău, for all her efforts on this report.
The construction sector offers great potential for energy savings.
The fund would, of course, support not only heating for blocks of flats, but also for all buildings in the EU. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008, the EU committed to a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020.
In other areas that we have to address - power stations, the energy mix in general or the automotive sector - there are relatively few players to approach: energy companies or the 12 to 15 car-producing enterprises of Europe.
We want to present it as late as possible in order to know whether there is more than EUR 115 million available, but in good time to ensure that no funds are lost because of time constraints.
In addition, I ask the European Commission to allow the EUR 115 million left over unspent from the European Economic Recovery Plan to be allocated to the Smart Cities Initiative.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 18 May 2010.
The European Union has committed itself to reducing its energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to ensuring that 20% of the energy used will come from renewable energy sources.
The energy used by buildings represents almost one third of the total energy used in the European Union.
For precisely this reason, there is significant potential in this sector for reducing energy use - not only because of obligations undertaken concerning reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, but also because of the question of energy security.
