Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Framework Agreement that we have just adopted considerably improves the role of the European Parliament - a role that has grown thanks to the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
President Barroso, we have given you our confidence, and we expect you for your part to have respect for our greater prerogatives.
We take as a cue the undertakings that you have given in this Chamber, your willingness to institutionalise a regular dialogue on key fundamental questions and on important legislative proposals, and the undertaking you have made to report on the practical follow-up to each legislative initiative request within three months of its adoption.
This is a greater responsibility for the Commission, but also for us, the direct representatives of the citizens of this Europe of ours.
Mr President, all these goals require a greater commitment by all: by the Commission, by Parliament, by national parliaments and by governments.
This is the Europe that citizens demand of us and this is the Europe that we must be able to guarantee them over the next five years. (DE) Mr President, I have voted in favour of the Commission and I am also in favour of the Framework Agreement, which represents an historic step forward.
We need more democracy, not less, because with this additional power comes the need for more democracy within Parliament. (FR) Mr President, no one in this Chamber can really believe that, of the 500 million Europeans, these 27 candidates are the best qualified to become European commissioners.
Let us take, for example, my own country's candidate, Baroness Ashton.
Baroness Ashton and her federalist friends treat us as anti-Europeans.
No true European ... (The President cut off the speaker) (LT) Certainly, I, too, would like to welcome and congratulate the new Commission, the new Members, but I would like to draw attention to some facts that were not debated in either the political groups or the parliamentary sessions, the plenary sessions; the appointment of the Members themselves.
In my political group, I said that at least those candidates who enjoy the support of two thirds of their national parliament should be appointed to the European Commission.
This is precisely where more money needs to be spent, because such imports increase the prices of our services and goods and make it difficult for our business people to compete ... (FR) Mr President, Baroness Ashton and her federalist friends treat us as anti-Europeans.
In addition, cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, on an equal footing and based on trust, is vital if we want to succeed.
Parliament now has full powers of codecision and therefore has equal standing with the Commission and the Council in all areas.
I also hope that support will be provided to tackle the housing crisis faced by our fellow citizens, which often reaches alarming levels, particularly in the great conurbations.
Another reason is the fact that this European Commission continues to argue in favour of the renewed immigration of millions and, in the long term, even tens of millions of new non-European immigrants to a continent which, in any case, already has tens of millions of unemployed people.
The Commission and, above all, its President, has shown itself to be very reluctant to accept Parliament's legislative initiatives.
We Members of Parliament are the only directly elected representatives of the people, and failure to comply with our right of initiative, or at least attempts to flout it - even if, under the new Treaty of Lisbon, this is now sanctioned by Article 255 of the treaties - does not allow for a vote of confidence in Mr Barroso or in his Commissioners.
But, as Members of the European Parliament, we are unable to vote on the individual Commissioners, so we had a choice whether to vote for all of them en bloc or to reject them.
Consensus makes us strong, and I am therefore pleased to see such a positive outcome of the vote on the new Commission.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - Interinstitutional relations between the Parliament and the Commission are moving in a different direction with the Lisbon Treaty.
Until now, only the European Commission was able to initiate European Union legislation, but in the Treaty of Lisbon, it is stipulated that a majority of the European Parliament has the right to create European Union legislation.
In the agreement, Parliament will be granted the right to participate as an observer in certain European Union international talks, as well as the right to obtain more information about international treaties.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on a revised Framework Agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission for the next parliamentary term as it is an important agreement, not only for its symbolic value - given that it gives a clear signal of the commitment of both European institutions, Parliament and the Commission, to work together in pursuit of the European project - but also because of its content, since it identifies the obligations of the parties so that they can better confront the challenges of the future and resolve the problems of the citizenry.
It is essential that Parliament, which is more and more by rights a partner of the Council in the decision-making process, should today merit the same attention from the Commission as it affords to the Council.
Rather than merely smoothing out rough edges, I sincerely hope that the revised Framework Agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission will accelerate procedures, lead to closer cooperation and promote the exchange of information in a swift and efficient manner, allowing the voice of the elected representatives of the Member States to be heard and taken into account in good time.
This is an agreement which reinforces cooperation between the European institutions and which guarantees that the Commission will apply the basic principle of equality of treatment for Parliament and the Council.
For these reasons, it is vital that there should be swift implementation of this Framework Agreement, and it is important to recognise the need for constant evaluation in order to improve the efficiency and efficacy of this institutional relationship.
Parliament, as colegislator, should refrain from trying to acquire ever greater powers at the Commission's expense.
With the Lisbon Treaty now in force, this House has acquired increased powers and our working relationship with the Commission must adapt accordingly.
Whilst I voted today in favour of the new Commission, I object to the all-or-nothing system whereby Parliament must approve or reject the Commission as a whole.
However, now we can finally begin our work together with a fully competent Commission.
The role of the European Parliament was consolidated and strengthened with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and, with the Framework Agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission that was adopted today, the establishment of the European Parliament as an equal partner with the Commission has been duly confirmed, and this is something that I expressly welcome.
With this, we have created a good foundation for future cooperation and we will also insist emphatically on this dialogue as an equal partner.
It will probably also be very much in the interests of the Commission to involve the European Parliament in legislative initiatives at an early stage in order to ensure an efficient process that is in the interests and for the benefit of the people in Europe and of an active democracy.
The motion for a resolution, approved today by an overwhelming majority, reflects the new and extremely important role which the European Parliament is to assume.
For this reason, I have voted against the motion for a resolution.
The Framework Agreement aims to govern the daily relations between Parliament and the Commission in a partnership which is now reinforced and adapted to the new aspects of the Lisbon Treaty, taking as its point of departure the promises made by the recently elected President of the Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, as well as his proposal for a 'Special Partnership between the European Parliament and the Commission'.
The request for an undertaking by the Commission to respond in a short time period to all requests for legislative initiatives is to be welcomed as it reflects the increasing importance of the European Parliament as a colegislator, most specifically in areas such as Regional Policy.
For these reasons, and above all because it reinforces the role of the European Parliament and reinvigorates the European Union, I voted in favour of the motion.
I voted for the European Parliament resolution on a revised Framework Agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission for the next parliamentary term as I consider that this agreement is essential to cooperation between the European Parliament and the future European Commission.
In accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, which establishes a new institutional balance, the European Parliament can ask the Commission to submit legislative proposals, and the latter must submit the relevant legislative proposal within one year of the request being made by Parliament.
The February 2010 plenary session is today witnessing the very start of the institutional cooperation that will continue for the next five years.
Henceforth, the Commission has to report on the practical follow-up to any legislative initiative requests following the adoption of a legislative initiative report pursuant to Article 225 of the TFEU.
If the European Parliament requests it by a simple majority, the Commission must present a legislative proposal within one year or include that proposal in the following year's work programme.
I call on every person of goodwill to observe closely the work done by Parliament, because it is clear that the MEPs will use this provision in particular in the field of universal social ethics.
Furthermore, our ideologies are completely different.
They are internationalists.
As a Portuguese, I cannot fail to express my delight at the fact that the demanding post of President of the Commission has once more been entrusted to my countryman, José Manuel Durão Barroso, a man who previously performed that role with undeniable distinction.
I had the opportunity to question the Commissioner-designate for Regional Policy, Johannes Hahn, with regard to his interest in the creation of a specific programme of permanent financial support for the outermost regions.
I gave my vote of confidence to this team of Commissioners, which will be led by José Manuel Barroso, as in general, they have shown good technical preparation, seriousness and ambition to be able to respond to the challenges of the EU without forgetting the values which underpin its creation, namely solidarity and territorial cohesion.
The S&amp;D Group has decided to support the Commission, because at a time when Europe is plagued by an endless economic and financial crisis and ever increasing unemployment and its citizens are disillusioned with Europe, the European Parliament and Europe in general must not become the place where there is division into camps of position and opposition.
Now, the most important thing is to concentrate on these most important matters on the political agenda, to end the state of uncertainty and instability in Europe as soon as possible and to solve the most acute problems, like the financial crisis and unemployment, more quickly and effectively.
In recent weeks, we have come across some strong, but also some very weak, candidates.
This double-edged feeling is reinforced by the fact that many Commissioners-designate blatantly played up to the European Parliament during the hearings.
Until 2014, Christian-Democrats, liberals and socialists will leave their political and geographical differences aside and work together within a College to serve the European general interest.
The majority of the commissioners represent the liberal stance of the European Union that we reject.
I do not believe that, if it fails to meet these objectives, this Commission can offer a new future to European citizens or secure a place for Europe in the world.
My vote today is an expression of my mistrust and of the political vigilance that I will demonstrate throughout this term of office.
They will promote the Treaty of Lisbon and the EU 2020 strategy, which will strengthen the sovereignty of the markets, increase unemployment and insecure jobs, unravel the social security system and restrict democratic and social rights.
I hope that it will be cohesive and that all its members will be equal to their great responsibilities, at a time when everyone is longing for economic recovery and job creation.
I did so because the new College of Commissioners, on the basis of their experience, has a much greater political capacity and offers guarantees that it will firmly and with determination confront the great challenges facing the European Union: the serious financial crisis which we are experiencing and its terrible social and economic effects, particularly unemployment; security and the fight against terrorism; the strengthening of Europe's role in the world, which means a Europe with an active common foreign and security policy; the fight against climate change; and the competitiveness of our economies in defence of our social model.
The realistic and ambitious programme which José Manuel Barroso has presented and which our Parliament has endorsed can now, finally, be implemented, to the benefit of 500 million European citizens.
In September, the Members from the MoDem party did not vote in favour of Mr Barroso's appointment as President of the Commission, his track record not being such as to recommend his re-election.
For these reasons, the elected representatives of the MoDem party have not put their trust in the Barroso II Commission.
The fact that there were four weeks between the nomination of the Austrian Commissioner, Johannes Hahn, and the allocation of his portfolio is in itself evidence of this.
Despite the EU's reform treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, which is now in force, the European Parliament still cannot elect individual commissioners or express a lack of confidence in them.
The vote today concerns the College of 26 Commissioners.
This was a very significant change of position by the President of the Commission, but it was not sufficient for us to support his candidature.
I hope the Commission will choose better legislation, will always bear in mind the need to properly respect the principle of subsidiarity and will, as a matter of priority, adopt a central policy role in tackling the economic crisis.
In a crucial phase for the recovery of the economy, the experience and versatility of this Commission led by José Manuel Durão Barroso, as well as the manifest commitment, competence and recognition of the great European causes by the Commissioners who were heard in this Parliament, will be decisive in sustaining a united and socially equitable Europe, capable of assuming a leading role in the fight against climate change and reinforcing the competitiveness of our firms by backing scientific research and innovation.
Regarding the new institutional relations created by the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon and in view of the challenges placed in the path of the development of contemporary societies, I believe that, with this Commission, the European Union has strengthened its capacity for intervention in the current economic, social and political framework, not only internally.
We fight for another Europe, of justice and social progress, where economic and social cohesion are a reality and cooperation among states which are sovereign and have equal rights, as well as peace, are central objectives.
By voting in favour of the Barroso II Commission, I do not intend to give it my unconditional political support.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the new College of Commissioners.
The Barroso Commission Mark II will be the first to operate under the Treaty of Lisbon, with the European Parliament enjoying extended powers, making it a more visible and active partner than ever.
The fact that we have successfully achieved this task of changing the College's composition is actually a success for the European Parliament in general and for our political group in particular.
However, I believe that a vote for this College is the most appropriate option at a time when any delay in making this decision could have put the EU in an uncomfortable situation where accusations of inefficiency would have been justified.
What is important is for the new Commission to get down to work as quickly as possible and catch the European Parliament up, which has already been elected for seven months, at least in terms of the work which has been done.
I am astonished by the attitude of the President of the European Commission, who, after serving a five-year term of office and having such large experience in leading the Commission, has proposed such weak candidates.
Quite honestly, I should have voted against the proposed make-up of the Commission, but alongside the weak candidates there were also several very good ones - including the Polish candidate, Janusz Lewandowski.
In spite of my abstention, I wish the entire Commission nothing but success, because this is so important for all Europeans.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the College of Commissioners, expressing my trust in the President of the Commission most of all.
Nevertheless, I find it crucial that the Commission start working in its full mandate and I consider the wide support of the European Parliament in this very important as, in my opinion, the Commission and the European Parliament are the closest allies in shaping the EU's common policies.
in writing. - I share the critics on the procedure of the nomination of the Commission, as explained in the resolution of the Green Group, particularly the lack of transparency, Member States choosing their candidates rather according to domestic political considerations than for their suitability, and the lack of possibility to disapprove to a separate candidate.
Therefore, I abstained on the vote on the new Commission.
The European Parliament will be entitled to be involved in preparing and implementing the Annual Work Programme of the EU.
Finally, the European Commission will undertake to submit a report on its legislative initiatives within three months.
I have therefore voted 'yes' today to the new Barroso Commission.
I hope the new cabinet, with the close cooperation of the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, and with effective control, will show that my vote was right.
I am particularly pleased at the confirmation of Cathy Ashton as High Representative, and am sure that her quiet diplomacy will be of benefit to Europe as a whole.
As a staunch European, and following the adoption of the Framework Agreement between the European Commission and the European Parliament for the next five years, I gave my support to the appointment of the new European Commission, as did the majority of my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
The outcome of the vote is clear: 488 of my fellow Members joined me in endorsing the appointment of the College of the European Commission.
I voted in favour of the Barroso Commission Mark II for two reasons.
The Polish delegation of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament voted in favour of extending a vote of confidence to the new European Commission.
One problem certainly is the fact that, with 27 Commissioners, their portfolios often overlap, which is not a very clear situation.
We welcome the fact that the new Commission will carry out an assessment of the social and economic effects of the financial crisis.
The impression is given that sometimes, the governments of EU Member States send weak or 'undesirable' politicians to Brussels to free up a position in their capitals.
As the majority of Commissioner candidates made a good impression, I voted in favour of the new European Commission.
It will also have to be able to provide the European Union with a foreign and defence policy worthy of that name.
I had the opportunity to question the Commissioner-designate for Regional Policy, Johannes Hahn, with regard to his interest in the creation of a specific programme of permanent financial support for the outermost regions.
As well as displaying competence and rigour, the Commissioner-designate showed he was prepared to examine these possibilities, which gives me confidence in his future willingness and sensitivity towards outermost regions such as Madeira.
I gave my vote of confidence to this team of Commissioners, which will be led by José Manuel Barroso, as in general, they have shown good technical preparation, seriousness and ambition to be able to respond to the challenges of the EU without forgetting the values which underpin its creation, namely solidarity and territorial cohesion.
The members of the European Commission were appointed by the neoliberal and social-democrat governments of the Member States of the EU and the vote of the European Parliament, the sole political criterion for their election being their ability to serve the interests of capital without hindrance.
in writing. - We want a pragmatic European Commission that will push through reform, including deregulation and reductions in EU expenditure, focusing on managerial issues rather than political integration.
I genuinely wish all the members of the European Commission well in their efforts to do an excellent job.
