Report on competition policy 2009 (debate) The first item is the report by Mr Eppink, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary affairs, on the Report on Competition Policy 2009.
Since European competition policy is the exclusive competence of the European Commission, you, Commissioner - or rather Commissioner Almunia, for whom you are standing in - play a decisive role.
I would like to draw your attention to several aspects of competition policy in 2009, of which many features are visible today.
I hope you will clarify this issue on behalf of Commissioner Almunia.
So, Commissioner, I ask you to be attentive to the phenomenon of dowry in the financial sector.
I thank you, Commissioner - and also Commissioner Almunia - for your cooperation, and I also thank the service of DG Competition which, as I know, is one of the best in the Commission.
The Commission welcomes the positive tone of the report and the support expressed for our actions in the field of competition policy in 2009, in particular, in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
However, as Vice-President Almunia announced to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in November, the Commission will analyse the effects on competition of the temporary State aid measures taken in the context of the crisis.
That is why it is so important, Commissioner, to include all the areas that you have mentioned in competition policy.
After all, transport is responsible for 30% of CO2 emissions, which is why I am pleased to see that it has been accepted that transport should be included in the central demands of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The tolls mostly apply only on motorways and only to heavy goods vehicles weighing 12 tonnes or more.
Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this report, which concerns the Commission's work on 'Towards competition' in 2009.
Thank you for your attention.
The report highlights its provisional nature and that its extension must take place under stricter conditions and a level playing field must be re-established for the exit process in order to avoid any moral risks and, above all, so that the financial institutions that have not claimed State aid see their competitive position restored.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur.
The European Parliament should have a much bigger role in shaping competition policies, and I therefore urge the Commission to follow, in particular, recommendations 3 and 4, and really seriously report back to the European Parliament about its recommendations.
You say that you will do one on the temporary State aid framework because that is your priority, but we have been calling for such analyses for years: on green recovery, on State aid to innovation, on State aid to public services.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Commissioner Almunia, who is not here today but who, even though it is not the European Parliament's domain, spends a considerable amount of time with us in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and is therefore investing time in an ongoing dialogue with Parliament on these matters.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur.
So there really is a problem of market distortion in that area, and this does not only relate to special State aid measures established by Member States to help their financial sector, but also, and we emphasised this in the report, various forms of direct aid from the European Central Bank (ECB) that are, I am sorry to say, not very transparent at all.
A market survey on this issue is absolutely vital.
I know that the Commission is beginning to take an interest in this issue once again, but I strongly urge Commissioner Almunia and Commissioner Šemeta to tackle this problem.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, firstly, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Derk Jan Eppink, on his comprehensive and well negotiated report, covering so many topics.
Competition should create a stronger marketplace for EU citizens and allow the EU to be more competitive on a global basis.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to this report, the Commission is following a successful policy on competition.
However, we should not forget that unregulated competition can also lead to an increase in unemployment, so that the gap between the rich and poor grows ever wider.
A fervent belief in free markets cannot mask the fact that these markets not only fail time and time again, but are also incapable of bringing about lasting social justice.
A fair and social internal market will only work with strong and just regulation.
It is also necessary to introduce a contractual clause that favours secure social progress and that is regarded with the same importance as the rules on competition in Europe.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, it is not often that I have any good words to say about Gordon Brown, but he did act swiftly, decisively and effectively to deal with the banking crisis in the UK, even though I must point out that it was largely made worse by his disastrous tenure as Minister of Finance/Chancellor of the Exchequer for ten years.
My distinguished colleague, Professor Tim Congdon, has written a pamphlet on this.
I just want to ask you, Lord Dartmouth, one very simple question.
Thank you for recognising that. (DE) Mr President, I would like to begin by commending you for permitting such dialogue.
The public is still quite unaware that these subsidies as a result of the financial crisis have actually done something quite unimaginable under EU standards.
The second aspect of this issue is pharmaceutical authorisation.
That is why it is important, in the future, that the report on competition should also focus on the lack of implementation of the legislation which is already in place, and also on the lack of competition in the European economy.
That is why we must ensure that state subsidies are always there only in exceptional cases, where nothing else can be done, or when we can channel them in a way that supports the common good without distorting competition.
My second point relates to the commodities sector.
Times have since changed.
That is the only way we will be able to maintain public confidence in the decisions that have been taken.
Perhaps we ought to ask the competition authorities to look into that and see just how the aristocrats have been looking after their land across the European Union for all this time. (PL) Mr President, it is a pleasure to listen to this debate.
The report also talks about the fact that the Commission is fighting protectionism, among others when we talk about the automotive sector, but there are examples - I come from Poland - where the best factory in the Fiat group was closed - perhaps not closed, but production was reduced - and production was transferred to Italy.
It is complex, because the parameters adopted may not necessarily apply across the board to all areas of the economy at such a delicate time.
The Commission's impact assessment quotes a study that SEPA would save EUR 300 billion in the EU economy in six years' time.
I expect that Europe will, in this way, become more competitive in this crucial field in relation to the US and other major economic areas, as Mr Hökmark said previously. (PL) Mr President, the authors of the resolution under discussion rightly observe that the economic crisis was an exceptional challenge for EU competition policy.
National and political interests were repeatedly victorious, not only over the rules of the free market, but also over common sense.
The major economic crisis, the effects of which are still being felt to this day in the countries of Europe, was a significant determinant of competition policy in 2009.
We are having a debate among ourselves, and in particular groups in this Parliament, about what is happening to the agricultural markets and why there is not fair transmission of the final price that we, as consumers, pay for food to those who produce the food.
It is good that we make these annual assessments of competition policy.
It is necessary to improve competition in the markets for medicines and energy.
Next June, Vice-President Almunia will present to you the Report on Competition Policy 2010.
In the meantime, he will keep you informed on the issues you have raised and, in relation to paragraph 4 of Parliament's report, the services of DG COMP will be instructed to respond to you in more detail.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner, who is standing in for his colleague, for being here.
In the banking sector, we have a very strange situation: State aid is on different levels in different countries, in different stages.
I expect that you cannot reply to this issue of a dowry - it is something for the Commissioner - but it would be very unfair to other banks that did not get State aid if some that have been recovered or needed resuscitation suddenly got one.
Thank you, Mr Eppink.
