The answer: benfluorex was discussed in 1998 in the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, now called the Committee for Medical Products for Human Use, of the European Medicines Agency, and subsequently in the Pharmacovigilance Working Party.
In fact, the first time that a Member State effectively took measures to revoke the national marketing authorisation for Mediator was in 2009, when France suspended its national marketing authorisation.
In Spain, it was the marketing authorisation holder, Servier, that withdrew the marketing authorisation in 2003.
Similarly, it was Servier itself that did not request the renewal of the marketing authorisation in 2003 in Italy.
In this case, no action was triggered at EU level in the light of the conclusions of the pharmacovigilance working party and the fact that no divergent decisions were taken at the time by the Member States in response to the discussions in the working party.
The answer: it was only in 2009 that a Member State, namely France, suspended the marketing authorisation of Mediator.
Under the new provisions in place since 2004, this automatically triggered a review of the product's benefit-risk balance, which led to the adoption of a Commission decision requiring all Member States to revoke any national authorisations for benfluorex containing medicinal products.
In this context, it is important to stress that the new pharmacovigilance legislation adopted on 15 December 2010 introduced additional provisions to ensure signal detection by the European Medicines Agency of safety issues for nationally-authorised products and creates new procedures at EU level to assess safety signals for such products, leading to harmonised actions by the Member States.
The answer: to date, the Commission has not asked the European Medicines Agency to conduct a full retrospective investigation into the ways in which this medicinal product was used over 20 years.
You also said that in 1998 and 1999, the working party chose neither to authorise nor propose the withdrawal of this product.
In particular, we need additional alerts that will trigger Europe-wide action, with clear competences for the European Commission and the European Medicines Agency.
I must say that, in 2004, a step forward was taken on revising the pharmacovigilance procedures and processes that we already have, and also in the last pharmacovigilance agreement.
Member of the Commission. - Apple announced today that it will offer digital subscriptions to newspapers and magazines on iPad devices exclusively through applications (Apps) sold via its online store.
Is the Commission taking the initiative going to be a question of weeks or a question of months? (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to thank you for your answer but, in my opinion, you failed to mention an issue of fundamental importance, namely, whether we are capable of imagining at all what portion of the European market could be dominated by Apple's new product.
However, I think that we should know whether there is, in fact, a real threat that Apple will become dominant on the European market.
We need to assess what the market is and what a dominant position means in this market.
Subject: EU support for the Global Fund to fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria In the 2011 budget, considerable amounts have been allocated to the Global Fund to fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) (EUR 65 000 000 in commitment appropriations and EUR 47 608 950 in payment appropriations).
Following this report, my services are currently discussing the needed modifications designed to improve and speed up the Global Fund reform agenda approved on 4 January.
Through a letter dated 27 January 2011 and a teleconference on 2 February, I have already contacted the Executive Director of the Global Fund, Mr Kazatchkine, to express the urgent need for additional reforms to further strengthen the Fund's ground management processes and operations.
In the meantime, during the Board meeting called on 2 February, the Secretariat of the Global Fund proposed an external review to be carried out by the Global Fund oversight mechanism.
So in reply to your question as to whether the Commission has considered halting EU funding to the Global Fund, I would inform you that the Commission has notified the Global Fund Executive Director and the Board members that the EU contributions are being put on hold.
According to published statistics, the European Union earmarked funds of EUR 972.5 million for the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria between 2002 and 2010.
Member of the Commission. - There are two sides to this issue.
Subject: The CE mark Could the Commission outline what progress has been made on strengthening the CE mark in order to promote European exports in markets like South America and Asia, as this was one of the commitments that Commissioner Tajani made upon being appointed to office?
Madam President, Mr Higgins, the CE mark is the visible part of a mechanism that is crucially important for the smooth operation of the internal market.
The adoption of the new legislative framework in 2008 strengthened the mark's reliability in three ways in particular.
It needs a far more concerted effort, as the potential is absolutely huge. (RO) Madam President, since you mentioned the European Union's competitiveness and because I welcome the efforts you are making to develop a European Union industrial policy, I would like to ask you the following: what percentage of products available in the European market carry the CE mark and what percentage of products available in the European internal market are manufactured in China?
As regards assistance to SMEs for exports and investments outside the Union, we launched a huge public consultation exercise at the beginning of last year on our intention to strengthen support measures.
When we say that we should 'think small', we need to make sure that the Member States also apply this test, just as the Commission has begun to.
Does the Commission see a need to draw up a common strategy on equal opportunities, in order to guarantee equal opportunities for men and women working in other European agencies and institutions as well?
We still need to continue with our policy of also improving the figures for our female colleagues in managerial positions and non-managerial posts (AD) in the Commission.
We therefore adopted this strategy from 2010 to 2014, until the end of this Commission's mandate.
In answer to your question, I checked the situation in other institutions and I must say that you are doing quite well in Parliament.
This would be a very good example to the Member States, both to people working in the public and in the private sectors. (RO) Madam President, I would like to expand a little on the question from my colleague and ask the Commissioner whether there is also an equal opportunities strategy.
Member of the Commission. - Thank you very much for your supplementary questions.
I agree with you that the figures you mentioned might not seem as ambitious as you would like them to be in the future, but the truth is that since we started with equal opportunity policies within the Commission in 1995, we have managed to increase the presence of women in top positions fivefold.
Madam President, it is nothing to do with you: you handle it very well.
