Sludge catastrophe in Hungary (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the sludge catastrophe in Hungary.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like first to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims and to all those who are affected by the industrial accident that occurred on 4 October in Ajka, Hungary.
Nine people died and 130 have been injured, about 35 of them first responders.
The Hungarian authorities have deployed massive human resources and equipment.
On 7 October, the Hungarian authorities triggered the civil protection mechanism requesting an EU expert team.
It is very difficult to explain to citizens in Member States why we can help people in Pakistan immediately, but we cannot help the people living in the Ajka area.
The Commission is of the view that the focus must not be on new legislation but on ensuring the proper implementation and enforcement of existing legislation by all Member States.
This is even more justified in view of what we have heard from Mrs Georgieva, that we have used only 10% of this fund in the past 10 years.
Today's debate must also provide answers to five technical safety issues related to long-term environmental protection.
Secondly, industrial units which do not store red sludge appropriately should be included in the category of hazardous industrial plants.
I do not believe that such an investigation can be carried out by the Hungarian authorities alone.
We have already debated the subject in Parliament, and we adopted a resolution on it on 20 November 2008.
We urgently need sound environmental inspection throughout Europe and, in particular, proper implementation of the environmental directives.
Commissioner, I have listened to you carefully, and what I heard made me want to say that up until now, it seems to me that the most effective action, whether by the national or the European authorities, has been to ensure silence.
I would like to begin by expressing profound sympathy with our Hungarian friends in connection with the major accident which struck the inhabitants of the villages of Kolontár and Devecser on Monday, 4 October, when they were suddenly inundated by a huge wave of chemical sludge from a reservoir in a nearby factory.
It seems that the depositing of industrial or mining waste in dumps is not a good solution for society or for the environment.
This reminds me of Thomas Friedman, the New York Times columnist, who said in his editorial of 4 September that credit is a drug, banks are drug dealers, and the central bank is the Godfather.
Here again, I am looking in the direction of the Commission, which ought to examine whether we should introduce insurance solutions in order to be able to provide appropriate compensation to people who have suffered damage. (SV) This is a terrible catastrophe to have hit Hungary and I have a great deal of sympathy for the people who have been affected.
The European Commission is the only body in a position to request this information, in order to be able to stop this environmental disaster from spreading to the other Member States bordering the Danube and take immediate action to combat the effects of this disaster where this has already happened.
We must determine who was responsible and these people must be named and shamed.
We need to keep funds in readiness for these events and not for incidents such as the one that has just occurred in Hungary.
An environmental disaster in Hungary has attracted everyone's attention in Europe and, if one thing is clear - you have heard it here already - then that is that supervision of maintenance and the maintenance itself are essential, not least in the case of older installations and industries from times gone by.
Europe's environmental and raw materials plans are very ambitious.
We cannot afford to wait until 2012 for this to come into force.
This case also demonstrates that the Commission should be given more means to ensure correct implementation of environmental law, especially in Central and Eastern Europe.
This is why I am unsure that the use of the EU Solidarity Fund for natural disasters would be appropriate, as it may undermine this principle at the core of the Environmental Liability Directive. (FI) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to say two things.
It is hardly satisfactory for us simply to rely on the information supplied by the Hungarian authorities, with respect to what this red sludge actually contains, for example.
We should note that the pink sludge of the type which caused the accident in Kolontár is not classified as hazardous waste. (SK) I believe that everyone in Europe was shocked by the environmental disaster that occurred in Hungary two weeks ago and I would like to express in this place my solidarity and my sincere sympathy to the families of the survivors, and also on behalf of the citizens of the Slovak Republic.
To link the death of people and the disaster in Hungary with the language law in Slovakia is totally ridiculous. (EL) Madam President, I should like to send a message of solidarity to the citizens of Hungary.
Finally, we must review the directive on soil, it must stop being 'blocked' at Council level, and we must undertake to decontaminate the soil and to find out who is responsible for it. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, I think this disaster demonstrates quite clearly once again how important European legislation is, as well as the implementation and monitoring of this legislation.
The first is that it was Mrs Morvai herself who tastefully responded in this assembly to what other Members were saying.
I wish to express my solidarity with the population affected by the environmental disaster which occurred in Hungary at the start of this month.
Although different, both disasters have something in common - they both could have been avoided or could at least have been smaller in scale if environmental protection had been given more consideration.
The ecological disaster which has occurred in Hungary has moved us all by its extent and by its exceptionally tragic effects.
We have other legislative documents, such as the CLP Regulation of 2008 on substances and mixtures and the Globally Harmonised System, which classifies substances and mixtures according to the hazards with which they are associated.
I wish to express my regret at the loss of human life resulting from the industrial waste spill which occurred in Hungary.
However, in the case of industrial waste which is potentially harmful to human life and the environment, we have rules in the European Union for this.
Unfortunately, we can see that these rules are not complied with in every Member State.
This is why I am suggesting to the Commission to propose as its objective to inspect the quality of the national institutions entrusted with enforcing EU regulations on the storage of potentially hazardous industrial waste.
This inspection must be carried out as a priority in Member States admitted to the EU in 2004 and 2007.
