Territorial, social and economic cohesion - Good governance and EU regional policy (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mr Petru Constantin Luhan, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on territorial, social and economic cohesion ; and by Mrs Ramona Nicole Mănescu, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on good governance and EU regional policy .
Mr President, we have intended with this report to answer the question raised in the title, which is whether establishing economic, social and territorial cohesion is an absolute prerequisite for global competitiveness in the European Union, with a particular focus on the role played by the cohesion policy in this respect.
The cohesion policy's role in the EU 2020 strategy is unarguable.
In terms of increasing the European Union's global competitiveness, I think that part of the funds allocated to the cohesion policy should be used to establish and maintain Europe's role as global leader in the sectors where it already enjoys a competitive edge and in the sectors where there is potential for it to become global leader.
Mr President, the current global crisis has highlighted once again how important good governance is at every level, as well as the need to have local and regional authorities constantly involved, as equal partners, in devising and implementing EU policies and strategies, especially as they enforce almost 70% of EU legislation.
The cohesion policy plays a vital role in the application of multi-level governance.
Given the considerable impact this has in achieving territorial cohesion in Europe, the principle of multi-level governance should become compulsory for all Member States.
Therefore, adopting the local development methodology based on local partnerships is the solution available to Member States for enhancing the role of local and regional authorities in the management and implementation of European programmes, especially those relating to urban, rural and cross-border development.
The simplification of regulations at EU and national level, not only as a consequence of the economic crisis but also as a general principle of the future cohesion policy, is a prerequisite for better governance in applying the cohesion policy, as it is the only way we will be able to encourage prospective beneficiaries.
Finally, I want to mention the good cooperation I have enjoyed with the Commission's representatives during the consultations, as well as the receptiveness and support they have shown in giving effective backing to the measures featuring in this report, which is a further guarantee that these measures will eventually be adopted by the Commission.
It is important that we constantly view regional policy in particular as an investment policy - as a policy of investing in regions, in people, in Europeans.
However, what we need to do - and here you are both absolutely right - is to improve our strategy further in the future, so that in addition to the controls that will continue to be necessary in the future - in other words, alongside correct financial conduct - we focus much more on a results-orientated assessment of our work.
For me, it is a key issue and provides us with information as to how we can improve living standards in the regions further, which is our task, in order to ensure that people have prospects in the regions in which they were born.
The matter of partnership - of cooperation - is very important, as was mentioned in particular in Mrs Mănescu's report.
Yes, it is important to develop multi-level governance.
The Treaty of Lisbon allows territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process, which is an important step towards genuine multi-level governance.
This must play a key role not only in the forthcoming programming period, but also in every phase of devising and implementing the Europe 2020 strategy.
The Mănescu report, which was voted for unanimously in the Committee on Regional Development, wishes to focus on the competences and role of regional and local authorities in the process of implementing the cohesion policy.
The report stresses that the multi-level approach must be applied horizontally in all EU policies.
It should be based on a bottom-up approach, taking into account the diversity of the administrative systems currently operating in Member States.
The role of local and regional authorities must expand by adopting a local development methodology based on regional partnerships, especially for projects relating to urban, rural and cross-border aspects.
Mr President, Commissioner, first I wish to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work.
It is through cohesion policy that we can also respond vigorously to the goals of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Mrs Mǎnescu's report also gets to grips with a very important key question in cohesion policy, namely, how to establish such a policy which is good and which takes every level into consideration.
In my opinion, Mrs Mǎnescu's report also does an excellent job of addressing these issues.
For example, he mentions 246 operational programmes in research and development and is proud of these, but without questioning what they are about.
The reports and plans of the political representatives of capital for future cohesion policy serve the contemporary needs of business groups, faster capitalist restructurings through the anti-grassroots EU 2020 strategy and the savage attack on the labour, insurance and social rights of the working classes.
Prioritising the regions and granting them direct economic support could even trigger the beginning of a new era for the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin. (PL) Mr President, there are few European political strategies that give rise to so much emotion and controversy.
This should be compulsory so that the European Commission can unambiguously assign to each Member State responsibility for implementing its part of cohesion policy. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by congratulating and thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Mănescu, for her excellent collaboration and for the fact that she was prepared throughout to discuss and take account of proposals made by fellow Members in connection with the contents of the report.
I also welcome the call for simpler rules and greater technical assistance for local authorities on the part of the European Commission as factors that will guarantee greater participation by potential beneficiaries in programmes and in taking up funds in a viable manner.
And all of these are operating techniques enshrined in the new policy for the Danubian macro-region.
I believe that these principles and operating methods should form the basis of the cohesion policy during the next programme period, and include a results-oriented local policy through the macro-regions. (DE) Mr President, I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur on good governance; in particular, I want to express my thanks for her positive cooperation and to congratulate her on this excellent report.
Our aim is regional development and the involvement of the local and regional levels, of the economic and social partners, and of civil society. (PT) Mr President, this debate is taking place at an opportune time in that the economic, social and territorial disparities within the European Union are being exacerbated in a way that is worrying: the inequality that exists between countries and regions and those within each country are getting worse.
Supporting production and developing the productive capacities of each country and region, taking full advantage of the local potential that each has through the sustainable use of its resources, preserving the environment and creating jobs with rights, as well as strengthening social security schemes and public services, are strategically essential to effective economic, social and territorial cohesion. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Mănescu's report.
The Commission is promoting initiatives in favour of regional and local authorities.
There must be a greater incentive to support such proposals in order to ensure the real coordination and effective implementation of European programmes.
Cooperation at regional level must be transparent and must ensure fair representation of all concerned.
Cohesion policy projects make European action directly visible to our citizens: in infrastructure projects, in social projects, in support for research, innovation, in the maintenance of competitiveness and employment in the regions.
In the current debate on the future of the European Union, alongside the debates on currency and finances, we should be debating with the same intensity on what the European Union needs to ensure its internal cohesion, so that countries and regions do not drift apart economically, socially or politically.
However, I also feel it is necessary to make the funding more conditional and more focused on central European initiatives, whether in the transport sector, in the energy sector, in regional and urban development, or in research and innovation.
In this regard, I thank Mr Luhan for having accepted my amendment aimed at reiterating the possibility of introducing advantageous tax provisions for transitional periods of no more than five years - a possibility already contained in the resolution which was voted on by this Parliament in February 2006.
I believe that this report is important because it provides all of us with a clear strategy for responding exhaustively to the problem contained in the title of the report.
Another aspect that I consider crucial is seeking a more simple architecture for the funds after 2013, not as a result of the economic crisis but rather as a general principle for future cohesion policy, so as to facilitate the absorption of the funds.
Only in this way will we see a reduction in the starkly contrasting disparities that exist today within the European Union, and where there is currently a huge gap between rich and poor regions.
Although the conclusions on the Fifth Cohesion Report already indicate the Commission's initial ideas on the subject, Mr Luhan's report is an important contribution to determining Parliament's position in respect of the Commission.
In my opinion, too little weight is being given to Objective 3 in the current debate on the future of cohesion policy.
In particular, cooperation between the regions situated at the former external borders of the EU - and I am referring here to my home region of Saxony - needs to be developed far more. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the data provided by the Court of Auditors in the 2006 and 2008 annual reports on the control systems in operation for cohesion policy are certainly alarming.
As a horizontal policy, it should set out the directions to be taken by sectoral policies, and contribute to an increase in the competitiveness of European regions and a strengthening of the European Union's position on global markets.
I managed a region with 2 200 000 inhabitants for two terms of office, and I was responsible for implementing cohesion policy instruments on the basis of both a centralised model, between 2004 and 2006, and a decentralised model - the regional operational programme - between 2007 and 2013.
This is not right, Commissioner, and I should like to hear your reply. (LV) Mr President, I should like to draw the attention of this House to social cohesion.
The first is that the European Union only makes sense to people if it tries to alleviate economic, social and territorial disparities.
I firmly believe that the creation of a real partnership with regional and local bodies requires a clearer definition of the so-called principle of partnership, as well as the active involvement of local and regional bodies in consultations on the regional policy of the European Union.
All in all, one thing has become clear: we will only be able to achieve our objectives if we in fact have a regional policy that reaches all the regions of Europe.
As has also been said today, if we want to implement the EU 2020 strategy, we will only be able to do so if we can transport and implement this policy in all the regions, but taking into consideration the needs and requirements that exist locally.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all my fellow Members who made a significant contribution to this report and, ultimately, to the cohesion policy and its future.
Given that the vote taken within the Committee on Regional Development recorded a broad consensus among the political groups on the need to implement the principles and measures proposed in this report, I cannot help but be pleased that today's debate has also been in the same vein.
I mention this, especially as in the coming months, the European Union will have to define and adapt its future cohesion policy and 2020 strategy, as well as the conditions for their successful implementation.
The measures for each Member State must differ, because their needs differ.
In connection with the report, I would like to draw attention to two points.
As regards the connection between the implementation of the EU 2020 strategy and improved competitiveness, it is important to point out that cohesion and increased competitiveness are processes that presuppose and even strengthen each other.
The report on the proper administration of regional policy will strengthen the powers of regional and local bodies in implementing EU policies.
There is insufficient supervision by the European Commission, and it is clear that the Commission cannot set up a control system at all national levels.
It is essential for the monitoring role of the Commission to be retained and supported at the start of programmes, but more could be transferred to Member States and their regional and local bodies during the programmes.
I want to emphasise that the existing distribution criterion for EU cohesion policy support - GDP by purchasing power parity per capita (up to 75% of the EU average) - is an appropriate, tested and safe criterion for defining the arc of regions qualifying for support within the convergence framework, because it reflects the genuine disparities between EU Member States and regions.
The sad thing is that the governments of many EU Member States do not understand the role and importance of the regions - the local authorities - well enough, as they are afraid of losing their power to the regions.
It is true that there are now many regions of Europe which have obtained major political support through the European Committee of the Regions, the European Court of Justice and the Commission in cases where the Member States' governments have ignored the rights of local authorities.
I believe that an effective European cohesion policy and the fulfilment of the objectives set out in the directive will help to ensure the viability of the regions, but viable regions will increase the viability of the European Union as a whole and, at the same time, this will help prevent the marginalisation of border regions.
The next area is the unequal treatment of regions that oscillate between Objective 1 and Objective 2.
It is time we established a transitional mechanism that gives equal treatment to all regions with GDP between 75% and 90% of the EU average.
However, European regional policy must cover all the regions, while being sufficiently flexible to take into account regional and territorial differences.
If we are to exploit fully the potential for growth of the regions and achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion in the European Union, it is essential that particular attention is paid to competitiveness.
In particular, research and innovation should play an important part in all the regions as a means of improving the EU's competitiveness, which is why it is necessary to continue to promote these areas in the future.
Although the EU 2020 objectives are defined at Community level, it is vital that the local and regional authorities are involved more in their implementation; a bottom-up approach is essential if we are to implement the economic objectives of the EU 2020 strategy efficiently.
Cohesion policy must continue to be a key EU policy after 2013, with sufficient funding and with the following conditions: simplification of procedures for assigning resources from the structural funds, creation of a framework for public-private partnership, infrastructure established as a basic precondition for increasing global competitiveness, partnership as a condition for developing real partnerships with regional and local bodies and civil society and as a means to effectiveness, legality and transparency at the stage of programming and making use of structural funds, and the application of multi-level management, both on a vertical and horizontal level.
As a result of the cofinancing of investment at local level, they have become an effective symbol of a European cooperation which has risen above national interests.
This is why it has become so important to increase Union funds for cohesion policy in the Financial Framework for 2013-2020, to maintain convergence as a primary objective, and to maintain the current mechanism for selecting beneficiaries based on GDP levels in different regions.
