Recent attacks on religious minorities in Egypt and in Malaysia The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the recent attacks against religious minorities in Egypt and Malaysia.
Yet state emergency laws have been in place in Egypt for the past 28 years.
It is therefore very difficult to understand or accept that around 30 activists, politicians and bloggers were arrested by government forces while travelling to the southern Egyptian town of Nag Hammadi to express their condolences to the families of those killed during the sectarian violence.
The arrests are a particularly striking example of what has become a pattern of the Egyptian Government's interference in citizens' rights to freedom of expression.
The Egyptian Government should lead its citizens on this road to freedom, and Europe should be its strongest partner in this.
It is therefore not an identity crusade or an attempt to cause problems for this or that government, but a denunciation of the fact that, in today's world, people are dying because they believe in Christ or are being discriminated against because their faith is different from someone else's.
All over the world, too, non-religious men and women are being killed or imprisoned because they do not respect the rites, dogmas or religious practices from which they have freed themselves.
First, Christians have become the victims of brutal violence in many countries of the world, not just two.
Second, Christians have become the single most persecuted religious group in the world.
We must insist that human rights defenders in other situations are not imprisoned or treated unjustly.
In this case, it is an undeniable fact that these 33 defenders of the Copts were treated inhumanely in prison.
Unfortunately, what we are seeing is that Christians have a particularly hard time in many countries where the faith of Islam dominates.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, all who are committed to democratic rights and freedom of religious expression will condemn outright the murder of Christians in Egypt and also the firebomb attacks on Christian churches in Malaysia.
We should also note the growing numbers of attacks on religious minorities in Europe itself and equally condemn that.
The best background for religious freedom and democracy in Egypt and Malaysia and elsewhere is, indeed, economic justice and democracy, where wealth and power are in the hands of the big majority of working people and the poor and removed from major corporations and crony capitalists. (NL) Mr President, yesterday, a terrible political trial began in the Netherlands against the leader of our party, Geert Wilders.
Mr President, the barbaric acts that have taken place in Malaysia, Egypt and in many other places around the world, as just this week in Nigeria, are the result of the intolerant and fascist ideology known as Islam.
Violence perpetrated because of the beliefs of the victim is abominable and there is no doubt that it deserves our criticism. (PL) Mr President, religious freedom is a right which has been acknowledged in international and European conventions on human rights for over 50 years.
The Coptic minority makes up 10% of Egypt's population, but even if it were only 0.5%, the role of the European Parliament is to react, especially in a situation in which human rights are being violated so drastically.
The Copts have been persecuted in Egypt for many years.
Let us try, this time, to ensure that our help for this oppressed minority does not end with empty declarations. (PL) Mr President, it is not only Egypt, and it is not only Malaysia, but also Sudan, Nigeria and many other countries in Africa, many countries in Asia and many societies which treat Christians as a necessary evil, and sometimes as an enemy.
We cannot allow a situation in which we defend some religious minorities but defend others less or not at all. (FI) Mr President, we have heard worrying news from a number of sources about crimes against Christians in Egypt and Malaysia.
With regard to Malaysia, I would first of all like to say that we are deeply concerned about the attacks on churches in what has traditionally been a tolerant and moderate country.
Knowing that the Coptic Christian community, who are considered native Egyptians, have, for over 1 500 years, often been subjected to cruel oppression, the European Union must step up in its defence even more forcefully and unambiguously than it is doing at present. (SK) Thank you for bringing attention again to the breaches of religious freedom in certain countries, just like back in 2007 and 2008.
The Copts, who represent one of the oldest Christian churches in the world, have a large diaspora in London, which I represent.
Christians who have lived in countries such as Egypt and in the Mediterranean area for almost 2 000 years are increasingly being persecuted and driven out of their ancestral homelands.
We are aware of difficulties encountered by several Christian converts, such as Maher El-Gohary and Mohammed Hegazy, in Egyptian courts.
The government, as well as the opposition, including the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party and 130 Muslim NGOs, have all strongly condemned those attacks.
The government has increased security measures to safeguard all places of worship and has also reconfirmed its commitment to protect Malaysia's social and religious harmony and a culture of religious and ethnic diversity.
The Malaysian Federal Constitution states that Islam is the religion of the Federation but other religions may be practised in peace and in harmony in any part of the Federation.
We strongly condemn all acts of intolerance against any person because of his religion of belief wherever they occur.
To claim that the Muslim God is only Muslim and can therefore be invoked only by Muslims, using a traditionally Muslim name, means returning to the ancestral and tribal view that there is a God for each group of human beings.
The Egyptian and Malaysian authorities must guarantee Christians and members of other communities and religious minorities the possibility to enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms, or face sanctions from the European Union.
First, we must emphasise that the European Union, as a community of European States that have reached a high level of democracy and the rule of law, must not, in the spirit of religious tolerance, human and minority rights, pass over such events in silence, regardless of where in the world they may occur.
