European statistics on tourism (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Brian Simpson, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, concerning European statistics on tourism - C7-0085/2010 - (Α7-0329/2010).
The Commission's proposal on tourism statistics has given us a good opportunity to revise the existing legal framework on the collection of statistical data on tourism in Europe.
This is especially relevant at this time, when all eyes are on developing a strategy for European tourism policy on the back of the new EU competences in this field.
For these reasons, the approach that I took, supported by our shadows, in formulating Parliament's position, was to strongly support the aim of improving the completeness, relevance and comparability of the statistics on offer in this field, bringing the statistics more up to date with new trends in the tourism sector to reflect, for instance, the increase in Internet bookings and in short-stay trips.
The purpose of the proposal from the Commission was to update and optimise the existing legal framework for European statistics on tourism.
Following an informal trialogue held on 12 January 2011 and further discussions, as you mentioned, rapporteur, a compromise text was agreed between Parliament and the Council.
Although it is technical, it describes tourism, which really is a very important economic objective for us in Europe.
More than 500 000 accommodation establishments are involved in rural tourism and agritourism, offering more than 6 million beds.
The focus must therefore be on diversity. (PL) Mr President, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the European Parliament very rarely concerns itself with matters relating to tourism.
Europe has a lot to offer visitors, be they from outside or from inside the European Union.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 6 April 2011.
Consequently, it is necessary to update and optimise the legal framework for European statistics on tourism, and we should strengthen the EU tourism sector through specific proposals and initiatives that would complement Member State programmes.
in writing. - It is appropriate that we will vote on a report on tourism on 6 April, which is known as Tartan Day.
