Governance and partnership in the single market - Single market for Europeans - Single market for enterprises and growth - Public procurement (debate) The first item is the joint debate on the Single Market, and will include a discussion of the following material: the report by Mrs Kalniete, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on governance and partnership in the Single Market [2010/2289 (INI)], the report by Mr Correia De Campos on a Single Market for Europeans [2010/2278 (INI)], the report by Mr Buşoi on a Single Market for enterprises and growth [2010/2277 (INI)] and the Commission statement on public procurement.
The first to speak will be Mrs Kalniete.
The President of the Commission must, in association with the President of the Council, take responsibility for consolidation of the Single Market.
That is why, in this resolution, we call upon the President of the Commission and the leaders of the Member States to take part in and assume responsibility for introducing the legislation and changes in policy that the Single Market requires.
The fourth direction is the greater involvement of social groups in policy formation and implementation in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and coordinators for their contribution and the business-like collaboration that ensued, which, as I hope, will enable us today to adopt resolutions on the Single Market with a convincing majority, and to continue the work of recent years on the development of legislation that will truly consolidate the Single Market and make it the instrument for creating growth and jobs in Europe.
rapporteur. - (PT) Mr President, Mr Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has responded to the Commission's request concerning the measures needed to revitalise the Single Market by means of the report that we are debating and voting on today.
From the set of 19 proposals relating to the Single Market Act for Europeans, for which I have been rapporteur, we have identified five priorities, using tangibility and feasibility in the short term as criteria.
We also acknowledge that the proliferation of Commission initiatives on this subject, together with Europe 2020, the industrial policy and the Europe of innovation, runs the risk of blurring the central issue of revitalisation, which is to make the idea of the Single Market not only more friendly but also more appealing to Europeans.
I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs Róża Gräfin von Thun, Jürgen Creutzmann, Malcolm Harbour, Emilie Turunen and Kyriacos Triantaphyllides, as well as the group coordinators, for the productive criticism and spirit of cooperation that enabled the negotiations to reach a positive outcome.
The Commission has set out for us an ambitious and, at the same time, practical and much-needed programme for restoring strength to the internal market.
If we want innovation, we also need to come up with a solution for financing it, such as long-term investment and a framework that would make it easier for venture capital funds to be invested effectively.
The fourth priority aims to make the Single Market a better environment for SMEs, given their importance for economic growth and their job creation potential.
That is what is really at the heart of our work, and I would like to personally thank our three rapporteurs who have just spoken: Mrs Kalniete, Mr Correia de Campos and, a moment ago, Mr Buşoi.
Following on from the Monti report and the Grech report, President Barroso asked me to work with 12 of my colleagues, as a joint task within the college, on reviving the internal market and on the structural reforms that will be required so that the two, three or four points of growth which the market contains can emerge.
We then spent time in our discussions to choose from those proposals the ones that will be most effective in improving life for businesses and citizens.
On Wednesday of next week therefore, the college will debate the Single Market Act in the wake of these discussions, before taking action and in the light of your deliberation and debates today.
On 24 and 25 March, the European Council welcomed this action we have taken and the action it has taken itself in terms of joint legislation.
Deliverable means that the Commission will table it and that Parliament and the Council will be able to vote on it and adopt it in 2011 and 2012.
Mr President, that is all I am able to say on this matter.
The first project is the general revision of the 2004 directives aimed at guaranteeing best use of public funds, enabling as many businesses as possible to participate in public procurement contracts and ensuring that high quality products and services can be purchased with less red tape.
Secondly, I would like to make access to public contracts easier, especially in terms of cross-border participation by small and medium-sized enterprises.
For my part, I am convinced, in listening to everyone, that if we set our goals carefully, we will be able to avoid misunderstandings.
Together with Mr Tajani, I will organise a conference on this issue of the European defence industry market at the Brussels Parliament buildings on 23 May.
That is why this year, with my colleague, Mr De Gucht, we are planning to table legislation that will transpose our international obligations on public procurement contracts into EU law, and this will give us the lever for negotiation that we need.
As you and your Parliament requested of me, Mr President, I wanted to take the opportunity of this debate on reviving the internal market to bring up this important area which will, moreover, constitute one of the 12 levers for reviving the Single Market that I referred to at the beginning of my speech, namely, that of public procurement and the modernisation that we are going to propose in agreement with you in the next few weeks.
As you, too, know, and the Commissioner has also pointed out, at its meeting on 10 March, the Competitiveness Council exchanged views on the outcome of the social consultation focusing on the criteria defining the prioritised commitment areas of the institutions and Member States.
Based on this debate, the Hungarian Presidency is preparing to adopt conclusions on the proposed priority measures at the meeting of the Competitiveness Council on 30 May.
The agenda for this is set by the President of the European Council, but I would like to remind everyone that the European Council's conclusions of 24 and 25 March also referred to the importance of the Single Market.
The Presidency would like to express its gratitude to Parliament for consistently supporting the Competitiveness Council in drafting specific measures regarding the creation of a unitary patent system.
Through the mobility of citizens and, in particular, the recognition of professional qualifications, we can consider further issues concerning European citizens.
For this reason, we agree with the statement that our priority task in this area is to take increased EU action and achieve immediate, tangible results.
The Presidency has also found that almost all the reports reviewed, including the earlier Grech report and the Correia De Campos report as well, lay particular emphasis on guaranteeing the exercising of internal market rights for EU citizens.
Ladies and gentlemen, these five speeches - three on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, the Commissioner's speech and that of Mrs Győri - have started a great debate, one which is very important for the future of the European Union and its citizens, and also for our rapid development.
It was the IMCO Committee, too, which came up with the idea of Mario Monti's report - an excellent report which is of great help to us in our work.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Barnier for an excellent and very broad-ranging presentation of the European Commission's proposals in response to our reports.
The consolidation of the Single Market is one of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy based on growth.
The challenge for companies, for our companies, in the international market is to generate high expectations and major opportunities, but they also bear social responsibility: social growth with guarantees for workers and public services.
It will be these paths that lead us to the point where the Europe 2020 strategy can, in fact, go beyond being a paper initiative and become reality, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the major employers in the European economy, supporting businesses in general, and creating an idea of sustained growth in the economy, which can be based more and more on the internal market, on economic governance that actually works and, essentially, on an idea of real growth for our economy.
Mr President, Mr Barnier, I would like to respond to my fellow Member's remarks.
On the other hand, we also need to take specific measures which will increase citizens' trust in the internal market.
This will make it easier to work in another Member State and will create more mobility for citizens within the European internal market.
Mr President, it is up to us to ensure these goals if we are to get out of the crisis and promote a new model of development, sustainable growth and new quality jobs.
Mr President, we will not achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, neither will we make the economy more innovative and competitive, if we do not treat the Single Market holistically.
So I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his very comprehensive approach to the Single Market and Professor Mario Monti for that superb report.
There is a lot to be done on that score, and I think that we need to invest in that and that we ought to consult our communication advisers on how we can best achieve that.
In each Member State, we have three representatives whose hands are ultimately tied, because they work for official organisations.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and the Council for this morning's introduction.
However, Mr President, we have so many aims, but have so far achieved so few results.
I believe that all these objectives are contained in the measures included in these three reports. (The debate was interrupted for a few moments)
