In this resolution, which I feel is balanced, Parliament welcomes this initiative, but issues a request to go beyond the temporary measures intended to stabilise the euro area.
in writing. - (LT) Today we voted in favour of the amendment of Article 136 of the Lisbon Treaty, which will enable the EU to establish a stability mechanism which is only intended for members of the euro area.
I believe that this mechanism will ensure greater financial stability for the euro area and will speed up the economic recovery of euro area Member States.
However, countries not in the euro club, which were worst affected by the crisis, remain in the sidelines, and the road to more rapid and sustainable economic recovery will be blocked.
in writing. - (BG) As a representative of Bulgaria in the European Parliament, I voted against the draft decision because I think that it imposes double standards, which is something I strongly oppose.
in writing. - (CS) The introduction of the stability mechanism for states paying in euro marks the first use of the simplified revision option in the Lisbon Treaty.
This amendment to the Treaty paves the way for stepping up austerity measures and 'tops off' a package of 'supervisory' measures which includes the economic governance package and the European semester.
At the same time, a global package of measures is required which will aim to achieve economic stability and boost competitiveness in the EU.
I believe that the ordinary Treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the treaties, for example a social progress clause.
Finally, I urge the Member States to enable referenda in all Member States on proposals for Treaty change.
in writing. - I welcome today's vote in the European Parliament on the proposed Treaty change.
Parliament supports the limited amendment of the Treaty on European Union to allow for the implementation of a permanent stability mechanism for the euro area, which should be formally established during the European Council meetings of 24 and 25 March, by the amendment of Article 136 of the Treaty.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report to amend the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with regard to a stability mechanism for Member States whose currency is the euro, as it is essential to stabilising the euro area in the long term, to limiting speculation against European countries and to protecting the public.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats support this report as a whole.
While I advocate legislative stability, it is because we are living through exceptional times that I support the currently proposed amendment of Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to such an extent as to enable the creation of a permanent mechanism to safeguard the stability of the euro area, as proposed in report, adopted by this Chamber on 20 October 2010.
I hope that the strengthening of the Stability and Growth Pact, the European Semester, the Europe 2020 Strategy and the amendment of Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with regard to a stability mechanism will result in sustainable economic growth.
This mechanism constitutes an important part of a global package of measures aimed at defining a new framework in order to reinforce budgetary discipline and the coordination of Member States' economic and financial policies, which should include the promotion of a joint European response to growth challenges, concomitantly overcoming economic and social imbalances and improving competitiveness.
There is no longer any doubt that they are intending to create a veritable straightjacket for the Member States, so that they may implement the strategy of deepening... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) We are against the entire process involving the announced amendment of the Treaty of Lisbon, as regards not just to its substance, but also to its form.
This report is along the same lines, tabling certain proposed amendments to the Commission's draft of the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with regard to a stability mechanism for Member States whose currency is the euro.
However, it always aims to consolidate the desired boost provided as part of the aforementioned economic governance, with the creation of the 'European Semester', the deepening of penalties... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) According to legal opinion, a limited amendment to the Treaty is needed to ensure that the European stability mechanism is within the European Union institutional framework.
Having said that, I note that paragraph 6 refers to Europe's smaller nations 'whose economy may be seen as not "indispensable” for the purposes of safeguarding the euro area as a whole'.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because the amendment of the Lisbon Treaty adopted will facilitate the establishment of the permanent euro stability mechanism.
However, this mechanism and the Guarantee Fund is only intended for euro area members, while countries not in the euro area will be sidelined, causing greater fragmentation of the EU.
in writing. - (IT) The resolution on the proposal to amend the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, approved in Parliament, concerning the provision of a European stability mechanism for the euro area, is an important goal for strengthening the cohesion and competitiveness of the economy and stabilising the financial system.
I voted for the amendment, given the significance of the euro to the European political and economic plan for sustainable growth.
The stabilisation of the euro area is of strategic importance, and I believe that Europe must include measures to strengthen it, increasing its economic governance in light of the objectives to be pursued by the EU 2020 Strategy.
I believe that the ordinary Treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the Treaties, for example a social progress clause.
Finally, I urge the Member States to enable referenda in all Member States on proposals for Treaty change.
in writing. - (RO) I regard the stability mechanism as being particularly important and vital to the Member States which use the euro as their currency in terms of strengthening the single currency and supporting the European political and economic project.
in writing. - (IT) The new European stability mechanism requires an amendment to the Treaty of Lisbon, to ensure its legally valid inclusion within the institutional framework of the European Union.
The European stability mechanism is therefore an important element of a comprehensive package of new measures (together with the European Semesters and the EU 2020 Strategy), aimed at establishing a new framework for strengthening and coordinating economic and financial policies and budgetary discipline.
We must not hesitate in combating the sovereign debt crisis that has been affecting some countries in the euro area.
As such, the amendment of Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is essential to create a permanent European stability mechanism that will be effective in assisting Member States in difficulties.
I voted against this report because in no way is this the solution to the economic crisis we are experiencing.
in writing. - (HU) I represent a country from the euro area which at the time did not support the loan for Greece.
The crisis spared neither the euro area nor the European Union, but our common currency has already proven itself on several occasions.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution because it is important for the whole of the European Union as it recovers from the tough economic crisis.
The European stability mechanism is a permanent aid fund assisting euro area Member States affected by the crisis.
This would pave the way for them to access financial markets while encouraging a speedier economic recovery.
in writing. - (IT) I voted for the amendment of the Treaty with regard to a stability mechanism for Member States whose currency is the euro.
In fact, when the Treaty of Lisbon came into force on 1 December 2009, there were no expectations that it would have to endure amendments in the near future.
I agree that there is a need for a concerted and coherent economic and financial policy between the Member States of the euro area, which could guarantee the cohesion and stability of the euro area, so I voted in favour of this report aimed at amending Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as institutionalising a permanent European financial stability mechanism with the aim of guaranteeing stability and financial assistance, according to certain conditions, specifically a rigorous analysis and the application of an economic and financial recovery programme.
in writing. - (IT) Today we voted, during the mini part-session at the European Parliament in Brussels, on the report 'amending the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with regard to a stability mechanism for Member States whose currency is the euro'.
in writing. - According to the report voted today, the EP: 1.
Emphasises that the monetary policy for the Member States whose currency is the euro is a Union-exclusive competence and has been a Community policy since the Maastricht Treaty; and 2.
At the same time, it considers that it is essential to go beyond the temporary measures aiming at stabilising the euro area, and that the Union should build up its economic governance, including by means of policies and instruments designed to promote sustainable growth in Member States, and takes the view that the reinforcement of the SGP, the European Semester, the EU 2020 Strategy and the amendment of Article136 TFEU concerning the stability mechanism are only a first step in that direction.
in writing. - (IT) I support the wording of this resolution because I believe that the monetary policy of the euro should remain an exclusive competence of the European institutions, since this would avoid the setting-up of double structures which would prove detrimental to European integration.
All Member States currently coordinate their economic policies in accordance with measures dictated by the European institutions for the stability of the entire euro area.
For this reason, the stability mechanism is a joint response to economic and social growth challenges and to encourage the introduction of the euro in the remaining Member States.
I believe that the ordinary Treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the treaties, for example a social progress clause.
Finally, I urge the Member States to enable referenda in all Member States on proposals for Treaty change.
Furthermore we disagree with the choice of the simplified Treaty revision procedure.
We believe that the ordinary Treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the treaties, for example a social progress clause.
Finally, we urge the Member States to enable referenda in all Member States on proposals for Treaty change.
The Union's economic governance is gradually becoming a reality.
Therefore, and to guarantee the stability of the euro area, this report aims to amend Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as to institutionalise a permanent European financial stability mechanism with the aim of guaranteeing stability and financial assistance, according to certain conditions, specifically a rigorous analysis, and the application of an economic and financial recovery programme.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of this addendum to the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union because it has logical consequences for economic governance and promotes further coherence in the euro area with a view to common financial policy.
in writing. - (DE) The Brok/Gualtieri report explicitly states that the Council - and thus the Member States - have failed to implement the Stability and Growth Pact fully and that ways of stabilising the Pact that exist in the treaties have not been exploited.
Moreover, with this report Parliament gives its backing to the European Commission and unreservedly supports its 'intention to ensure consistency between the future mechanism and the Union's economic governance' in order to prevent any future crisis like the one we have at present.
As early as paragraph 3 of the report it is established that the European Parliament sees the stability mechanism as 'part of a global package of measures which are designed to define a new framework, reinforcing budgetary discipline and coordination of economic and financial policies of the Member States'.
in writing. - (SK) The single currency has brought greater freedom to Europe.
