Institutional aspects of accession by the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms - Review Conference of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in Kampala, Uganda (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Ramón Jáuregui Atondo, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on institutional aspects of accession by the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the Council and Commission statements on the Review Conference of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in Kampala, Uganda.
I know that there are many important days in this House, but I sincerely believe that since the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted on 1 December 2009, the mandate for the European Union to sign up to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been one of the big headlines of the process of European integration.
I therefore think that we are witnessing the culmination of a long-held aspiration that is part of the historical process of European integration, because human dignity, human rights, democracy and the rule of law are part of the DNA of what has largely been the historical process of European integration.
The report that we will adopt tomorrow is realising this mandate, which the European Union has had since the Treaty of Lisbon required accession to the convention.
The second idea is providing the European public with a new law and a new court: the right of Europeans to apply to this new court in order to guarantee fulfilment of the rights established by the convention in relation to the European Union or the Member States when they are implementing Union law.
It also means strengthening the European system for protecting fundamental rights because, alongside the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Treaty of Lisbon, it creates a setting, a legal protection framework that is almost perfect and is therefore the most advanced in the world.
Moreover, this initiative, which is provided for by the Treaty of Lisbon, also increases the European Union's credibility in defending human rights, as we are asking not European Union countries but European countries to contribute to strengthening the European Convention on Human Rights.
I would like to remind you that there was a common position in 2003, there was an action plan in 2004, and there was also an agreement by the European Union on cooperation with the Court in 2006.
I think this is extremely important in order to highlight the role that the International Criminal Court plays in the world and the European Union's commitment to strengthening it.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I agree with all the speakers and with all those Members who have been working on the subject.
Let me just mention three points which, in my view, are very important.
We have to do this by internal legal rules, and the idea that Parliament should be involved in a way similar to that provided for by Article 255 regarding the selection of candidates for the Court of Justice is a very interesting one which deserves close examination.
As you know, 138 states took a step forward in 1998 when they adopted the Rome Statute creating, for the first time in history, a permanent international court to ensure that perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are brought to account.
The Court started to operate in 2003 and now, seven years later, we have the review conference in Kampala, which invites us to conduct an early analysis of the Court's activities, of the challenges that lie ahead and of the effectiveness of EU support.
No judicial cycle has been completed, but the ICC is considering the situation in five countries: one trial has started, another trial is going to start on 5 July and one further case is in the pre-trial stage - all for DAR and DRC.
At the same time, in its short life, the Court has been a powerful deterrent for future atrocities because perpetrators now know that justice will prevail and, in this sense, the Court faces challenges.
The EU considers that an effective ICC is an indispensable instrument for the international community to combat this impunity and to promote a rule-based international order.
The common position was translated into an action plan.
We were the first organisation to enter into a cooperation and assistance agreement with the Court in 2006, and we give the ICC full political and diplomatic support with démarches, political dialogues and statements.
Since 2000, the European Initiative - later entitled the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights - has contributed EUR 29 million to support the Court directly or indirectly, notably through global civil society campaigns.
I wish to begin by congratulating him for drafting this excellent report which, in my view, provides a comprehensive description of the benefits and challenges arising from the European Union's accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
This step may seem nowadays, in the post-Lisbon period, to be completely obvious, but it has been hoped for on a regular basis during the last 30 years.
I consider that accession to the ECHR will boost the EU's credibility in any human rights dialogue with third countries, confirming to all once again that the European Union is, above all, a community based on law.
The EU's institutions, as well as those of the Member States of the Council of Europe, will therefore be subject to external, independent control by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, based on the statement: 'a single standard in human rights, a single Court'.
From the perspective of having a single standard in human rights, I must emphasise that accession to the ECHR offers, at the same time, an opportunity for the EU to accede to other Council of Europe treaties as well.
Another point which I also emphasised in the opinion that I drafted for the Committee on Foreign Affairs is that a balance also needs to be found between, on the one hand, preserving the specific features of the European judicial system and, on the other, preserving the system of jurisdiction in Strasbourg, which has shown its effectiveness in protecting human rights at a pan-European level.
I believe that the close cooperation between the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, along with the Subcommittee on Human Rights that supplemented our work, has successfully addressed the series of questions relating to our accession to the convention, and has correctly indicated the emerging questions that remain to be clarified.
I personally, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, resolved first of all to focus - and this was ultimately confirmed by the Committee - on ensuring that our accession does indeed represent added value for citizens of the European Union and that the latter are aware of these values and opportunities, although we should also avoid raising exaggerated expectations.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Madam President, the review conference of the International Criminal Court (ICC) is a long awaited and important event in the evolution of the Court itself and, more broadly, international criminal justice.
Therefore, I believe it is essential for the Council of Europe and the European Union to consider establishing guidelines, with a clear explanation of all the effects and implications that membership will entail.
There are many examples that show this, but the crucial thing is that, for the first time in history, it is now possible for high-ranking representatives of a State - civilian or military - to be called to account for having ordered war crimes or crimes against humanity.
I want to be reassured that if the EU signs the convention, that position will not change.
It is, no doubt, Europe's most important human rights instrument and the importance of the Strasbourg-based European Court of Human Rights - maybe even for Mr Fox - is clear from the fact that it handles an average of 30 000 complaints a year.
In 2009, incidentally, there were 57 000, and the Court issued 2 000 judgments that year or, more accurately, it had to pronounce these judgments.
I, hope, first and foremost, that it will indeed prove itself to be historic for Europe's citizens, as it will create an area of applicable human rights to which not only 47 governments, but also the institutions of the European Union, are bound.
In that way, the EU will be sending a strong signal to the citizens of Europe that it is not above the law when it comes to human rights and that they, the citizens, can bring an action if the Community institutions should infringe their human rights.
They can bring cases of this nature before the European Court of Human Rights under Article 6.
Such cases can be brought before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg under Article 10.
I would be far more interested in protecting the residents of my constituency, the West Midlands in the UK, against the action of the Convention on Human Rights.
Of course, in the UK, we incorporated this into our law in 1998, allowing the ECHR to have effect in all our courts.
We are reminded of George Orwell.
He could even enjoy the spectacle of 90 lorries laden with gravel churning up the country lanes where parents walk with their children.
Of course, these are but small tragedies and are nothing when compared to the important political project that is the European Union, but let us consider that when we propose special rights on one group of citizens, we automatically degrade the rights of others.
We are doing so because we feel that it will increase guarantees for the public, because what we are doing is giving more guarantees to people that the European Union legislation applied by the Member States and European Union laws is in line with the set of rights recognised in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights.
This report opens the way for resolving many of the technical legal problems that are going to arise, because we must not forget that the convention was designed to be ratified and applied by Member States.
They are also strengthened by the mandate in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union to sign up to the European Convention on Human Rights.
This does not diminish any of the fundamental rights guaranteed to European citizens by the legislation of the Member States due to the fact that they are citizens of those Member States.
We have organised extremely fruitful visits to the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights, and we have called a third conference on 21 June which is going to be attended by important specialists and judges from the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to put together a joint, advance response to what the legal guarantee should be for citizenship rights.
A British legal expert named Hart wrote that there are no rights without legal guarantee, and there is no legal guarantee without judges, in the same way that there can be no Europe without citizens and there are no European citizens if they are not aware that European integration makes us grow and strengthens the fundamental rights that we already have as members of the EU Member States.
As a Dutch European, I would like to reassure our citizens that the 'Hague Invasion Act' will never be invoked.
The European Parliament has been working constructively and is united on this subject. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are working towards here today is the extension of law at the supranational level.
For that reason, what we have done here with the International Criminal Court represents a major step forwards in that all such people will know, in future, that there is a judge beyond national law and that, for the rest of their lives, they will have to live with the fact that they will be held to account.
I am pleased that we will be able to implement this together here today and I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Jáuregui Atondo, for his outstanding report.
In addition to everything that has been said in favour of this accession, I would like to stress two points that I feel are important: the establishing of a control outside the Union and the extraterritoriality of the convention; in other words, its application to all the acts of the Union, including outside EU territory.
That implies ad hoc legal assistance affording access to specialist external lawyers.
I have one other wish, Commissioner: that the Union will use all of its weight, all of its energy, to ensure that the Member States as a whole adapt their law to international law.
The material accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights and hence, to the jurisdiction of the Court is, of course, based on the fact that the Union acquired its own legal personality under the Treaty of Lisbon.
First of all, the Court in Strasbourg has, in the sense of res judicata, acquired much broader capabilities than those provided for under fundamental rights, as both the Presidency and Commissioner Reding have hinted.
In calling for better access to justice for victims, we should acknowledge that 15 of the 24 countries worldwide who have contributed to the Trust Fund for Victims are our own EU Member States - but we should also note with humility that that means 12 EU Members have not given such funding and that 14 of our countries have neither designated national contact points nor responded to the annual survey, as required by the Charter.
For example, could the Commission tell me if, in its opinion, the arrest warrant issued by the International Criminal Court against President Omar al-Bashir constitutes part of the solution or part of the problem?
Having taken these lessons on board, does the Commission intend - and this is my final question - to table amendments during the ICC review conference in Kampala, which will be an opportunity to table and, if necessary, adopt amendments to the text that constitutes the Court's legal basis? (PL) When we accede to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, we must, at all costs, avoid a number of serious dangers.
The main problem with this report is that it is important for all of us present, as MEPs, to raise human rights to a higher dimension, namely the protection of human rights.
We also oppose the notion that this symbolic decision should be taken as suggesting that we are part of a large empire. (IT) Madam President, Mr López Garrido, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this membership is surely a sign of one of the European Union's missions: the mission to defend and promote human rights.
We are therefore satisfied with this document, and I will not dwell on individual elements of it, because we fully support everything that the President of the Council and the Commissioner have said.
I would like to make just one suggestion, since the statement about the institutional presence of European Members of Parliament within the European Council Parliamentary Assembly when meeting to appoint the judge and the judges is somewhat vague: I would say that there is a small problem with the relationship between the population of Europe, of the European Union, and the populations of other countries.
I believe we must reflect a little more upon this problem but, above all, on the problem of the European spirit: we are the European Union and, as stated in Article 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon, we are founded on human dignity and human rights - and equality is founded on human dignity.
I thank the rapporteur. (EL) Madam President, the European Union is, and remains, an ardent supporter of the International Criminal Court and its role in defending the universality of human rights.
The Court is currently conducting investigations in five African countries: Kenya, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan, Uganda and the Central African Republic.
The role of the Court in this matter is crucial.
If the Court had existed 70 years ago, perhaps the Katyń Massacre would never have happened.
However, bringing the accused Omar al-Bashir to trial is currently the most significant step in consolidating the universal jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court (ICC).
Even if Omar al-Bashir had been elected legitimately, the European Union should still be demanding that he be brought to justice.
The European Union cannot continue to give contradictory signals.
It is imperative that President Omar al-Bashir be handed over to the ICC.
I want to underline that I am going to speak as a lawyer.
I would like to draw attention to the role of the Court of Justice in the construction of the European Union's accession to the European Convention.
In particular, the requirement in the European Convention on Human Rights that the applicant must exhaust domestic remedies before applying to the European Court of Human Rights must be transposed into a procedure which would give the Court of Justice in every case the opportunity to decide as the last domestic remedy before the Strasbourg Court looks into the matter.
I mainly refer to the cases where Member States apply EU law and Member States are sued by individual applicants following the application of that EU law.
Along with my colleagues, I welcome the Union's accession to the convention but, at the same time, I ask for a very careful analysis of the procedure we put in place, as we need to protect citizens' interests and, at the same time, to preserve what is working well. (PT) I would stress that it is with great satisfaction - shall we say - that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and its Portuguese Members are seeing the start of Europe's process of accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
In the end, in a country like Portugal - which has always been at the forefront of human rights with the abolition of slavery in Portugal as soon as 1761 and which was a pioneer in abolishing the death penalty - we could clearly only be interested in supporting this accession process.
I would like, however, to call attention to the fact that we believe it to be very important for Parliament to monitor the EU's process of accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
I would also like it to be noted, Members, that we consider it very important that we are in contact with many third states; this is a very important signal that we are giving to the members of the Council of Europe (the entry of the European Union to the Council of Europe) who are not Member States.
That said, I do not think that the European Union will become a realm of freedom all of a sudden just because it has acceded to the convention.
Fortunately, the International Criminal Court in Kampala is becoming increasingly significant in measures being taken against these crimes.
I think we should discuss and think about what to do for the Court in Kampala to work still more efficiently and effectively. (SK) As has already been mentioned, the accession of the EU to this convention is, above all, a symbolic gesture.
The EU, as a non-state member acceding to a convention that was designed for states, should take care not to demand needless changes to the convention or to its judicial system.
The question is what added value and benefit are derived from the perspective of European citizens by the European Union's accession to the same Convention on Human Rights that every single EU Member State has already joined.
I thank you in advance for finally making an exception to the general rule for once. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, becoming a member of the European Court of Human Rights represents a crucial step in the Union's growth: the two systems of guarantee will strengthen the protection of individual fundamental rights, both within and outside our 27 countries, if we consider all the member countries of the European Council.
I conclude, in the knowledge that the independence of the two courts remains unchanged, as is clearly explained and ratified in the report - more than that, I congratulate my colleague on this report - and accords with all of our wishes, with the obvious exception of cooperation between the two institutions, which respect their own areas of responsibility. (ES) Madam President, I would like to clarify two things.
Firstly, the articles that are in the Charter of Fundamental Rights that are also in the European Convention on Human Rights are the same and mean the same thing: Articles 52 and 53 of the Charter; there is therefore no contradiction.
I do not understand how people such as the representatives of the two groups that I mentioned, who have demonstrated their obvious euroscepticism, are refusing supranational control over the European Union.
I am sure that the mandate for starting negotiations will be adopted on 4 June at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Brussels, so he does not need to worry.
It is a very important meeting which the Presidency, on behalf of which I am speaking, is going to attend in order to clearly establish and reaffirm that the Member States have to cooperate with the International Criminal Court, and that they are going to work along those lines, naturally based on the principle of complementarity, which is a basic principle of operation of the Criminal Court.
In any case, the Presidency will make a statement supporting the Criminal Court and will also give an evaluation of what the Criminal Court has meant.
I am, of course, very grateful to Parliament for holding this debate today, which has enabled us to reaffirm our common values and also to recall that basically, when we talk about the International Criminal Court, we are talking about people who have suffered the atrocities that the Rome Statute seeks to prosecute, and that it is ultimately about fighting impunity and making it clear that in the 21st century, there is no room for impunity.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Convention on Human Rights are extraordinary texts.
They are the basis of the values on which we have been building our society and our European Union.
When I hear what your rapporteur, Diego López Garrido, and your co-rapporteurs, Cristian Dan Preda and Kinga Gál, have said in your name in this Parliament, I know that you are also very conscious about the historical task which is now in our hands.
The Member States have all signed up to the Convention but they have also - as the Minister-in-Office of the Council just explained - transferred substantial competences to the European Union.
It is therefore normal that the European Union, when it acts as a European Union, will be subject to the same external control of the specialised Court on Human Rights as are the Member States.
The European Court of Justice in Luxembourg will judge on the basis of the Charter of Fundamental Rights which, by the way, is binding for all Member States.
Here, we are giving them twice the rights, and that is what Europe is about.
Europe is about rights for European citizens and I am very proud that this House is standing for those rights.
The question of whether or not we shall now be part of the Convention on Human Rights is not a question anymore because Article 6 of the treaty obliges the EU to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
We have so far seen that these conflicts are considered to be minimal because the convention is already part of the norms which the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg takes into account today and the convention will operate as a minimum standard.
The Commission expects case-law of Strasbourg and of Luxembourg to develop harmoniously and converge in the coming years.
As for relations between the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I leave that in the hands of Parliament.
We also believe that the Kampala conference is the most important international conference devoted to international justice in a decade.
We know that the EU has played and will play an important role by integrating the outcomes of the conference into its policies on international justice, on its assistance to third states and, most of all, into all the negotiations which will take place in the coming months and years.
We will do that systematically in all our discussions with partners outside of Europe.
The Commission clearly sees this as part of a long-term solution because this arrest warrant shows that, with the establishment of the Court, justice has become imminent.
However, the Commission will play an active role in the stock-taking part of the conference, and we count fully on the Spanish Presidency to lead the European nations so that their voice will make a big difference in this conference.
Madam President, I would like to express my thanks to all those who have spoken, because the vast majority of them have expressed a very favourable position regarding the accession agreement that we are going to vote on tomorrow; in fact, it has almost been unanimous.
I would especially like to thank Mrs Reding for giving us the opportunity to continue working together, as there are very complex negotiations to come and I believe that Parliament needs to be very close to those negotiations.
It is a new court, it is a new opportunity for guaranteeing fundamental human rights, for example, the right to equality.
Finally, Parliament is also calling for accession to Convention and Council of Europe bodies and authorities, because this will enable recognition of the universal human rights protection system, including the Turin European Social Charter.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 19 May 2010.
Written statements (Rule 149) The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon creates the legal framework for the European Union's accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights (ECHR), thereby making the EU the 48th signatory to the convention.
I believe that both Member States and the Commission will have to prepare information briefings which will provide explanations about all the implications and effects of accession so that the EU's citizens are fully aware of the significance of this process.
The European Union's accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is a logical step following on from the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and enhances the depth of integration and creation of a common political area.
This is a substantial development, given that Member States have transferred important powers to the European Union.
I hope that this additional instrument made available to European citizens will be easily accessible and, in particular, that the decision to accede to this convention will help create a more coherent framework for human rights within the European Union.
In connection with the forthcoming negotiations on accession by the Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, I would like to draw attention to the matter of external relations.
The Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will gain the right to assess how the Union observes fundamental rights in all areas of its activity, and so also in foreign policy.
There is no doubt that by submitting to the supervision of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the Union has the opportunity to strengthen the human rights aspect of foreign policy and security and, in so doing, to promote the idea of human rights more effectively around the world, to the extent that the EU treats its own human rights obligations seriously.
Let us hope that this is how it will be. (PL) Accession by the European Union to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is, without doubt, a step in the right direction on the road to ensuring our citizens equal and fair privileges.
However, let us not forget that as well as upholding the rights of the people of third countries, the Union should first take care that these rights are not broken in the Member States.
There is a country in the European Union where, for nearly 20 years, the human rights and fundamental freedoms of about 20% of the population have been violated.
As a result, there are approximately 340 000 non-citizens living in EU territory.
In Latvia, they are second-class people, who are not allowed to work in the public sector, or hold official posts even in districts where more than 60% of the population are non-citizens.
There is a city in Latvia, Daugavpils, where more than 90% of the population is Russian-speaking.
It is essential to set up a working group to investigate the situation in Latvia without delay, otherwise I do not see the point of the EU's being a party to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
We must make it known clearly and unambiguously that there is a country within the European Union where the rights of more than 25% of the population have been cynically violated over many years.
When we talk about accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, we are talking about work which has been going on for 10 years now and about many fears concerning, inter alia, competition between the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights.
The Court of Justice has, for a long time, been following the work of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and vice versa.
We need accession to the convention for symbolic reasons but, above all, we need the convention because it will complement the system of protection of human rights in the European Union and will give it greater credibility in the eyes of its citizens, for they will gain protection against the European Union and its institutions, and not only against the Member States, as has been the case until now.
