Protection of Communities' financial interests - fight against fraud (debate) The next item is the report (Α7-0050/2011) by Mr Cătălin Sorin Ivan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the protection of the Communities' financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual report 2009 -.
Madam President, this report on the protection of the European Union's financial interests is based on the report drafted by the Commission according to Article 325 of the Treaty of the Functioning of the European Union.
We must have a very serious discussion about the way in which Member States pass on to the European Union, to the European Commission to be more exact, information about the way in which EU funds are used.
I would like to quote at this point from Special Report No 1/2010 from the Court of Auditors of the European Union, which points out the following: 'the control carried out on these simplified procedures is very limited, while the number of errors identified by the Court is alarming'.
I will continue to refer to the costs involved and to mention, on the one hand, the use of European funds and, on the other hand, the recovery of funds which have been allocated without justification.
The 2009 report already includes new detailed information on levels of fraud and irregularities, and indicates the suspected fraud rate per Member State for the 2000-2006 Cohesion programmes.
Secondly, on the issue of the Convention on the protection of financial interests, I am preparing a communication for next May, together with Vice-President Reding.
The situation is improving.
The third issue concerns the transparency of beneficiaries' funding.
There is a page on the Commission's website where we can see some of the beneficiaries of European funds in the Member States.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Šemeta, We know that 80% of the EU budget is administered in a shared management arrangement, which means that money is administered and spent in the Member States, which is exactly where the errors, irregularities and fraud occur.
I found the Commission's report on the protection of the European Union's financial interests contains one remarkable sentence - on page 11 in the German version.
Operation Diabolo II - it is said - was a peach of a collaborative operation, and the agreements reached with British American Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco were equally outstanding.
This will yield us EUR 500 million.
This money must actually be used - by the Commission, yes, but predominantly by the Member States - to strengthen anti-fraud measures in the Member States.
The money that results from this agreement must be put to use in the fight against fraud.
Thank you very much for your attention. (DE) Madam President, Mr Šemeta, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's report on the Protection of the European Union's financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual Report 2009 introduces several new provisions.
Data can now be entered at 800 offices throughout Europe, rather than 50 offices as before.
It is painful to see that the Commission is still showing a great deal of patience in relation to implementation in the Member States, which continues to proceed at snail's pace.
We are very unhappy with the situation in Italy.
Commissioner, we would be grateful to hear some answers and to receive appropriate remedies in the legislation introduced by the Commission. - (SK) Madam President, I would like to express my support for the rapporteur in his wholly justified criticism of the Commission's annual report.
I fully agree with the rapporteur that the Commission is putting a disproportionately large effort into convincing us in Parliament of the need to introduce a tolerable risk of error, rather than trying to persuade Member States of the need for mandatory national management declarations. (PL) Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur that we should not confuse serious fraud with accidental errors, because doing so means that the accidental errors divert attention from the most serious matters.
These are the basic tools we should use to fight corruption. (NL) Madam President, I am pleased with this report.
Italy is also mentioned in Mr Ivan's document.
I believe that the activity performed by Parliament, the Court of Auditors and the national audit offices of countries, Member States alike is highly important.
At the same time, I would like to emphasise that it is very important to distinguish between irregularities and fraud because irregularity is not the same as fraud.
Let us not terrorise the individual. (LT) Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague Cătălin Ivan for his excellent work preparing this important report.
It is important for the Commission and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to be provided with high quality, accurate, reliable and comparable data on irregularities and fraud.
The current recovery rate is very low and intolerable.
I think that control over the spending of European funds would improve considerably if there were specific data and methods available for assessing the management and control systems deployed in the Member States where the national agencies' efficiency is evident.
I should also like to stress his interest in raising the issue of deadlines.
In this light, it seems that the calls for reform of the EU's public procurement rules and the need for what I would call a public European register for the beneficiaries of EU funds are timely. (EL) Madam President, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his exceptional work on the annual report on the protection of the Communities' financial interests and on the fight against fraud.
I absolutely agree that we need to improve supervision of pre-accession funds, given the experience in 2009, and that we need to monitor OLAF's work constantly, not only when the annual report is debated.
Finally, I should like to stress that our report provides important findings which we can use in the debates which have started both on the review of the Budgetary Regulation and for planning political cohesion post-2013. (BG) Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his extremely diligent work on this report.
However, fraud is not something that just simply happens, but requires a high level of criminal activity.
The Commission will further improve the format and content of the Article 325 annual report on the protection of financial interests and will take into account the suggestions that were made during the debate.
The Commission also shares the view that, although measures have been taken by the Member States to make control systems in the fight against fraud and corruption more efficient, there is still room for further improvement.
It is not just a problem for several Member States or new Member States but also for the Member States that you mentioned in your intervention.
I and my services have been working seriously on it and I believe that the report for 2010 will be of the highest possible quality.
Secondly, the national management declarations must be signed by the national politician responsible for this, such as the relevant minister.
Last but not least, and as the final point in my speech, I want to welcome the proposal tabled by my colleague Jens Geier on introducing a system for automatically suspending European funds when any suspicion of fraud arises.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the report by Mr Cătălin Sorin Ivan will take place tomorrow at 12:00.
I would first like to highlight the appeal made in the report to countries that have not yet ratified the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities, in other words Malta, Estonia and the Czech Republic.
I would like to join the call for OLAF, in accordance with the request raised in last year's report on protecting the financial interests of the Community, to provide a detailed analysis in its next annual report of the strategies and measures introduced by each Member State in the fight against fraud and the prevention and detection of irregularities in the use of European funding, including cases where these resulted from corruption.
