2010 progress report on Iceland The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the 2010 progress report on Iceland.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I greatly appreciate the European Parliament's active involvement in the enlargement process and its constructive participation in the general debate on enlargement, and, of course, specifically in the accession process of Iceland.
On 17 June 2010, the European Council unanimously decided to grant Iceland candidate status.
The first meeting of the accession conference at ministerial level took place on 27 July 2010, and November 2010 saw the start of the screening process, which is proceeding as planned.
The next accession conference at ministerial level is scheduled for 27 June; this way, we will have the opportunity to take stock of the results achieved and, we hope, open up as many chapters as possible.
Parliament's draft resolution also identifies these issues.
In its 2010 report on the results achieved, the Commission concluded that Iceland meets the political criteria required for membership, and even though it was hit hard by the economic and financial crisis, it is suitably prepared to take the measures necessary to meet the requirements of EU membership.
The course of the negotiations will be determined by whether Iceland meets all of its obligations under the EEA Agreement, taking full account, among other things, of the European Council conclusions of 17 June 2010, and also by the results it achieves in eliminating other deficiencies identified in the Commission's opinion.
As regards the latter, I would like to draw your attention to our common task, that is, the necessity for appropriate and in-depth communication with the public, both with regard to Icelandic and EU citizens.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, today's debate on Iceland and the next steps in its accession process is very opportune.
Since November 2010, 24 chapters have been discussed and 23 bilateral screening meetings have been completed, covering fisheries, agriculture, environment, regional policy and financial services.
I can confirm that we expect actual negotiations to start towards the end of the Hungarian Presidency, with the opening of some chapters at the accession conference scheduled for 27 June 2011.
As regards Icesave, and as referred to in your resolution, the Commission would welcome a swift resolution of this matter in the interests of all the parties involved.
Good progress is being made on finalising the national IPA programme for 2011 and a number of specific activities have started in the framework of the Technical Assistance and Information Exchange (TAIEX) programme.
It is encouraging to note that public opinion in Iceland has improved significantly in favour of the EU over the past year - both in relation to support for continuing the accession process and in terms of the attitude towards membership of the EU and its image.
Mr President, I would like to begin by welcoming the presence of the Commission and Council in the Chamber, as well as the fruitful cooperation we have had so far with these two institutions, including in drafting this resolution.
Iceland excels in this respect, with a strong tradition of democracy.
I hope that, as indicated by the surveys, the Icelandic population will decide to support it in the referendum to be held in three days' time, thereby ensuring that this bilateral dispute disappears from the negotiation process for accession to the EU. 3.
I am also pleased to note from opinion polls in Iceland that 65% of the Icelandic people want the negotiations to continue.
The second meeting of the EU-Icelandic Joint Parliamentary Committee will take place in Reykjavík on 26 and 27 April.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the ECR Group fully supports Icelandic accession to the European Union, although the decision is firmly a matter for Icelanders alone in a referendum.
A negative result in the forthcoming referendum in Iceland on this issue could prove a serious handicap with regard to support from the UK Government.
Iceland will neither give up its rich fishing grounds - producing 40% of its exports - to join the disastrous common fisheries policy, nor abandon an Icelandic Parliament that is more than 1 000 years old and the winner of a UNESCO award for democracy.
I got a little confused there, Mr Campbell Bannerman, with the April Fool thing.
The only Icelandic party in favour of membership has slumped from 30% to 18% in the polls.
What is more, it sends a very negative message in the context of Iceland's accession negotiations.
I congratulate the Icelandic authorities for the support given to the Lisbon strategy and their involvement in it, including through the adoption of an Iceland 2020 strategy, which highlights the importance of these areas and outlines targets for the years ahead.
My simple recommendation to the Icelandic people is for them to wait for the final outcome of the negotiations before adopting a stance. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can actually congratulate ourselves.
It would be the smallest country in the EU in terms of population.
Iceland is part of the European Free Trade Area, and is therefore compatible with the acquis in many of the areas covered by this agenda.
The situation may be improving, but only very slowly.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, today's discussion has proved productive in identifying the steps Iceland needs to take in order to ensure a positive outcome in the accession negotiations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate.
Finally, I would like to add one more thought: I am very pleased that, during the debate, no speaker questioned the fact that Iceland has a perfectly functional democratic institutional system and political culture - we all recognised this.
And I am certain that the Icelandic people will make a very responsible decision about whether or not to join the European Union.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Despite this, the country has managed to achieve European standards and, in many areas, to fulfil the set conditions necessary for successful integration into the current 27 countries of the EU.
Although Iceland has managed to implement a considerable part of European legislation, the actual accession procedure may be complicated by, for example, economic policy or the policy on fishing.
The fact that a considerable proportion of Icelandic citizens do not much favour EU membership may also be regarded as a negative factor to some extent, despite the considerable support from the population for the accession talks.
The prospect of accession is being seen in a positive light, but there are still some disputed matters, such as whaling, which is banned in the EU, Iceland's desire to protect its fisheries and agriculture markets and the dispute over Icesave.
It is important to reach agreement on the question of fishing quotas.
However, contentious issues still exist, such as whaling, which is banned in the European Union, and Iceland's wish to protect its fisheries markets.
As you know, despite appeals to observe the principles of responsible fishing, in 2010, the government in Reykjavik unilaterally established a total allowable catch for the species which was much higher than the limits put forward in scientific advice.
