Ban on use of cyanide mining technologies (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Mr Áder and Mr Tőkés, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on the ban on the use of cyanide mining technologies - B7-0206/2010).
The cyanide disaster on the Tisza River ten years ago, as well as accidents that have occurred since then, also serve as reminders of this problem.
Fortunate, because according to the information received from the Commission, today only three countries still use this cyanide-based mining technology, and it is fortunate also because there are three other countries that have banned cyanide mining technology, thus setting an example for the other EU Member States.
Let us not wait for a new catastrophe to warn us of this.
The conclusions of that study were taken on board when the European Union adopted in 2006 a specific directive on the management of extracted waste.
In most European deposits, gold is bound with other metals meaning that a separation method is required.
Nevertheless, the Commission is following technology development in the sector and, if alternative techniques emerge in the coming years, the debate might very well be reopened.
The same amount can be obtained through the recycling of approximately 5 kg of old mobile phones.
Unfortunately, in European environmental protection - and, in particular, in the Committee on Petitions - there are numerous examples where environmental pollution begins and continues without us being able to prevent it; therefore the European Union must henceforth make prevention its aim.
My colleagues, Mr Áder and Mr Seeber, also referred to the cyanide disaster at the mine in Baia Mare.
When we are urging a ban on the use of cyanide in mining, in gold mining, we are doing so based on the experience of a specific, very sad environmental catastrophe.
The expected lifetime of the mine is only 20 years, and it will create scarcely any jobs.
For all these reasons, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, together with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, are not only launching the initiative but are also asking the Commission to draw up legislation by 2010 or 2011 definitively banning the use of cyanide in mining within the European Union, because environmental pollution does not stop at national borders.
Let us recall just a few from recent years: Summitville in Colorado, Carson Hill in California, Brewer in South Carolina, Harmony in South Africa, Omai in Guyana, Gold Quarry in Nevada, Zortman-Landusky in Montana, Kumtor in Kyrgyzstan, Homestake in South Dakota, Placer in the Philippines, Baia Mare in Romania and Tolukuma in Papua New Guinea.
Commissioner, the time has come to show the people of the EU what really matters to you: the environment and people's health and lives, or the profits of mining companies. (RO) We must agree that the ban on the use of cyanide in mining will become a priority issue for the environment not only in Romania, but throughout the whole of Europe as well.
More than 25 major accidents and discharges have occurred worldwide between 1998 and 2006, making it increasingly obvious that cyanide has been posing a constant hazard to the environment for decades.
In addition, there is not even any European legislation on air quality for such emissions.
In this context, it is our moral duty to future generations, and in keeping with the global trends on banning the use of cyanide in mining, to support this legislative proposal. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are marking the tenth anniversary of a large-scale environmental catastrophe involving the escape of cyanide into European rivers from a Romanian gold mine, we are voting on a resolution in which we demand an EU-wide ban on the extraction of gold through the use of cyanide.
I would like to ask for your support in the vote on our joint resolution, through which we call on the European Commission to ban the cyanide-based technology within the EU from 2012, and also for both the Commission and the Member States not to support mining projects using cyanide within the EU or in third countries.
In 2000, however, the second biggest environmental disaster in the history of Europe - perhaps even in the history of the world - was caused by the accident at Baia Mare in Romania, to which numerous members have referred.
One hundred thousand cubic metres of water with very high concentrations of cyanide and other heavy metals leaked from a gold mine into the Tisza River and from there into the Danube, affecting Hungary and Serbia, as well as Romania, killing tens of thousands of fish and poisoning the drinking water.
Hungary reported 1 367 tonnes of dead fish.
The time when we sacrificed the local environment and our citizens' health for jobs is long gone.
Every economic activity is welcome, provided that it is in keeping with environmental protection and protection of our citizens' health.
However, when we use cyanide, we expose both the environment and our citizens' health to irreparable danger.
Commissioner Malmström, are you in a position to assure us that we shall have adequate and strong legislation and that Baia Mare will not be repeated this time in Sweden, Finland, Bulgaria or Greece?
Commissioner, are you sure that new alternative technologies and new kinds of separation and flotation separation have been properly considered? (SK) First, I would like to thank the initiators, namely Mr Áder and Mr Tőkés, for raising this very serious issue.
Anyone who experienced and saw the results of the environmental catastrophe caused by the failure of the technology in Baia Mare, and the subsequent release of toxic cyanide effluents into water courses, with far-reaching effects on fauna in the Tisza River in Hungary, as well as the Danube in Bulgaria, would do everything possible to ensure that something similar could never happen again in the European Union.
The resolution mentions 30 accidents over the last 25 years.
This is why, fellow Members, please weigh up both the reasons for and consequences of voting against a resolution which diminishes our credibility before the Commission and reduces the chance of the motions for resolutions approved in the European Parliament being taken into consideration not only in the current case, but also in general. (BG) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the use of cyanide compounds in the mining industry is obviously an issue which no one can be indifferent to.
The new mine in Kittilä is the biggest in Europe with a yearly production of 5 000 kg of gold.
Therefore, the extraction process in Kittilä also involves cyanide, but in closed processes.
There are a number of European legislative acts in force in this area, as already mentioned earlier, which have increasingly tightened the regulations on the conditions for using cyanide, starting right from the time of the unfortunate accident mentioned earlier, which occurred in Baia Mare and regrettably resulted in contamination.
Cyanide-based technology has been used for extracting gold for over 100 years under conditions ensuring the environment's safety and as part of an efficient process for extracting gold.
In this area, there can be no question of small or large risk.
The Commission, for its part, should take a stand on the matter and initiate regulations that exclude the possibility of damage to the health of EU citizens. (FI) Mr President, as I come from the gold country of Northern Lapland, I want to make my contribution in this debate.
Just as Mrs Essayah said in her excellent speech, gold is dissolved by using cyanide, and this is happening in closed processes in Finland.
In the Kittilä goldmine, which is fairly close to where I live, over 5 000 kilos of gold are produced in a year.
I therefore really must ask for a long-term approach here.
Apart from the accident in Baia Mare in 2000, there have been a further two major accidents in the mining sector: one which occurred in Spain in 1998, and the other in Sweden in 2003, both of greater magnitude.
In the interests of protecting human health and the environment, and in view of the fact that cyanide extraction techniques can affect a number of states when accidents occur, I firmly believe that it is necessary and, indeed, essential to establish unified legislation at the European level. (RO) A chemical substance which has got out of control and escaped into the environment causes serious problems, but we have more than 10 million chemical substances.
In my opinion, and I think in truth, it is just a poor political plot. (DE) Mr President, I would briefly like to clarify as my fellow Member perhaps misunderstood as a result of the translation.
I know Baia Mare very well and know that it is not in the former Czechoslovakia, but in the north of Transylvania.
But let me assure you that the Commission has drawn conclusions from the terrible accident that happened 10 years ago in Baia Mare.
The directive that we have very recently put in place includes a lot of limitations, requirements, restrictions and demands, in order to provide maximum protection as regards the effects on the environment and human health.
Written statements (Rule 149) On 30 January 2000, the dam surrounding the tailing pond containing waste from the company Aurul in Baia Mare, Romania, cracked, allowing approximately 100 000 cubic metres of contaminated water, containing 100 tonnes of cyanide and heavy metals, to spill out.
The River Somes had cyanide concentrations 700 times above permitted levels.
It is absolutely imperative that we impose a total ban on the use of cyanide in mining within the EU in order to avert tragedies affecting people and the environment.
The disaster on the Tisza River ten years ago is considered the most serious European environmental disaster since Chernobyl.
Only in the past few days in Romania, the Arieş River, which flows into the Tisza, was polluted by a gold mine that had been shut down 40 years ago.
Last year, when visiting a nearby mining company (Roşia Poieni), President Traian Băsescu himself stated that 'we cannot sit on such an ecological bomb, for this is simply murder'.
In view of the new plans for mining development in Romania (Roşia Montană, Baia Mare, Certeju de Sus, etc.), I emphasise that a ban on cyanide-based mining is not simply a Romanian nor, in any way, an 'ethnic' problem, but a universal - European - matter, on which both the EU Member States and the European Parliament groups can reach a sensible agreement.
