Guidelines for the 2012 budget - other sections (debate) The sitting will now continue.
The first item is the report by Mr José Manuel Fernandes, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the guidelines for the 2012 budget procedure, Section I - European Parliament, Section II - Council, Section IV - Court of Justice, Section V - Court of Auditors, Section VI - European Economic and Social Committee, Section VII - Committee of the Regions, Section VIII - European Ombudsman, Section IX - European Data Protection Supervisor, Section X - European External Action Service (Α7-0049/2011).
The work has resulted in a broad consensus, as shown by the vote last week in the Committee on Budgets, where this report was passed by 34 votes to 1, with 1 abstention.
This report aims to be in harmony and in line with the current moment: with the economic, financial and social situation through which we are struggling, with the crisis that we are experiencing, and, at the same time, with what the European public wants from the European Union and its institutions.
Therefore, with this in mind, I asked my colleagues in the Commission to be particularly sensitive to increases in administration and we can promise that our increase should be less than 1%.
This means, given that there are some contractual obligations, that there are cuts for 2012 in the areas of information technology, meetings, conferences and mission costs, as well as in the area of studies and publication.
I think this is really the line to be taken for 2011 as regards administrative expenditure.
We are to hold discussions on the basis of guidelines on 30 March and I am looking forward to our meeting towards trialogue on 30 March.
I believe there are potential savings to be found in things like the buildings policy and in terms of enlargement - which the Commissioner has mentioned himself - but also in things like the proposed cost of a non-European office, which I believe at this time is an unaffordable luxury.
Finally, can I say we also need to work very closely with other institutions, particularly the Committee of the Regions and the European Economic and Social Committee, which I know were very concerned about their budget for 2012 as well.
We have plenty of competent people in the various Directorates General and I am sure that we will be able to bring them together in an effective way.
With regard to the House of History, I would agree with Mrs Hohlmeier that it is important that such a project should have a business plan from the start.
It must make sense and must be reasonable in terms of the future.
Madam President, Commissioner Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, the issue currently under debate is the Parliament's budget for 2012 and I would like to emphasise that from the perspective of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the right balance must be struck between limited and justified increases, which are mainly the result of the new powers and responsibilities under the Treaty of Lisbon, and self-discipline and self-restraint in times when public funds are in short supply.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on what I find is a very well-balanced report, particularly in its seeking of consolidated resources and an austerity budget.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, it is a disgrace that in the present economic crisis, a proposal for a 5% increase for 2012 is already being put forward for this Parliament's budget.
Members' assistance allowance was increased once again by EUR 1 500 per month only last week.
Madam President, on behalf of the British taxpayer, I beg you to stop this rip-off. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft produced by Mr Fernandes for the 2012 financial year refers to cost-efficiency and consolidation.
Firstly, because the Committee on Budgetary Control is permanently engaged in this debate and also draws attention to ways in which cooperation between the agencies and the performance of their duties can be improved, and also because we are expecting a special report on the agencies this year from the European Court of Auditors and will then have a more objective basis for what is, at present, a somewhat ill-considered discussion, particularly with regard to the question of how the agencies are managed and how we may be able to achieve these savings.
Speaking personally, I would question whether it is really a good idea to build new buildings for the European Parliament in Brussels because this strategy really only makes sense if real estate prices in Brussels continuously rise.
Above all, we need to know how the operating costs and follow-up costs of this institution are to be covered. (DA) Madam President, I would also like to thank Mr Fernandes for an excellent report, and I would like to thank Commissioner Lewandowski in particular for his letter to the institutions regarding reining in our administrative expenditure this year.
However, I think that we in Parliament have a particular responsibility to demonstrate that we can show restraint.
I think it is an excellent idea to have this House of European History as part of our visitor services.
Unfortunately, our biggest cost is something that we cannot do anything about.
Thank you, Madam President. (CS) Madam President, it is clear that the entire European Union and its Member States will still be feeling the lingering effects of the economic and financial crisis in 2012.
I am pleased to find this fact in the report, and to see that the report emphasises this fact.
I am referring, in particular, to Parliament's information technology and internal security, partly in the light of recent events of which we are all well aware: the theft at the post office last month.
I would not want the European Parliament to be anything less than rigorous in this area. (NL) Madam President, last week, I was asked by several voters in Flanders how it could possibly be that we, as members of the European Parliament, are still receiving EUR 1 500 a month to recruit additional staff at a time of economic problems and uncertainty, and at the very time when ordinary people are having to tighten their belts.
I hope that we will now focus on areas where savings can truly be made. (SK) Madam President, I regard it as very important from a political perspective that the guidelines for the 2012 budget reflect the economic and political circumstances under which it was drawn up.
The three headquarters of the European Parliament and the regular shuttling of thousands of workers and MEPs from Brussels to Strasbourg 12 times a year are well known to the public.
I, too, believe that the 2012 budget should be realistic and adapted to the current economic situation.
Staff and buildings policies are the two main areas in which our administrative expenditure is concentrated, as is clearly demonstrated by the report.
The tough policy we are applying to budgets - starting with those of Member States - should, in the medium-term, also make us consider the desirability of retaining three seats of Parliament, an admittedly complex issue, but one which we cannot fail to address. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the debate and I can assure you that the Bureau's proposal is a model of rigour, transparency and sound administration, and I wish to emphasise three points in particular.
The third point is that the EUR 1 500 increase was agreed and put into reserve by the Committee on Budgets.
Madam President, I would like to point to one minor area in which we could save money, which is software.
In such cases, these funds should not be used up in full.
However, I would agree with those members who have said that savings are necessary, especially making budget savings.
I would like to hear the Commissioner comment, in particular, on whether he is likely to encounter any difficulties in implementing the next budget in 2012 because of this actual decrease in the European budget as compared to the national budgets of the Member States.
However, we have already gone further than guidelines and set a specific objective: we want a neutral increase, which means that the 2012 budget will not increase above inflation.
The sum to which everyone is referring - which is not for Members and which refers to the possibility of taking on another assistant - was already set out in 2010 and there has been no change in budgetary terms, no budgetary increase in 2011.
The vote will take place at 11:30 on Wednesday, 9 March 2011.
