I am voting in favour of this candidate, but I believe that more thought needs to be given to the type of qualifications that Members of the Court of Auditors ought to have.
I supported the nomination of Hans Gustaf Wessberg as a Member of the Court of Auditors because he has over 30 years of professional experience of high level management in public institutions as well as private enterprises in Sweden.
A large part of his career has been devoted to improving conditions for private enterprises in Sweden, as manager in organisations representing industry interests in public life.
Wessberg for his nomination as a member of the Court of Auditors shows skills and experience that are certainly in line with the technical and scientific standards required by the position.
I therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a European Parliament decision.
in writing. - I voted for Sweden's nomination of H.G.
Wessberg to join the European Court of Auditors and replace Lars Heikensten.
When the Budgetary Control Committee interviewed Mr Wessberg on 24 May 2011, MEPs praised his past performance in both the private and public sectors.
Once appointed, H.G.
Wessberg will serve until the end of Sweden's mandate, that is until March 2012, and could then be re-elected for another mandate of six years.
I wish Mr Wessberg every success in the important office for which he has been chosen, and I am convinced that he will carry out the functions for which he has now been appointed with complete dedication and competence.
in writing. - I voted to support Sweden's nomination of H.G.
Mr Wessberg will replace Lars Heikensten, who left to become executive director of the Nobel Foundation.
Wessberg fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 286(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, delivers a favourable opinion on the nomination of H.G.
Wessberg as a Member of the Court of Auditors; instructs its President to forward this decision to the Council and, for information, the Court of Auditors, the other institutions of the European Union and the audit institutions of the Member States.
I voted against because I think that it is possible to find a more suitable person for the position offered, from a professional point of view.
in writing. - I was pleased to support the Swedish candidate for the Court of Auditors.
Bearing in mind that the accusations date back to 2004, which means that they were made before Mrs Hankiss became a Member of this House, I am voting in favour of waiving her parliamentary immunity.
The Central District Court in Buda, Budapest is asking the European Parliament to lift the immunity of MEP Ágnes Hankiss in connection with renewed criminal proceedings. Ágnes Hankiss was accused by a private plaintiff of allegedly committing the crime of public defamation and, in particular, the crime of defaming the memory of a dead person, the plaintiff's father.
Mrs Wallis claims that the same principles are always applied by the European Parliament with regard to the waiver of the immunity of its Members.
In a case concerning me personally, the Court of Justice ruled in 2010 that Parliament had violated my rights as an MEP - and it violated them again last month, on exactly the same grounds!
By definition, Article 9 applies to activities beyond the scope of this Parliament!
On 12 November 2009, the Supreme Court considered that there was indeed a violation of the substantive provisions of criminal law and ordered a renewed procedure to be conducted by the Central District Court of Buda.
The court is to conduct this renewed procedure in light of considerations stated in the decision of the Supreme Court.
The Central District Court of Buda opened renewed proceedings on 31 March 2010.
On the same day, the proceedings were suspended on the grounds that Ágnes Hankiss enjoys parliamentary immunity as a Member of the European Parliament.
The relevant request for the waiver of that immunity was made by the Court on 6 July 2010.
in writing. - I voted to waive the parliamentary immunity of Ágnes Hankiss, accused of defamation.
Ms Hankiss's immunity was lifted because the events in question took place in 2004, before she was elected to the European Parliament (in July 2009), and because the case does not concern her political activities as an MEP.
in writing. - Since Ágnes Hankiss is accused of alleged defamation under Section 181 of the Hungarian Criminal Code, as a result of a statement made during a programme on 23 January 2004, I voted in favour.
At the sitting of 6 September 2010, the President announced that he had received a letter sent by the Central District Court of Budapest on 6 July 2010 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Hankiss, pursuant to Rule 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was voted for unanimously, concluded that the present case does not come within the scope of the political activities of Mrs Hankiss as a Member of this House.
I therefore support the proposal by the Committee on Legal Affairs and voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Hankiss.
On 23 January 2004, following a statement made during a programme, Mrs Hankiss was accused of an alleged offence of defamation of honour committed in public and, in particular, of defamation of the memory of a dead person.
In an appeal hearing on 25 March 2009, the Budapest Municipal Court acquitted Mrs Hankiss of the charges, but, on 12 November 2009, the Hungarian Supreme Court ordered a renewed procedure to be conducted by the Central District Court of Buda.
The renewed proceedings were opened on 31 March 2010 and suspended the same day because of Mrs Hankiss's parliamentary immunity.
For these reasons, and because the case does not come within the scope of Mrs Hankiss's political activities as a Member of the European Parliament, since it concerns a statement made long before she was elected a Member, I am voting in favour of waiving her parliamentary immunity.
The case relates to an alleged offence of defamation which does not come within the scope of Ms Hankiss' political activities as an MEP, but relates instead to a statement made in 2004, before she was elected an MEP.
I am voting in favour of this report as it covers the Commission's objectives of simplifying the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of textile products.
Regulation (EC) No 1541/98 and Regulation (EEC) No 3030/93, which were initially adopted in order to implement trade policy measures in the textile sector, have now become obsolete instruments that constrain the free market and are poorly adapted to changes in the new regulatory environment.
Until recently, quantitative restrictions on imports originating in World Trade Organisation (WTO) member countries were in force, together with special safeguard provisions for textile products from the People's Republic of China.
That indication is, in fact, contained in the proposal for a regulation on 'Made in' origin marking, which was adopted in this Chamber on 21 October 2010, which introduces a control mechanism and aims to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better, clearer legislative framework for companies and for consumer protection.
I voted in favour of this document, repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1541/98 on proof of origin for certain textile products falling within Section XI of the Combined Nomenclature and released for free circulation in the Community, and on the conditions for the acceptance of such proof and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries.
In 2005, the World Trade Organisation repealed the restrictions on imports originating in Member States, and the European Union should also simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the Community.
I supported the Zahradil report because I think that Council Regulation (EC) No 1541/98 on proof of origin for certain textile products has served its purpose.
The 1998 Council Regulation introduced instruments for controlling the import of textile products, which enabled the WTO Agreement to be implemented.
With the expiry of the WTO Agreement in 2005 and of the special safeguard measures in 2008, the Council Regulation served its purpose, while the import restriction measures it imposed can be managed using other instruments.
Although repealing these regulations might appear to be a positive and welcome step from the standpoint of legislative simplification, it would, on the other hand, mean depriving our textile industry of still valid forms of defence against unfair competition from countries like China.
I have therefore voted against the report.
I voted in favour of this report because its primary aim is to repeal the EU regulation currently in force, laying down additional requirements proving the origin of textile products imported into the EU, thus simplifying the legislation in force and creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
However, such complicated administrative procedures are now no longer proportionate, particularly as another EU regulation imposes an obligation to indicate a product's country of origin in customs documents before it is released for free circulation in the EU market, and consumer protection is also currently being enhanced in the EU by increasing the amount of information provided to consumers.
I am in favour of repealing the Council regulation on proof of origin for certain textile products as I believe that efforts need to be made to simplify the existing legislation in order to create a clearer legislative environment for businesses.
That said, and although it is not directly related to this measure, I would also like to highlight the importance of maintaining the status quo in terms of the current World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, particularly as regards the world market for textiles and clothing, very specifically, the changes to the rules on importing textiles and clothing products into the EU at a time of severe economic downturn in various Member States.
I voted for this report because I believe the Commission proposal contributes to reducing excessive administrative burdens and additional costs for companies by making rules on importing certain textile products more uniform.
Since these products can be freely imported, proving their origin is apparently unnecessary, but there are still some doubts about this facilitating measure.
This report concerns a proposal for a regulation of Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1541/98 on proof of origin for certain textile products, and on the conditions for the acceptance of such proof, and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries.
The changes that have now been introduced into the regulatory environment allow trade policy measures to be improved, especially following the surge in imports from the People's Republic of China, by introducing control instruments for imports of textile products from third countries.
This proposal, which is in line with previous measures, aims to make the lives of major European importers, which are its main beneficiaries, even easier, as they will be able to access raw materials and low-cost finished products, while sacrificing national industry and thousands of jobs.
Despite already being the object of resolutions of this Parliament, the last of which was in 2010, the old request that the country of origin be marked and that information be made available about the origin of various goods has been postponed.
This report adopts the proposal by the Commission to simplify the customs formalities followed by importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the European Union.
It thus proposes to repeal the conditions of acceptance of proofs of origin for certain textiles and textile articles originating in third countries.
This proposal, which is in line with previous measures, aims to make the lives of major European importers, which are its main beneficiaries, even easier, as they will be able to access raw materials and low-cost finished products, while sacrificing national industry and thousands of jobs.
Despite already being the object of resolutions of this Parliament, the last of which was in 2010, the old request that the country of origin be marked and that information be made available about the origin of various goods has been postponed, which we regret.
The legal instrument that is to be abolished relates to the conditions for accepting the evidence of origin of certain textiles and textile products originating in third countries.
In my view, the aim should be to implement trade policy measures that would help to prevent market distortion caused by the sharp growth in imports from third countries, such as China, for example.
Moreover, the Commission's objective is also to enhance the uniformity of the rules for import by aligning the rules relating to imports of textiles with those for other industrial goods, which should improve the overall consistency of the legislative environment in this area.
It is the Commission's view that the very limited trade policy measures in the textiles sector applied by the Union can be managed without imposing the excessive burden of having to present proof of origin for all imports.
We strongly supported this report in view of the EU's policy commitment to simplifying the legislation in force.
European trade policy measures in the textiles sector can be managed without imposing the excessive burden of presenting proof of origin for all imports.
In order to continue controlling imports of textile products still subject to remaining quantitative restrictions and originating from countries that are not yet members of the World Trade Organisation, the EU will now rely on import authorisations.
Meanwhile, concerning the categories of products falling within Section XI of the Combined Nomenclature that are not subject to quantitative import restrictions and are released for free circulation in the EU, a system of ex post statistical surveillance is being applied to monitor their impact on the EU market.
We would point out that, in addition to the abovementioned import control mechanisms, it has been mandatory since 2010 to indicate the country of origin of certain third-country products in order to better inform consumers about their origin.
We should now seek to enhance the uniformity of the rules for import by aligning the rules relating to textile imports with those for other industrial goods, which should improve the overall consistency of the legislative environment in this area.
The outcome of the vote expresses the sense that the indication 'made in' is essential for market transparency and clarifying for consumers the origin of the products that they use.
in writing. - Since the report is on a Commission proposal that aims to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of textile products, I voted in favour.
I voted against this report because it is based on unfounded premises and vague future assumptions.
I am therefore in favour of a regulation that enhances the uniformity of the rules for European textile imports by aligning them with those for other industrial goods.
However, we should bear in mind the fact that, even if we use ex ante and ex post control mechanisms to assess the impact of third-country imports on the European market, the European Union has not yet been able to adopt a control mechanism based on fair and important information for consumers such as that provided by origin marking.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1541/98 on proof of origin for certain textile products falling within Section XI of the Combined Nomenclature and released for free circulation in the Community, and on the conditions for the acceptance of such proof and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries.
I voted in favour with reservations, but did so because, overall, it is positive and is in line with EU policy commitment to simplify the legislation in force, with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities observed by importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the Union, and with the objective of making the rules for importing more uniform, by aligning the rules relating to textile imports with those for other industrial goods, which should improve the overall consistency of the legislative environment in this area.
The aim of the Commission's proposal to repeal Council Regulation (EC) No 1541/98 on proof of origin for certain textile products and to amend Council Regulation (EEC) No 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries is to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the Community.
The requirements for the presentation of proof of origin for textile products were introduced in order to ensure the proper implementation of import restriction measures so as to avoid market disruption caused by imports from the People's Republic of China.
The impact and the number of measures applied by the European Union to imports of these products have gradually diminished in recent years.
in writing. - I have spoken on this issue before and I am voting for this report because I believe EU citizens have the right to know the make-up of the clothes they buy.
This regulation will allow consumers to avoid buying products containing non-textile parts of animal origin, whether for health, ethical or other considerations.
Due to the changes that have taken place in the meantime, particularly as a result of the 2005 World Trade Organisation (WTO) Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, the removal of the first proof of origin for products seems to be justified, and I therefore voted for the repeal of this regulation.
The very limited trade policy measures applied by the EU in the textiles sector can be managed without imposing the excessive burden of presenting proof of origin for all imports.
In fact, in order to continue controlling imports of textile products still subject to remaining quantitative restrictions and originating from Belarus and North Korea, which are not yet members of the World Trade Organisation, the EU now relies on import authorisations.
I would also like to point out that in 2010, the European Parliament adopted at first reading the report by Mrs Muscardini on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries ('Made in'), which also concerns textiles and clothing.
In the ambit of the better law making approach, the Commission proposes to repeal a 1998 Council Regulation under which importers have to provide proof of origin of textiles and articles of apparel for EU customs procedures.
The system of import authorisations still remains in place for controls on these imports, which, however, do not pose problems with regard to the functioning of the EU market.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree with its underlying spirit: to simplify and harmonise EU legislation on imports of textile products in order to facilitate trade with third countries.
I believe, in fact, that the limited trade policy measures applied by the EU in the textiles sector can be managed entirely without imposing the excessive burden of presenting proof of origin for all imports.
Besides, import authorisations, ex post statistical surveillance systems and the requirements of single administrative documents already ensure that imports are effectively controlled in the Union.
To complete the picture, however, I look forward to the time when the Muscardini report fully enters into force, as it will enable European consumers to be better informed about the origin of products, including textiles, from third countries.
The legislation being repealed in this case concerns the conditions of acceptance of proof of origin for certain textile products originating in third countries, which established specific requirements by applying quantitative restrictions.
I would also like to point out that the Council has vetoed origin markings in relation to the ad hoc textile measure and is trying to do the same as regards the mandatory indication of place of origin on food labels.
We voted against the report.
in writing. - This Commission proposal simplifies the legislation in force on proving the origin of certain textile products.
In 1998, the EU set out the requirement for importers to present proof of origin for products falling under Section XI of the Combined Nomenclature, listed in Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 3090/93, and which have been made in third countries.
It should be noted that in 2005, quantitative restrictions on textile and clothing imports originating in World Trade Organisation (WTO) member countries were rules, while the rules for the same type of products originating in the People's Republic of China expired at the end of 2008.
In view of this, I am voting in favour of this report, as I believe that it marks a positive step in defining a clearer and simpler legislative environment for European businesses which import textile and footwear products originating in third countries for which there continue to be quantitative restrictions because they are not WTO members.
I voted in favour of the report on proof of origin for certain textile products.
I am voting in favour of the participation of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA), as the EMCDDA is open to the participation of any third country, and particularly bearing in mind that Croatia is a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled on the way from the production countries to consumer countries.
That is why I endorsed the report by our fellow Member, Mrs Serracchiani, on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the EMCDDA.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction plays a vital role in collecting data on drugs and drug addiction and preparing objective, reliable and comparable information at European level.
The information is intended to provide a basis for analysing the demand for drugs, ways of reducing it, and the drug market in general.
In 2005, the Republic of Croatia asked to participate in the activities of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction.
The Republic of Croatia is a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled on the way from the production countries to consumer countries.
Croatia is a transit route through which illegal drugs are smuggled on the way from production countries to consumer countries.
That is why I am voting for this recommendation.
I support the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction because the number of deaths, compared with last year, is falling for all drugs except heroin, and progress is being achieved as a whole in the fight against drug use.
I voted in favour of Mrs Serracchiani's report on the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction because I believe it would represent a highly beneficial exchange for both parties.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that Croatia's participation in the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) is vital for combating illicit drug use and trafficking, both within Croatia itself, and throughout the EU.
According to the agreement, Croatia will take part in the Centre's work programme, will satisfy the obligations laid down in EU legislation, and will share data with the EMCDDA, subject to the data protection requirements of the Union.
The Republic of Croatia is an important transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled from the production countries to consumer countries.
Firstly, I would like to congratulate the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) on the important work that it has been carrying out to reduce the quantity of drugs and of related phenomena in Europe.
I agree with the participation of Croatia in the EMCDDA's activities, given the fact that the country has become part of a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled, due to its strategic location, and I believe that the adoption of the European programme will lead to the improvement of health care and social peace, at both European and international level.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) plays a vital role in collecting data about drugs and drug addiction, adding to the store of objective, reliable and comparable data at European level, which provides a basis for analysing demand for drugs and ways of reducing it, as well as phenomena associated with the drug market in general.
Any third countries sharing the interests of the Union and its Member States regarding the EMCDDA's objectives and work can participate in that work.
The proposal set out in the report regarding Croatia's compliance with its obligations to the EMCDDA and the EU is very positive.
I am voting in favour of this report as I believe that this link between Croatia and the EU will contribute not only to a more effective fight against the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction, but also to the creation of greater solidarity between the EU and Croatia, which is an accession candidate, and will - at least, I hope so - shortly become a fully fledged Member State.
As I see it, this report also illustrates the need for better information exchange between Member States and European agencies and, above all, for Croatia's potential accession to be prepared in a calmer manner than the 'major' enlargement of 2004 and 2007, when the countries of Central and Eastern Europe joined the EU.
I voted in favour of the report on the participation of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) as I believe that this is a positive step, given that Croatia is expected to accede to the EU shortly, bur mainly because the consumption and trafficking of illicit drugs are global phenomena with severe socio-economic and health repercussions.
I am therefore voting in favour of the decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the EU, of an agreement between the EU and the Republic of Croatia for this purpose.
By adopting this report, Parliament has given its support to the agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the latter's participation in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA).
Although, as the rapporteur mentions, Croatia's entry into the EU is envisaged for the second half of 2012 or early 2013, its participation in the EMCDDA could be accepted given that this country is making an effort to investigate and prosecute drug-related crime.
Croatia straddles the transit route through which drugs are illegally smuggled from producer countries to consumer countries.
The use and smuggling of illegal drugs are global phenomena which post a threat to health and social stability.
According to statistics compiled by the Centre, 75 million Europeans have already tried cannabis and 14 million Europeans have already tried cocaine at least once.
This agreement will therefore not only make it possible to obtain factual and objective information from Croatia concerning drugs and drug addiction and their consequences, but will also enable Croatia, through these exchanges of information and best practices, to understand the nature of this phenomenon and better respond to it.
The information is intended to provide a basis for analysing the demand for drugs and ways of reducing it, as well as phenomena associated with the drug market in general.
The Republic of Croatia will take part in the Centre's work programme, will satisfy the obligations of the regulation, will be linked to the European Information Network on Drugs and Drug Addiction (REITOX) and will share data with the EMCDDA, subject to the data protection requirements of the Union and national laws.
The Republic of Croatia will also contribute financially to the Union to cover the cost of its participation and will also participate in the Management Board of the Centre without the right to vote until such time as it becomes a member of the European Union.
Croatia, as a candidate country for EU membership, has a duty to adapt its legal system to the system which is in force in the countries of the Union.
The Republic of Croatia will, in fact, take part in the Centre's European work programme on drugs and drug addiction.
The Centre's main task is to collect data on drugs and drug addiction in order to prepare and publish objective, reliable and comparable information at European level.
The subject is clearly very important, both for its marked impact on health protection and for the fight against the criminal activities associated with the drug market.
This draft Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) is important as Croatia is one of the main entry points for drugs in Europe.
With a view to tackling drug trafficking effectively, which not only poses a threat to Croatia but to the European Union as well, it is important that Croatia is also linked to the European Information Network on Drugs and Drug Addiction (REITOX) and actively and directly involved in exchanging data with the EMCDDA.
Illicit drug use and trafficking are worldwide phenomena that threaten health and social stability.
In my opinion, the establishment of high quality international cooperation in the fight against the illegal drugs trade, not only at the European level but especially at the global level, would be one way to improve the effectiveness of the fight against this kind of trade.
The Republic of Croatia is a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled on the way from the production countries to consumer countries.
Moreover, in the last 10 years, the number of drug-related deaths has been gradually increasing.
The Republic of Croatia will accordingly take part in the Centre's work programme, be linked to the European Information Network on Drugs and Drug Addiction (REITOX) and share data with the EMCDDA.
in writing. - As is known, the Centre is working basically with policy makers at the level of the Community and the Member States, which thus help to develop a strategy for combating drugs and providing information to the general public.
Furthermore, this will create an ideal framework for Croatia to obtain information on other EU Member States' best practices in addressing problems related to drugs and drug addiction.
The main task of the EMCDDA is to collect data on drugs and drug addiction, and to prepare and publish objective, reliable and comparable information at European level.
This information provides a basis for analysing demand for drugs and ways of reducing it, as well as phenomena associated with the drug market in general.
Indeed, Croatia, like certain other European countries, is a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled on the way from production countries to consumer countries.
The Centre is open to the participation of any third country that shares the interests of the Union and its Member States in its objectives and work.
The agreement was subsequently revised in December 2009 in light of the Treaty of Lisbon.
It should be pointed out that Croatia is already part of Reitox, the European Information Network on Drugs and Drug Addiction.
Croatia asked to join the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in 2005.
I therefore find the rapporteur's position entirely acceptable and I support this recommendation.
In its fight against drug addiction and trafficking, Croatia has already implemented measures to address this at a national level, both in terms of preventing consumption and in terms of supporting the investigation of drug-related crime.
in writing. - We supported the mandate of EMCDDA in 2006.
As regards the specific situation in Croatia, it is a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled on their way from the producer countries to consumer countries.
In 2008, the total number of reported drug-related offences was 7 168.
In 2009, a total of 7 934 persons were treated by the national drug addiction institutes.
I voted in favour of this recommendation because I consider the protection of European citizens' health and social stability to be a priority that should be borne in mind in the fight against illicit drug use and trafficking.
Its participation in the work programme of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction will provide the European Union with factual information on drug trafficking and use in Croatia, and will enable Croatia to understand the scale of its drug-related problems and adopt best practice to deal with them.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which integrates Croatia into the fight against drugs in the EU.
The Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia represents an efficient means for the EU and Croatia to reduce and impede the trade in, and consumption of, drugs on the basis of the sharing of data and experience in relation to drugs and their abuse, and in light of the fact that one EU citizen dies of an overdose every hour.
Account needs to be taken of the fact that Croatia will accede to the European Union in 2012 or 2013 and that, as a result of its geographical location, it represents a good trans-shipment point for drug dealers.
I voted for Mrs Auconie's report.
Furthermore, a large number of Member States in the euro area have signed or may wish to sign agreements for the production of banknotes and coins abroad.
I support the report on the draft Council Regulation concerning the extension of the scope of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the professional cross-border transport of euro cash by road between euro area Member States.
This is because it is a good idea to also include in the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the cross-border transport of euro cash by road between euro area Member States the territory of Member States which are about to introduce the euro, since there is normally an increased need for euro cash transportation in the run-up to the changeover.
I agree with extending the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the professional cross-border transport of euro cash by road between euro area Member States to the territory of Member States that are about to introduce the euro.
I welcome this extension of the scope (although it should be noted that the legal basis here is Article 352 TFEU, which means that Parliament merely has the power of consent).
I voted in favour of this recommendation as I believe that the scope of this regulation should be able to be extended to the territory of any Member State about to join the euro.
This decision will contribute to a more harmonious transition to the euro, whilst adequately responding to the increased need for cross-border transportation of euro cash in the run-up to the changeover.
I agree with the rapporteur in the follow-up to her initial report on extending the regulation on the professional cross-border transport of euro cash to the territory of Member States that are about to introduce the euro.
The aim of this provision is to simplify regulatory restrictions in order to make it possible for euro notes and coins to circulate more easily between Member States and to ensure a high level of professionalism and security within the euro area.
I believe that it is appropriate to widen the scope of application of the regulation on the cross-border transportation of euro cash by road between euro area Member States, and to apply its provisions on the territory of Member States that are preparing to introduce the euro.
This new proposal for a regulation seeks to extend the scope of the regulation on cross-border transport of euro cash by road between euro area Member States to the territory of Member States that are about to introduce the euro.
The principal proposal is to extend the scope of the regulation on cross-border transport between euro area Member States, not forgetting that there is an increased need for euro cash transport in the run-up to the changeover to the euro as the national currency of new Member States.
For these reasons, and to ensure that this issue is clearly regulated, I have voted in favour of the regulation in question.
I voted in favour of this recommendation because I believe the scope of the regulation on the professional cross-border transport of euro cash by road between Member States should be extended to the territory of countries that are about to introduce the single currency.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which has provisions to allow a greater volume of euro cash to travel to countries which are due to adopt the euro to cope with demand.
I supported this report because it improves the safety and training of professionals who transport euro cash.
I voted in favour of the draft Council Regulation concerning the extension of the scope of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the professional cross-border transport of euro cash between euro area Member States.
I am voting in favour of the report in question, bearing in mind that satellite navigation systems should ensure interoperability between the various systems.
Indeed, I am in favour of the application of GNSS functions to different modes of transport and of the proper implementation of research and funding in this area.
On 14 June 2010, the Commission published its Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS), which included 24 specific recommendations for action.
The action plan was prepared by taking into account the general deployment of global satellite navigation systems and, specifically, the development and use of EGNOS (European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service).
The EU launched the EGNOS project (and Galileo) to provide signals guaranteed for civilian use and to ensure that European industry at all levels has an opportunity to compete in this growing strategic market.
EGNOS will offer more possibilities (EGNOS is ten times more accurate than GPS) when Galileo becomes operational in 2013.
The Commission is best placed to coordinate the implementation of the action plan to avoid duplication at Member State level and to ensure overall progress in various EU policy fields covered by GNSS applications.
These systems are used everywhere, today, in every form of transport.
The continued expansion of this sector means that the value of European systems is projected to reach a level of EUR 230 billion by 2025.
The EU's EGNOS and Galileo projects can contribute to competitiveness in every area of this sector of services, because they are markedly better and more accurate than the GPS system while also being compatible with it.
They are estimated at around EUR 800 million per year.
in writing. - (BG) I support the report on transport applications of global navigation satellite systems - short- and medium-term EU policy, because the navigation systems market is huge.
The proposal will help avoid duplication at Member State level and ensure overall progress in the multiplicity of EU policy fields in this sector.
On the whole, the European navigation system (10 times more accurate than GPS) will make an important contribution to safety and environmental objectives in road transport and to freer traffic flow through providing the opportunity for road tolling.
I have taken a prudent approach and decided to abstain on Mrs Ţicău's report.
Although an action plan on global navigation satellite systems might be considered strategic, to provide signals guaranteed for civilian use and to ensure that European industry at all levels has an opportunity to compete in its growing market share, there are many key points that have not been addressed.
Among these are the possible data protection risks and especially the uncertainty about how the annual maintenance cost of Galileo, which is estimated at around EUR 800 million, will be financed.
The aim of the European Parliament resolution of 7 June 2011 is to encourage the European Commission to take targeted action to promote the development of global navigation satellite systems.
It is important that the plan does not founder in an excessive number of initiatives, and get bogged down in mere consultations, and that it really is implemented by 2013.
According to current estimates, global navigation satellite systems are expected to earn the European economy between EUR 55 and 63 billion over the next 20 years.
In the light of this, I voted in favour of Mrs Ţicău's own-initiative report, which calls on the Commission to provide adequate funding for the development of applications based on the European global navigation satellite system, EGNOS and Galileo.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that the application of the proposed Action Plan on the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) will contribute to the establishment of a transport network that is more efficient through safer, more environmentally friendly and more economical modes of transport.
Global navigation systems are part of everyday life in the transport sector, and they will have growing importance in a world that increasingly functions as part of a network, and where trade and rapid communication are essential.
The commercial advantages and value of such systems are obvious, and there is understandable European interest in having as many of these solutions as possible, and in these operating without depending on third parties.
The way these systems are funded requires particularly strict handling in order to avoid waste, and an imaginative approach is also needed in order to garner support and partners.
This report, drafted by Mrs Ţicău, concerns transport applications of navigation satellite systems for the EU, following the publication of the Commission's Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Applications on 14 June 2010.
This sector has experienced exponential growth since 2000, which saw the first provision of Global Positioning System (GPS) services, going from EUR 124 billion in 2008 to an estimated global market value in the region of EUR 230 billion in 2025.
It is expected that accuracy to 45 centimetres will be possible in the near future.
I would congratulate the rapporteur, and I welcome the adoption of this report, which I voted for, as it will allow the EU to increase its market share and enhance Europe's competitiveness in a strategic and growing market.
GNSS can also play a vital role in supporting and promoting the use of so-called intelligent transport systems.
The rapporteur addresses some of these aspects.
We agree with a GNSS that can support the development, modernisation and diversification of public services, especially in the area of transport.
In view of this, we would question the limits of the potential use of these programmes in the context of assumed competition between the EU and the United States with regard to the functionality and efficiency of these systems.
These systems can also play a vital role in supporting and promoting the use of so-called intelligent transport systems.
In view of this, we would question the limits of the potential use of these programmes in a context of assumed competition between the EU and the United States with regard to the functionality and efficiency of these systems.
I endorsed this document because, on 14 June 2010, the Commission published its Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Applications, which included 24 specific recommendations for action.
The action plan was prepared by taking into account the general deployment of global satellite navigation systems and, specifically, the development and use of EGNOS (European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service).
GNSS are important for developing Intelligent Transport Systems (ITSs), because ITSs can provide more efficient, cleaner and safer transport solutions, and proper implementation of a number of ITS services requires fully operational GNSS systems.
EGNOS and Galileo can make an important contribution to road traffic management and an awareness-raising campaign in that sector is required in order to increase the use of the opportunities it provides in relation to fee collection, eCall, online booking of safe parking sites for trucks, and real-time tracking to contribute to safer and more environmentally friendly road transport.
At the same time, GNSS is part of the EU 2020 strategy's key innovation objectives.
in writing. - I welcome the Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Applications (COM(2010)308), which aims to promote the development of downstream applications through certification, standardisation and coordination with the industry and other countries, as well as by disseminating information, raising awareness, implementing regulatory measures and increasing funding.
With the publication of the Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Applications and the development and deployment of EGNOS (European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service), the European Union has sought to point out civilian uses and ensure that European industry at all levels has an opportunity to compete in this fast-growing strategic market.
In fact, for this system to be fully effective from a transport perspective, its range has to go beyond the borders of Europe to include our near neighbours.
To achieve these objectives, we will need adequate investment in the European research and development sector.
For the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) to be fully effective from a transport perspective, its range has to be the whole of the Union, and indeed beyond, to cover our closest neighbours.
It is also clear that the EGNOS and GNSS systems can, in general, make an important contribution to road safety and environmental objectives, and to freer road traffic flow, due to their availability for use in road tolling.
Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) applications are a central and crucial business component in all transport-related sectors, and their effective functioning makes transport safer, more environmentally friendly and more cost-effective.
Furthermore, satellite navigation systems must provide interoperability with different systems, including traditional systems.
in writing. - Satellite navigation systems should ensure interoperability between different systems and should also allow intermodal use in passenger and freight transport services.
I voted in favour of this resolution on EU policy in the short and medium term on transport applications of Global Navigation Satellite Systems, above all because, across the entire EU, significant attention should be paid to the GNSS and Galileo projects in the transport sector.
Furthermore, it is very important to ensure appropriate and sufficient funding for these projects, according to criteria of transparency and proportionality, with particular attention being paid to SMEs.
It is crucial for European satellite radio navigation programmes to be adapted to multi-modal services and applied throughout Europe, not only in certain countries, because the effective implementation of the programmes mentioned would improve freight transport efficiency and help to address many transport safety and environmental issues.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Ţicău because I think that new technologies such as satellite navigation systems, which are becoming increasingly widespread and benefit all of society, should be applied to the transport sector.
In the global system in which we live, the EU must adapt its policies to the needs of the various sectors and develop a global satellite navigation system that integrates perfectly with the well-known GPS system so as to provide immediate information with no margin for error.
With a booming market and an estimated turnover of more than EUR 200 billion over the next 10 years, satellite navigation needs adequate funding to support its development in practice.
On 14 June 2010, the Commission published its Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Applications, which included 24 specific recommendations for action.
This sector as a whole has experienced enormous expansion since the first provision of Global Positioning System (GPS) services from US satellite facilities in 2000.
This project aims to provide signals guaranteed for civilian use and to ensure that European industry at all levels has an opportunity to compete in this growing strategic market.
These aspects have immediate and important implications for the transport sector, including Advanced Driver Assistance Systems, and I am therefore voting in favour.
The global satellite navigation systems sector has experienced strong growth since 2000, when the systems were first used in the United States.
The estimated global market value in 2025 is EUR 230 billion, 20% of which will come from intelligent transport systems and 5% from safety applications.
In June 2010, the Commission published the Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Applications and, specifically, the European EGNOS system: this action plan also includes 24 specific recommendations for action.
in writing. - The Commission's Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite Systems shows there is huge demand in a market projected to be worth EUR 230 billion by 2025.
We must ensure we take the necessary steps to ensure this industry achieves its full potential.
This system has obvious uses in the fields of air and sea transport and can also be used in road transport.
For instance, it is estimated that in the near future, it will be possible to achieve geographic locations accurate to 45 centimetres.
For these reasons, I voted for this report.
In 2010, the Commission published the Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Applications.
The general background to the action plan is the general deployment of global satellite navigation systems and, specifically, the development and deployment of EGNOS (European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service).
The EU has launched the EGNOS project (and Galileo) to provide signals guaranteed for civilian use and to ensure that European industry at all levels has an opportunity to compete in this growing strategic market.
On 14 June 2010, the Commission published its Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS), which included 24 specific recommendations for action.
The sector as a whole has experienced enormous expansion since the first provision of GPS services from American satellite facilities in 2000.
The EU launched the EGNOS project (and Galileo) to provide signals guaranteed for civilian use and to ensure that European industry at all levels has an opportunity to compete in this growing strategic market.
EGNOS is 10 times more accurate than GPS.
The EU is, in fact, the only trading block that does not provide direct funding to its GNSS programme.
The report on transport applications of global navigation satellite systems supports and highlights the role and importance of the Commission's 2010-2013 action plan in this area and its impact on transport.
It envisages the use and development of global navigation satellite systems in all forms of transport.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which deals with developing and deploying European systems to exploit Galileo and other satellite systems and their applications in the transport domain.
Global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) currently have implications for all EU policies, and their development and application will have a catalytic effect on implementing the Europe 2020 strategy and on creating a strategic and competitive European sector.
GNSS applications and services in the area of transport have various implications for security, for effectiveness, and for the economic and environmental costs of all modes of transport.
Following the failure of Europe's market share in the growing satellite navigation systems market to live up to expectations, in June last year, the Commission brought forward an action plan on global navigation satellite system (GNSS) applications.
The Commission sensibly chose a targeted action plan, the recommendations of which not only include the realisation of the Single European Sky - already a priority that the Union has confirmed many times - but in the sphere of road transport, too, GNSS is to make an important contribution to attaining our safety and environmental protection targets.
Taken as a whole, the action plan is designed to ensure that the European market, too, can compete in this sector, the worldwide market value of which is forecast to further grow to EUR 230 billion by 2025.
Unfortunately, as the rapporteur has emphasised in her document, introduction of the Galileo system continues to be beset by new problems.
Without Galileo, we will not have SESAR, and without SESAR, we will not achieve Single European Sky 2.
I am voting for the report in question as there needs to be a framework for assessing individual air agreements, although Parliament needs to monitor the negotiations closely, instead of being left behind and only deciding whether to accept or reject the final text.
The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent was required for the conclusion of an international agreement.
That is why I am in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Brian Simpson, on the implementation of a set of criteria for evaluating the content of these agreements.
Comprehensive air agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can deliver substantial benefits to passengers, freight operators and airlines, by means of both market access and regulatory convergence to promote fair competition, including issues with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards.
The new Parliamentary powers established by the Treaty bring with them new responsibilities to ensure that Parliament and its responsible committee are well informed about the preparation of the agreements to which it will subsequently be asked to give its consent.
In view of this change, I welcome the corresponding new Parliamentary responsibility to monitor the conduct of negotiations more closely.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that comprehensive EU air agreements with neighbouring countries can only benefit passengers, freight operators and airlines in many respects: maintaining security and environmental standards and promoting a favourable business environment.
The aim of this report is to simplify and clarify the conclusion of air transport agreements and the adoption of decisions on such agreements, with the European Parliament informing the Commission in advance about the criteria upon which it will base its decision whether or not to consent to the conclusion of a particular agreement on behalf of the EU.
The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of international agreements.
Comprehensive agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can provide substantial benefits by offering passengers and freight operators improved services - in terms of both variety and cost - while allowing airlines new opportunities and a competitive edge.
Indeed, regulatory convergence can do much to promote fair competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies, social and environmental standards.
The economic growth of this region enhances the value of such agreements.
I voted in favour of this own-initiative report because the increasingly important contribution of the aviation sector brings with it many advantages for the European economy, but also quite a few disadvantages.
This is not only beneficial to industry in the countries involved, but also constitutes an opportunity to standardise and strengthen social and environmental standards.
The conclusion of comprehensive agreements on air transport with neighbouring countries or significant global partners is of particular importance in terms of market access and of regulatory convergence, as it promotes fair competition, an equal level of social and environmental standards, and so on.
In terms of horizontal agreements, it is also important to align existing bilateral agreements with EU law, so as to ensure greater legal certainty, increase transparency and provide additional benefits in terms of simplification, while ensuring that all Union airlines will enjoy the same rights.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament has come to play a more prominent role in this area, making its approval necessary for the conclusion of these international agreements.
Firstly, the report recommends increasing the role of the European Parliament, under new powers conferred on it by the Treaty of Lisbon with regard to the conclusion of international agreements with third countries.
Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament has had more powers to intervene in the conclusion of international agreements between the European Union and third countries.
I voted in favour of the report on international air agreements under the Treaty of Lisbon, as it highlights the importance of Parliament being 'immediately and fully informed at all stages' of the process of negotiating agreements between the EU and third countries or international organisations.
The Treaty of Lisbon has given Parliament new powers on the approval of international agreements.
The international air agreements provided for under the Treaty of Lisbon are supranational agreements intended to overlap with the existing bilateral agreements implemented by the Member States.
We have reiterated our position against this principle in successive agreements upon which Parliament has delivered opinions, along with criticism of the comprehensive nature of these agreements, which are, without exception, aimed at the liberalisation and privatisation of the sector.
However, the reality in this and in other sectors which have seen increased liberalisation, such as rail transport, belies these promises of benefits.
This report relates to international air agreements under the Treaty of Lisbon.
The rapporteur states that 'air agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can deliver substantial benefits to passengers, freight operators and airlines, by means [...] of market access'.
Moreover, the relevant criteria for air agreements with third countries should include the possibility of a balanced approach to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair economic competition in the area of state subsidies and environmental and social standards.
The report emphasises fair competition and, hence, the need to monitor, among other things, state funding, while having regard to environmental issues and ensuring a high level of passenger rights.
I agreed with this document because the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent was required for the conclusion of an international agreement.
Air agreements now fall within this category because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies.
We therefore expect the Commission to respond to our call for it to maintain the flow of information and to provide the responsible committee with comprehensive information about the intention to propose negotiations with a view to concluding and amending international air agreements, so that Parliament as a whole can express its opinion in full knowledge of the facts.
The Treaty of Lisbon introduces new parliamentary competences, thereby granting the European Parliament greater decision-making powers, along with responsibility for ensuring the smooth flow of business, providing information and guaranteeing citizens' safety.
in writing. - I voted for this report which considers that comprehensive air agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can deliver substantial benefits to passengers, freight operators and airlines, by means both of market access and of regulatory convergence to promote fair competition, including with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards, providing certain standards and conditions are met.
We agree with the Committee on Transport and Tourism's idea to set out some general principles regarding how air agreements should be evaluated in terms of substance.
Comprehensive agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can provide substantial benefits by offering European passengers and freight operators improved services - in terms of both variety and cost - while giving airlines new profit-making opportunities.
Lastly, we maintain that it is important to open negotiations with important trading partners in Asia, including the People's Republic of China and India, since the economic growth of that entire region makes such agreements ever more significant from the point of view of developing world trade.
The adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon has increased the number of cases in which Parliament's approval is needed to conclude an international agreement.
Air services agreements now fall into this category, as they cover an area to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies.
Parliament's new powers, provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon, bring with them a new responsibility to ensure that Parliament and its competent committee are well informed about the preparation of the agreements to which it will subsequently be asked to give its consent.
This implies a corresponding responsibility to monitor how negotiations are conducted more closely.
in writing. - The report covers the framework to evaluate individual air agreements, taking into account the changes under the Lisbon Treaty, to be used for all future negotiations, conclusions and parliamentary approval thereof (via consent).
Relevant criteria for air agreements with third countries include balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair competition in terms of state subsidies, environmental and social standards.
Comprehensive air agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can deliver benefits not only to freight operators and airlines, but also to passengers.
Above all, such agreements guarantee the same rights to all Union airlines.
Furthermore, high standards in terms of air safety and security will be applied and these are vitally important to passengers, crew and the whole aviation sector in general.
The Treaty of Lisbon, which has been in force since 1 December 2009, has increased the number of cases in which Parliament's approval is needed to conclude international agreements.
Air services agreements now fall into this category, as they cover an area to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies.
Previously, it was only necessary to consult Parliament about these agreements.
In view of this change, the Committee on Transport and Tourism has decided to draft an own-initiative report with the aim of setting out some general principles regarding how air agreements should be evaluated by Parliament in terms of substance, rather than being confronted with the final decision and merely being able to adopt or reject it.
Parliament's new powers, provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon, bring with them new responsibilities to ensure that Parliament and its competent committee are well informed about the preparation of the agreements to which it will subsequently be asked to give its consent.
This implies a corresponding responsibility to monitor how negotiations are conducted more closely.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism decided to draft an own-initiative report with the aim of setting out some general principles regarding how air agreements should be evaluated, both in terms of substance and in terms of the procedures the Committee might adopt to ensure that it is well informed throughout the course of negotiations, and has an opportunity to express its priorities well before being confronted with the yes/no choice of consent.
These agreements can be split into three categories: horizontal agreements, which align existing bilateral agreements; comprehensive agreements, which seek to ensure fair competition; and lastly, safety agreements, which are intended to ensure a high level of civil aviation safety.
Furthermore, the report recommends a set of criteria for assessing the content of the agreements, including balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, and fair competition with regard to state, environmental and social subsidies.
As the Treaty of Lisbon has increased the range of Parliament's powers with respect to the conclusion of international agreements, it is necessary, in the process of redefining its status, to offer new forms of legal framework for its action.
Underpinned by the need to involve Parliament throughout the process, it is also necessary to draw attention, even if only in general terms, to aspects such as the terms under which information is provided or the stages at which it should be made available.
in writing. - I voted in favour.
Previously, Parliament had only been consulted on such agreements.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism quite often has to assess and deal with various aviation agreements.
in writing. - This report provides for a framework to be established in order that Parliament can undertake its obligations under the Lisbon Treaty in regard to international air agreements.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism were keen to ensure that in dealing with individual agreements with individual sovereign countries, Parliament used the same procedures and guidelines for rapporteurs to work with in order to give us a consistent approach and to give us the opportunity to consider important aspects, including relevant safety and social conditions.
This report contains guidelines on how air agreements should be analysed in terms of content and procedures to be adopted.
I am voting in favour of this agreement as I consider it essential that the position adopted by the European Commission, and stressed in this report, expresses the fact that Parliament should regularly monitor the entire process through the sharing of information, and that the Commission should submit a report analysing the strengths and weaknesses of the existing agreements at least every three years.
The agreements should be adopted through a fruitful interinstitutional agreement that enables the European institutions to participate actively in them.
Furthermore, agreements on air transport with third countries help to develop international air transport and safeguard security of law.
in writing. - (DE) The result of the new competences given to Parliament under the Treaty of Lisbon is that this House will, in future, be presented with international air agreements to evaluate and approve on a more frequent basis.
Although he does recognise the benefits of such agreements in principle, the rapporteur does not forego a differentiated approach and, on several occasions, calls for a constructive dialogue between the Commission and Parliament.
I welcome the results of today's vote, particularly in view of the fact that I was rapporteur for the document on the air transport agreement between the European Union and the United States, which was a document of particular importance.
This is an unacceptable situation.
I agree, therefore, with the main thesis of the Simpson report on international air agreements, which has been adopted today.
The European Parliament should have been involved in the negotiations from the very beginning, or should at least have been kept informed as to their progress.
Eurovignette III will allow the Member States to charge road users, if they choose, for external costs, namely pollution, air and noise, so that the 'polluter pays' principle is introduced to road transport.
I therefore voted in favour of Saïd El Khadraoui's report.
The Eurovignette Directive already involves charges, but Member States are not obliged to impose these charges.
The Eurovignette is currently in operation on 15 000 km of European motorways, including half of the EU's tolled motorways.
While I am in favour of addressing air and noise pollution and of encouraging people to use cleaner vehicles, if this directive were to be extended and tolls for noise and air pollution were to be included, Irish hauliers taking Irish exports to Europe would suffer greatly as a consequence.
I voted in favour of this joint position on the Eurovignette Directive presented at second reading by the Council and Parliament.
The directive's main objectives are to allow Member States to charge road users for some external costs, in other words, to apply the 'polluter pays' principle, and also to give Member States additional possibilities to make their national road charging systems more efficient.
Indeed, Member States will only have the possibility, but in no way will they be obliged, of making heavy goods vehicles pay for the external costs they cause.
The principle of transparency of revenue and investment is also on the record which, we hope, will be a precedent in assessing public policies: indeed, Member States will have to report to the Commission on a regular basis.
The report we are discussing today is particularly important because it provides for the amendment of Directive 1999/62/EC on the charging of heavy goods vehicles.
I believe that the submission of this proposal for a new directive, the fruit of the compromise reached between the Hungarian Presidency, the Commission and Parliament, is very damaging to the Italian economy, since Italy transports around a third - or approximately EUR 200 billion a year - of all the traded goods hauled on Europe's roads.
What is more, the effectiveness of the measure has not been proven: road transport and its associated pollution costs will continue to increase until an intermodal infrastructure network has been developed.
in writing. - I voted against this amendment as it is imperative that the Commission is not permitted to establish revenue-raising capabilities, even via an indirect charge, particularly without the unanimous assent of the Council.
The levying of a charge on heavy goods vehicles is a measure which penalises the outlying countries of the EU, such as Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal.
In general, these are the countries hardest hit by the financial crisis, which has led to a fiscal and economic crisis.
I voted against the El Khadraoui report on charging heavy goods vehicles as the proposal allows tariff barriers to be introduced, which will increase the costs for freight operators in the peripheral Member States.
The directive will also allow Member States to offer compensation in exchange for these charges, which could result in the distortion of competition between operators from different EU Member States.
Parliament has just given its go-ahead for new rules on road transport charges, thereby making it possible to ensure the development and funding of a more suitable transport policy with regard to environmental requirements pertaining to pollution and noise.
While road haulage companies will now have to pay the cost of air and noise pollution generated by lorries, Member States will, in return, be obliged to reinvest the revenues obtained from these charges in pan-European transport networks and, especially, in more effective and less polluting transport systems.
It is time that Member States committed to implementing a genuine freight development policy and thus to making consistent use of all rail and road transport infrastructure.
The agreement approved today in effect authorises Member States to charge road haulage companies for the cost of air and noise pollution, in addition to charges on the use of motorway infrastructure.
I therefore still look forward to seeing new proposals which would make these new measures compulsory, which would include in them the cost of all the environmental damage caused and which would extend the 'polluter pays' principle to all forms of transport.
In this regard, Parliament has obliged Member States to invest part of the returns from toll collection in the improvement of traffic flow and mobility infrastructure.
The revision of the Eurovignette Directive requires that heavy good vehicles circulating on European motorways be subject to the 'polluter pays' principle, allowing the Member States to include the cost of noise and air pollution in national tolls.
These countries are not only forced to absorb the cost of fuel, but will now have to do the same with the additional costs of tolls, thereby losing competitiveness.
The levying of a charge on heavy goods vehicles is a measure which penalises the outlying countries of the EU while, at the same time, providing additional revenue for the countries of central Europe.
However, the levying of this charge will remain a reality and will bring an increase in the existing costs for the outlying countries of the EU.
These new provisions of the Eurovignette Directive will allow Member States to charge heavy goods vehicles an amount equal to the cost of noise and air pollution caused by traffic, in addition to the infrastructure charge, at the tolls.
I voted against this report's proposal as I believe it will harm the outlying Member States.
Unfortunately, not only has this investment not been made, but in some countries, including Portugal, we have also seen divestment in this type of transport.
This report addresses some of these issues, but it goes no further than seeking to levy a new charge on heavy goods vehicles, to be added to the existing charges, some of which have been recently increased in Portugal.
Some time has passed since the adoption of the European Parliament's opinion on the Eurovignette III Directive at first reading.
The directive should enable Member States - if they so desire - to collect fees from road users for certain (limited) external costs, so that the 'polluter pays' principle can finally be introduced in the area of road transport.
It also provides Member States with additional possibilities for increasing the effectiveness of national systems for collecting road tolls, which is a better instrument for managing demand in the transport sector.
The opinion of the Council confirmed these objectives, and it is now also desirable for the Commission to take steps which will lead to the lasting sustainable development of transport, cooperation, a harmonised system of tolls and the further internalisation of external costs.
in writing. - The reality is that this proposal will have a disproportionate impact upon the peripheral Member States in the European Union, such as Ireland, as centrally located Member States have the option of switching to rail.
It is estimated by the Irish Exporters Association that a truck travelling from Ireland to mainland Europe via Holyhead and Dover will incur a road use charge of EUR 120 and an external cost of EUR 30.
Therefore, a roundtrip will incur a fee of EUR 300 as a result of this legislation.
Moreover, the road haulage sector employs over 30 000 people in Ireland.
The bottom line is that these new charges will increase the cost of transporting Irish exports into European markets.
I voted against this report as the EU should be seeking ways to improve our competitiveness in line with the Europe 2020 strategy instead of introducing legislation which threatens our competitiveness.
I voted in favour of the report by my colleague, Saïd El Khadraoui, on the revision of the EU Eurovignette legislation, which will allow heavy good vehicles to be charged.
At least 15% of the money collected in charges is invested in other projects related to CO2 reduction.
However, I still believe that these instruments are only economically beneficial and favourable for a few central transit European Union Member States, and therefore completely unfavourable or much less favourable for a large number of European Union Member States, situated near the European Union's borders, both in the east, the south, the west and the north.
I would like to give my full endorsement to the directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles.
I voted against the proposed compromise text, a position in keeping with that of the Italian Government, which has already voiced its opposition to the proposal in the EU Council.
This 1999 directive, revised in 2006, aims to harmonise the charging of heavy good vehicles.
The adopted revision is a first step in internalising external costs in road transport and, hence, a step towards putting the 'polluter pays' principle into practice.
This revision will henceforth allow traffic to be managed better through increased charges in peak periods (not exceeding 175% over five hours), but also provides for a proportionate decrease in low peak charges to avoid penalising road haulage companies financially.
Finally, the resolution encourages Member States to use the amounts raised to finance certain types of sustainable transport projects.
in writing. - I voted for this report revising 'Eurovignette' road haulage tax rules, which will make it possible for Member States to charge hauliers for air and noise pollution costs, in addition to motorway tolls.
This directive will ensure that revenue from these charges is used to improve the performance of transport systems and cut pollution.
Directive 1999/62/EC on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures allows Member States, if they so wish, to also charge road users for some external costs.
The effectiveness of the measure has not been proven: road transport and its associated pollution costs will continue to increase, which is why we, the Italian delegation of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), are against this measure.
This directive makes provision for Member States levying a toll on heavy goods vehicles which includes an amount equal to the cost of noise and air pollution as a result of traffic, in addition to the infrastructure charge.
Rather than solving the problem of pollution, this directive exacerbates the inequality between Member States by placing a greater burden on outlying countries such as Portugal, which are exporters but are not crossed by major transport routes.
These revenues must be exclusively destined for environmental policies.
I am voting in favour of this text to encourage further work to be done and to lend my approval to the Eurovignette concept, whilst regretting these two serious shortcomings.
Environmental concerns can never be jeopardised, but at the same time, they cannot be detached from economic issues; still less in this time of crisis that we are still experiencing, and which continues to buffet the countries of southern Europe, especially my country, Portugal.
In view of this, I cannot agree with the adoption of the 'polluter pays' principle, as this situation will greatly affect those working in the freight transport sector in outlying countries, in particular, Portugal, but not in the richer countries of central and northern Europe.
in writing. - Eurovignette III will allow Member States - if they so wish - to charge road users for external costs (air, noise, pollution), so that finally, the 'polluter pays' principle is introduced in road transport.
At the same time, this should also give rise to an instrument to better manage traffic demand.
This report takes a pragmatic approach in order to reconcile the numerous and varying wishes.
We should also not forget these factors, including when it comes to the idea in the proposal of earmarking the revenue from infrastructure charges.
However, since this report makes very reasonable arguments in this regard, I voted in favour.
I decided to vote against this proposal because it would have a very negative impact on the smallest haulage companies in particular.
My hope, therefore, is that other European countries will adopt the same position as the Italian Government, which has already confirmed that it will not be applying this measure.
I do not agree with the proposal to charge heavy goods vehicles according to air and noise pollution.
Moreover, the charge will not only be applied to motorways in the trans-European road network, but also to other motorways and important roads.
The new Eurovignette Directive, which is intended to encourage the implementation of harmonised charging systems in the Member States in order to improve the efficiency and environmental performance of heavy goods vehicles, will end up penalising certain peripheral Member States, such as Italy, which are countries of departure or destination of goods.
This is why I voted against the report, which amends the 1999 directive.
This report presents a pragmatic approach to not wasting any more time on the adoption of the so-called Eurovignette III Directive on the levying of charges on heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures.
It is intended to achieve the best possible compromise between Parliament and the Council.
In view of this, I voted in favour of this report, as it will allow the Member States, if they so wish, to also charge road users for some limited external costs, with the aim of introducing the 'polluter pays' principle to road transport.
It will also give Member States more opportunities to make their respective national road pricing systems more efficient, which means a better instrument for transport demand management.
It is worth highlighting the proposal to earmark the revenue from charges on external cost and infrastructure to be used for sustainable transport and trans-European networks, in particular.
Effective earmarking of this revenue, which increases accountability and transparency, will not only increase public acceptance but will also ensure the reduction of external costs on road transport.
Under the amended Directive 1999/62/EC, Member States will also be able to charge road users for some (limited) external costs, so that finally, the 'polluter pays' principle is introduced in road transport.
This offers Member States additional opportunities to make their national road charging systems more efficient, which means a better transport-demand-management instrument.
Road toll charges for the transport sector will therefore reflect the cost of noise and air pollution, as well as infrastructure costs.
For these reasons, and for the sake of a better road system in Europe, I voted in favour.
This directive makes provision for Member States levying a toll on heavy goods vehicles which includes an amount equal to the cost of noise and air pollution as a result of traffic, in addition to the infrastructure charge.
Rather than solving the problem of pollution, this directive exacerbates the inequality between Member States by placing a greater burden on outlying countries such as Portugal, which are exporters but are not crossed by major transport routes.
The proposal for revision of the Eurovignette Directive, which is at issue here, is aimed at introducing the 'polluter pays' principle to road transport, allowing the Member States to include the cost of noise and air pollution in national tolls, which means the levying of yet another charge on heavy goods vehicles.
This measure penalises the outlying countries of the European Union, which is particularly onerous in the context of the financial crisis that we are currently experiencing.
For these reasons, I voted against this report.
I voted in favour of this compromise on the revision of the Eurovignette Directive, which aims to set 'polluter pays' road tolls for heavy goods vehicles.
The average additional cost to hauliers should not exceed 4 euro cents per vehicle per kilometre, and the least polluting vehicles, driving during off-peak times, would be exempt.
I welcome the progress made as a positive first step towards a more sustainable road transport system.
The recommendation is the last stage in the procedural process of amending Directive 1999/62/EC on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (Eurovignette).
Charging users for some associated external costs enables Member States to make their national road charging systems more efficient, which means they are better able to manage transport demand.
To conclude, the public will be more supportive if the additional revenue generated from infrastructure and external costs is allocated transparently and effectively, and this would also serve to reduce the external costs of road transport more quickly.
It is a very positive development that the adoption of this directive will end the situation in Estonia in which vehicles from other countries do not pay the tax in Estonia, but our vehicles pay in other countries.
Even though this report has become weaker in many respects during the proceedings, and that Parliament has had to give in on several provisions, this is still a big step forward, and I feel that I must give it my full support.
It is a compromise based on the 'polluter pays' principle, in other words, the principle of making it possible to charge for certain external costs of transport, in the form of pollution, noise and traffic congestion, for example.
Implementing the external costs of transport is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - El Khadraoui has done a great job on this report.
The charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, under the terms of the European Parliament document voted on in plenary today, represents an increase in costs related to the movement of this type of transport.
The Eurovignette is a measure which penalises the outlying countries of the EU at a time when those countries are undergoing a period of economic and financial difficulty, whilst, at the same time, providing additional revenue for the countries of central Europe.
The review of the directive in line with Parliament's position will have considerable negative effects on competitiveness and economic development for several Member States, such as Portugal.
For these reasons, as a matter of national interest and as a member of Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism, I voted against the document tabled in plenary.
Any new EU rules on charging heavy goods vehicles must maintain a balance between the environmental needs and economic interests of the new Member States.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Member States should be given opportunities to make their national road charging systems more efficient.
At the same time, in Lithuania, the funding earmarked for road management and development has dropped by more than 20% in the last few years.
The earmarking of revenues is aimed at promoting acceptance by the public and reducing external road transport costs.
While I agree with the 'polluter pays' principle, levying additional motorway toll charges on international road traffic, particularly without the obligation to use the revenues for investment in infrastructure improvements, is somewhat questionable at a time of economic crisis.
This review should take place by 2013.
I voted in favour of this report.
The environmental accounts show the interaction between business, household and environmental factors.
This is why they must contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making available data about the environmental impact of economic activities.
This is a fundamental issue in particular, but not solely, for environmental policy.
That was the conclusion reached by the European Council in June 2006, when it called on the European Union and its Member States to extend the national accounts to key aspects of sustainable development.
A sound assessment of European environmental policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
In its June 2006 conclusions, the European Council called on the Union and its Member States to extend the national accounts to key aspects of sustainable development.
A sound assessment of European environmental policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
Environmental data currently available at European level should be expanded in the medium term by adding information to facilitate policy assessment.
European environmental policy is becoming increasingly important in the light of the economic crisis and the EU 2020 strategy, and a sound assessment of that policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
Furthermore, the data could be monitored more easily if high quality information were available regarding the interaction between environmental and economic factors: environmental economic accounts could contribute to policy evaluation by making available data concerning the environmental impact of economic activities.
Member States will have to use common methods, classifications and rules laid down in a binding common framework, and in that respect, it is very much to be hoped that these new measures will not involve any additional costs or more red tape.
I therefore support and welcome the proposal for a regulation of Parliament and of the Council on European environmental economic accounts, as I believe that this will contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making data available concerning the environmental impact of economic activities.
In compliance with the Commission's proposal, Member States should therefore be provided with a methodology, common standards, definitions, classifications and accounting rules, which should be put together within a binding framework for each of them.
While I think that priority should be given firstly to data already available (that is, collected at regional, national and European level), I believe that if the need arises for additional modules, which does not entail unnecessary bureaucracy or additional costs, in this case, Eurostat should be allowed to gather data from Member States with a view to setting up environmental economic accounts at European level.
I voted in favour of the report on EU environmental economic accounts as I believe that there need to be indicators for sustainable development and public welfare, beyond gross domestic product (GDP), that enable the evaluation of European environmental policy.
On 28 September 2009, the Commission released a communication entitled 'GDP and beyond: Measuring progress in a changing world', proposing measures for the creation of a database of EU environmental accounts, with a view to better public debate and better-supported decision making.
This proposal for a regulation provides only for the collection and compilation of data regarding air emissions, environmental taxes applicable to economic sectors, and economic material flow accounting.
It should, however, be borne in mind that the national statistical systems and their costs will need to be adapted.
The Commission seems to take this fact into account in its proposal, even if only partially, by providing for derogations to Member States if it is necessary to make major adjustments.
This proposal for a regulation only makes provision for the collection and compilation of data regarding air emissions, environmental taxes applicable to economic sectors, and economic material flow accounting.
The Commission seems to take this fact into account in its proposal, even if only partially, by providing for derogations to Member States if it is necessary to make major adjustments.
Environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making data available on the environmental impact of economic activities.
In my opinion, collection of the relevant data, which has been voluntary so far, should become mandatory.
That is why factors such as sustainable transport and energy resources have become key elements in other sectoral policies, too.
Indeed, back in 2006, the European Council called on the Member States to extend the national accounts to key aspects of sustainable development, in order to provide the most consistent data possible.
Environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making available data concerning the environmental impact of economic activities.
In its June 2006 conclusions, the European Council called on the EU and its Member States to extend the national accounts to key aspects of sustainable development.
A sound assessment of European environmental policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
Environmental data currently available at European level should be expanded in the medium term to facilitate policy assessment.
Environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making data available on the environmental impact of economic activities.
A sound assessment of European environmental policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
We refer, in particular, to the collection of data regarding air emissions, environmental taxes applicable to various economic sectors and macro-economic material flow accounting.
In our view, environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making available data concerning the environmental impact of economic activities.
There needs to be agreement on how to prepare model statistics on the environmental impact of EU and Member State policies as well as on tax accounting which supports certain environmental policies.
It is vital that environmental economic accounts contribute to policy evaluation, making available data concerning the environmental impact of economic activities.
This regulation provides only for the collection and compilation of data regarding air emissions, environmental taxes applicable to economic sectors, and economic material flow accounting.
This is a first step towards developing more comprehensive environmental accounting since, according to the competent European and national statistics offices, it is only in these areas that data for the whole of Europe is currently available.
in writing. - Recycling and prevention of waste, air emissions and climatic change, and sustainable consumption and production, could be monitored much more effectively if high quality data were available regarding the interaction between environmental and economic factors.
Moreover, environmental data currently available should be expanded in the medium term to facilitate the necessary policy assessment of the European environmental policy.
I agree with the rapporteur's position and I voted in favour.
A proper and sound assessment of European environmental policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
However, we must consider whether the European Union budget is sufficient to allocate additional financial resources to increase and maintain the bureaucratic apparatus.
The aim of the proposal for a regulation on European environmental economic accounts is to provide instruments for use in achieving certain important objectives, such as developing a European environmental accounting strategy and extending the work of the statistics offices, which provide accounting data to administrative bodies.
I voted in favour of the text because I believe it is important for sustainable development purposes to incorporate environmental topics in EU policies and to have national accounts and a European programme with integrated economic and environmental accounting in the areas of transport, recycling and prevention of waste, air emissions, climate change, and sustainable production and consumption.
In 2006, the Council invited the EU and the Member States to extend their national accounts to the main aspects of sustainable development, proposing short- and medium-term methods to develop global indicators that could lead to better public debate and contribute to decision making based on the economic impact of the environmental measures to be implemented.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree with this first step towards developing environmental accounting that is more comprehensive, since, according to the relevant European and national statistics offices, it is only in these areas that data for the whole of Europe is currently available.
in writing. - (IT) In 2006, the European Council invited the European Union and its Member States to extend statistical data to sustainable development and to existing national accounting data.
In its 2009 report entitled 'GDP and Beyond: Measuring Progress in a Changing World', the Commission itself proposed various measures to be adopted in the short and medium term concerning the definition of general indicators to create a more reliable knowledge base for better public debate and more appropriate political action.
in writing. - In order to ensure sustainable development and appropriate environmental policies at EU level, it is essential that policy makers are provided with reliable data on the environmental impact of economic activities.
The most effective way to achieve European goals in relation to sustainable development and environmental policies is through full cooperation across all Member States.
For these reasons, I voted for this report.
in writing. - We voted in favour.
Agreement on this requirement for Member States to provide data with harmonised methodology on environmental economy is actually a positive concrete step in the 'beyond GDP' process.
In fact, environmental and sustainability policies have recently taken on a particular relevance, making people pay greater attention to the integration of economic and environmental policies.
Climate change, sustainable transport, nature, biodiversity, the use and exploitation of raw materials and natural resources, as well as waste management, have increased their importance exponentially in the policies of Member States.
