The substance of the Environmental Committee dossier was agreed at the beginning of December, and from the start of this year, we have been dealing with certain aspects relating to how Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union can be implemented with regard to this dossier.
In doing so, we ensured that pet owners could continue to travel across EU borders with their pets, while including a transitional system that allows certain Member States to apply stricter controls, depending on disease, for a period of eighteen months.
It is recommended that the transitional system should also be applied in relation to tapeworms (Echinococcus multilocularis) and ticks until 31 December 2011.
As regards the new procedures which take the place of the committee's procedure, the Commission should be empowered under this regulation to adopt delegated acts under Article 290 of the treaty, through which the European Parliament and the Council delegate to the Commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts which have general application in order to add to or amend non-essential elements.
For example, in order that diseases other than rabies may be contained - diseases that could increase as a result of movements of pet animals - the Commission could adopt preventative health measures through delegated acts.
We succeeded in agreeing the wording for all of this and for arrangements relating to the implementation of Article 290 of the treaty in relation to this dossier, and we kept all of this as consistent as possible with regard to the European Parliament's powers under the Treaty of Lisbon.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for its work on this dossier.
I would especially like to thank the rapporteur, Ms de Brún, for her efforts to reach an agreement on this issue, which is a sensitive one for some Member States.
Before a vote is taken on the compromise text, I am pleased to confirm that the Commission does not intend to propose a further prolongation of the transitional regime, which will come to an end on 31 December 2011.
However, the Commission does intend to propose a revision of the regulation in its entirety before 30 June 2011 and, in particular, the aspects of delegated and implementing acts.
Finally, I can confirm the Commission's commitment, jointly expressed with Parliament and the Council, that the provisions of this regulation shall be without prejudice to any further position of the institutions as regards the implementation of Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or individual legislative acts containing such provisions.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, the Council and the Commissioner.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, can I start by thanking Mrs de Brún, who took on this dossier expecting it to be fairly expeditious.
So, under this argument, Parliament will certainly vote tomorrow to prolong the transitional regime for some Member States until the end of 2011, as these countries allegedly need to take specific health risks into account.
Initially, the transitional period lasted until July 2008.
Thus, while I have some sympathy for the fears of the Member States who consider that their pet population is more prone to certain diseases, and I understand that the proposed prolongation would be simultaneously completed with EU-funded vaccination programmes to eliminate sylvatic rabies in some Member States, I believe that this should be the last extension of the special treatment enjoyed by these countries.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs de Brún for the excellent job she has done on updating this technical regulation on travel with pet animals within the territory of the EU.
Let me just cite the United Kingdom as an example: arriving two days too early in a half-year stay means a EUR 3 000 fine and the animal is quarantined for six weeks.
I know that there are thorny debates at national level, but we are now one legal space and it is time, by 2011 at the latest, to introduce free movement, the single market for pets.
My congratulations to Mrs De Brún for this report and, of course, for this procedure to begin a new era.
Commissioner, you mentioned that you have plans to look at new legislation in this regard.
What we all want in this House is high animal and human health standards, and this new legislation that you promise should ensure that.
The case of a 38-year-old woman who died in the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast last year was a tiny reminder of the ongoing threat posed by rabies to Ireland.
In order to continue this record, it is crucial that the transitional agreement which this proposal would extend until the end of next year is not allowed to lapse in July 2010.
For these reasons, the urgency of this matter must not go unstated. (SK) I agree with the amendment to the regulation on animal health requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pet animals, which de facto facilitates movement across borders within the European Union.
I would also like to acknowledge the work done by the rapporteur, who has produced a top-quality report, including such measures that would lead to vaccination against rabies and other diseases, as well as further preventive actions.
This is a prudent approach which particularly stresses prevention and takes the special characteristics of the respective countries into account. (RO) I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on all her hard work, along with all those who made this compromise possible.
I am pleased that the report allows Member States to continue implementing their protection measures against the spread of rabies, and also that it will result in the free and safe movement of pets throughout Europe after 2011.
The 18-month prolongation of the transitional regime regulating the movement of pets into five Member States will give them the time to adapt to the regime which applies in the rest of the European Union.
I would also like to express my thanks to everyone who spoke in tonight's debate; most of them in favour of the proposed system, with only a few people in opposition.
The transitional system will be extended in five Member States until the end of 2011 and by that time, provisions relating to the non-commercial movement of pets will be the same all over the EU.
In the meantime, people will be able to cross EU borders with their pets, but the transitional system will be in place to allow some Member States to apply stricter controls during that period.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Tuesday, 9 March 2010).
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (CS) The aim of Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 on the animal health requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pet animals, which entered into effect on 3 July 2003, was to make it easier for pet owners to travel with their pets.
In practice, this means that a sizeable number of EU citizens will be discriminated against unnecessarily for a further year and a half when exercising their right to free movement between EU countries.
