Textile names and related labelling of textile products (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by Mr Manders on behalf of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection on the Council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of fibre composition of textile products and repealing Council Directive 73/44/EEC, Directive 96/73/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2008/121/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (13807/4/2010 - C7-0017/2011 -.
It will present the study by 30 September 2013 at the latest and incorporate the positive results from the study into additional legislation.
In fact, they have been prohibited in the European Union since 2005, but we can see that there is too little clarity about the country of manufacture when it comes to made-in labels.
We have also asked the Commission to examine the possibility of laying down clear laws and conditions, in order to ensure that manufacturers who claim a particular product was manufactured in, say, the Netherlands, Italy or Germany can guarantee that that really is the case.
It also seems to me that, in the modern world, we no longer need to put 23 languages on a label, because modern technologies can provide improved solutions to this problem.
I hope that the Council's statement tomorrow will be a positive one and that it will assure us of a positive result, and I wish to thank everyone who has contributed to that positive result.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Manders, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great achievement that a second-reading agreement has been reached on the proposal concerning a regulation on the naming of textile fibres and the related labelling of textile products.
In their draft joint declaration, the European Parliament and the Council emphasise that they attribute particular importance to the traceability of textile products and the use of new technologies.
The regulation states that the label must include the accurate fibre make-up, but it also introduces a new labelling requirement concerning non-textile parts of animal origin.
Congratulations, once again, and thank you for your attention.
Another immediate result of the new regulation is simplification, since the Commission will turn a detailed technical attachment of more than 50 pages into harmonised European standards.
Mr President, these are just a few of the topics on which work has already started.
The review clause - and again I thank the Council for having stressed its importance and declared their willingness to work with the Commission immediately to transpose the regulation - requires the Commission to submit a report, possibly followed by a legislative proposal, by 30 September 2013.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached an agreement on this important dossier, thanks to a great effort from everyone to find common ground between the divergent positions of Parliament and the Council.
We also ask for new labelling technologies, such as microchips and Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID), to be used in order to combat product counterfeiting.
The most important aspect for me and for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament was to ensure that the textiles that are sold on the Internal Market do not cause health problems.
Despite the fact that work on the simplification of procedures has slowed down during the more than two years spent on this dossier, I would note that Parliament proposed extending the original scope of the regulation, in particular to include provisions concerning the country of origin of textile products, so I am glad that a balanced compromise has been reached.
The Commission will therefore be asked to carry out a more in-depth analysis of the issue of mandatory 'made in' labels for textile products manufactured outside the EU, and by 2013 it will produce a report on the possible launch of a system for country-of-origin labelling for products.
The compromise between Parliament and the Council also guarantees that labels on clothing products will provide information regarding the use of materials of animal origin.
I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, who have shown a great deal of commitment to increasing consumer power.
It has not all been included, but I am very pleased with the compromise that we now have and I would like to express my support for it.
The Commission has promised to carry out a study of this, and I would simply like to emphasise how very important it is that we have such a study done in order to be able to protect public health and combat allergies, among other things, in which we have seen a significant increase.
I am also pleased that parts of textile products of animal origin are also to be labelled, and I wanted to use my speaking time to say thank you to everyone for their excellent work to increase consumer power.
However, it can only be considered a first step towards comprehensive legislation to protect all European consumers by indicating the country of origin and adopting a new and accurate traceability mechanism.
It is a report that we should all welcome because it affects the day-to-day lives of all members of the public, but, in the constructive spirit characteristic of me, I should like to point out a few things.
We must therefore be much more ambitious and seek the harmonisation of sizes. (SV) Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Manders and offer particular praise for the fact that the request that parts made of animal fur be identified has now been included.
This report is comprehensive, thorough and very technical.
We must still make sure that we have the resources to implement this protection and information in all the Member States and to take action against offenders.
If we take a look at the first issue, namely, the origin of products, it makes sense to begin with the cliché that there is an ongoing crisis in the European Union that is due mainly to the fact that production industries, for example the textile industry, were outsourced to different countries in the Far East for easy and quick profits, and therefore production in the European Union has declined.
However, I would point out that the compromise reached with the insertion of the review clause and the joint statement by Parliament and the Council on origin marking - the political significance of which is not lost on me - could set a precedent and compromise the outcome of the difficult negotiations between the Commission, Parliament and the Council on the complex issue of origin marking for non-EU products, which Parliament approved at first reading last October and which concerns non-textile products also.
This measure would have been of fundamental importance for the textile sector, and would have provided a guarantee for European citizens and consumers.
Just last week in Prato, my hometown, more than 73 000 counterfeit items were seized and the majority of them were textile products.
It is not clear why the Council and the Commission gave up on this point: we do not intend to give up, and so we are voting against the report precisely because the origin certificate has been omitted. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all here to assess a text that certainly contains a few gaps, since I think that - as is often said in this House - we all wanted something more ambitious.
This evening's debate has certainly not been fruitless, because Mrs Győri clearly stated that the Council sets great store by the clause we are discussing - which is the key to today's policy debate - and that it is ready to reach a forward-looking rather than a backward-looking agreement with the Commission and Parliament in order to provide our citizens with real answers.
All of this goes towards underlining the need to protect European businesses and the fact that there can be no growth and development, and above all no jobs, in a social and market economy situation in which the market - which is also a fundamental instrument of our European Union - does not pursue a higher and more important goal, namely social policy.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Let me respond in a few words to the questions concerning the indication of the country of origin, because this was the most exciting part of the debate, and I must say that this issue generated a lively debate not only during the consultation with Parliament but also in the Council, and we discussed this issue at great length.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection stands for free trade and against protectionism.
I also find it nonsensical that some members should say, after the first reading, 'Well, that is over, so now we can carry on regardless', because we in this House know that if we want to carry on as we were and if we want something other than what the Council or the Commission wants, then we will be thwarted in that aim.
If that happens, I think that we will be able to show that we are making laws which are beneficial for our industry, for our consumers and also for us, because we do need to retain public support in Europe.
Written statements (Rule 149) We know that on 30 January 2009, the Commission adopted the current proposal on a regulation on textile fibre names and related labelling of textile products.
In its position at first reading, adopted on 18 May 2010, Parliament approved 63 amendments with a very large majority, including rules on origin marking, indication of animal-derived materials, use of language-independent symbols and a review clause, but the Council did not accept everything.
