Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Schaldemose for her report which, above all, must be praised for proposing concrete measures to strengthen the surveillance systems for movement within the common European market of products that are safe for European consumers.
It is an own-initiative report but it has the merit of going in the right direction to complete the single market and the protection of European consumers.
Ensuring safety means providing traceability systems that are reliable throughout the products' life cycle.
In this respect, the report puts forward effective proposals: the creation of an information database on product safety; the strengthening of the Community Rapid Information System (RAPEX) regarding unsafe products from third countries; and greater resources to allow the surveillance authorities to withdraw products with serious risks from the market.
I will conclude by emphasising that it is our job to ensure that the products circulating on the European market are safe for the most vulnerable consumers, especially children, the elderly and the disabled. (PL) Madam President, there has been much discussion of the safety of consumers in relation to food products, yet we sometimes forget that normal items of everyday use can pose an equally serious threat to health, and sometimes even to life, particularly in the case of small children.
Thank you very much. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today, Parliament has adopted a report on the subject of general product safety, which is another important step towards strengthening the protection of European consumers.
I believe that new technologies can help combat counterfeiting, especially in the textile sector.
The objective of this report is to protect consumers but also to protect all companies operating in Europe that have not decided to outsource their business.
It calls for greater and improved cooperation between the health authorities of the Member States and European institutions, in order to address harmonised and commensurate risk management.
That is why we voted in favour of it. (PT) Madam President, we know very well what happened with influenza A and it should serve as a lesson for us all.
That is why the report voted on here today is so important: because we must learn from what was done so that it is not repeated.
That is why I believe, Madam President, that all public health risks must be tackled, but not irrespective of how this is done or who pays for them. (PL) Madam President, one of the key conclusions drawn in the report we have voted through on evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza is the lack of an independent evaluation carried out by national and European healthcare bodies.
This results in ill-advised public health decisions.
She said this in response to a question on the safety of adjuvants in the vaccine against the H1N1 pandemic.
In Poland, the health minister decided not to purchase vaccines or implement a vaccination programme, in spite of pressure from the media and many other groups.
Thank you very much. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to date, the recommendations adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) have been transposed into European Union legislation on a provisional basis, by means of annual regulations on fishing opportunities.
The permanent character of these recommendations, however, requires a more stable legal instrument for their transposition into EU law.
Timely transposition was therefore necessary in order to make these international measures directly applicable to natural or legal persons across the EU and to ensure legal certainty in this regard. (PL) Madam President, our group endorsed this report, since it is an absolutely essential component of plans for a future common fisheries policy.
Given the changes that await us, regionalisation is extremely important, as is ensuring that this policy is built on the basis of this very regionalisation.
It is time for us to recognise that the best way forward is a system based on property rights and transferable property rights for future generations who have an interest in securing the resources for their generation and for future generations.
The only way to do this is by re-establishing national control over territorial waters. (DA) Mr President, a large majority in Parliament has once again decided that we here in this House are to support a financial transaction tax.
In order to provide comprehensive and integrated responses to the crisis, we need new and innovative financing mechanisms which are capable of curbing speculation and re-establishing the primary role of the financial sector.
It is therefore necessary to change, and in an extremely positive way. (FI) Mr President, I am in favour of the introduction of a global transaction charge.
The Commission should not delay in carrying out an impact assessment as to whether such a charge could be initiated at European level in the first phase, and, following this study, the decisions should be taken by the EU.
I hope, however, that more attention will be paid to the measures for public supervision and transparency of innovative financing systems, since these are a sine qua non for their introduction. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the adoption of the report by Mrs Podimata represents a significant step forward for a more balanced, more progressive and stronger economic and fiscal policy in Europe.
It is now clear to everyone that Europe, as the coordinating authority of the 27 countries, urgently needs to equip itself with economic and financial instruments that are capable of controlling the economy and not just submitting to it.
I do hope that the Commission and the Council will continue on this path. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic crisis has revealed serious shortcomings in the framework for monitoring the financial sector and the need to respond with new instruments and new fiscal policies.
However, I must point out that, logically, if the Union was to act in isolation, it might lose competitiveness and would not have any practical means of inducing other global economic players to follow suit.
This is precisely why I favour taxation, provided it is introduced globally and after discussion amongst the G20. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, we were delighted to adopt the measures proposed by Mrs Podimata.
This was done today, so we are delighted to declare that we voted in favour because this tax will shift financial resources from the financial economy - and therefore away from financial speculation - to the real economy.
As the Austrian economist, Ludwig von Mises said, if you make those bad decisions and create malinvestment, when the market corrects itself, everyone loses out and the credit cycle bursts.
It is time we learned the lessons of the financial crisis. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the clear proof that the right to European citizenship is still not guaranteed lies in the serious inequalities that still exist between Member States.
I am completely opposed to paragraphs 25, 26 and 29.
To mention abortion in the same sentence as contraception without even considering the right to life does not reflect the will of Christian Europe. (FI) Mr President, it is quite true that health inequalities vary quite a lot within the European Union.
The Member States are very different, as are their practices and traditions.
It is obvious that if we look ahead and want to narrow this difference between health services at European Union level, we will need more training, education and awareness of what things affect health.
Obviously, socio-economic status has received a good deal of attention in this report, but I myself believe that a focus on the very basic issues, including access to health services, exercise, diet, and these sorts of things are important.
The Cayman Islands have done that, and now about 40 to 50% of their economy is in financial services, thanks to their system of tax neutrality.
Had that money - that USD 880 billion that escapes out of developing countries and is deposited in our banks - been left in those developing countries to develop those countries, how much better would it be that they would grow faster, have capital formation abilities, have property rights and commercial practices? (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the European Union is called on to reform its common agricultural policy, ensuring consistency between agricultural and external trade policy becomes all the more crucial.
Regulative diversity, divergent commercial interests, trade tensions and disputes reflect the complexity of domestic agricultural policies and international trade.
Fair competition should be recognised as playing a key role in this respect.
European farmers and food producers have to meet exorbitant EU standards and spend a great deal of money adapting their products to meet restrictive standards and rules.
Firstly, such agreements are unfair to our native producers, and secondly, such a policy is also hazardous as far as the health of European consumers is concerned, since the EU has no real control over the quality of these products, and this must be changed immediately.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I voted in favour of this report because I believe that it outlines very clearly the problems faced by the European Union's agricultural sector and farmers, especially in terms of trade policy.
If this is indeed the case, I foresee major problems in many sectors of agriculture, and especially in the livestock sector.
The EU is engaged in numerous multilateral and bilateral trade negotiations with various groups such as the World Trade Organisation.
Trade in agricultural products plays a key role in this area, particularly with regard to access to the European Union's markets.
The EU is a net importer of agricultural products.
We must be sure that the necessary synergy exists between the common agricultural policy and the trade policy conducted by the EU. (FI) Mr President, I also wish to say a few words about this report by Mr Papastamkos, which is very thorough.
When we speak of agricultural policy, and if, in the future, we continue to invest in it, we have to maintain these high ethical standards. (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Papastamkos report.
A policy of giving in to this lobby group at a time of increased food demand is a suicidal policy in the long term. (LV) Mr President, fair trade in agricultural products is one of the most important driving forces in the economic development of developing countries.
Many regions and countries in Europe are dependent on agriculture, especially the newest Member States, in which agriculture receives significantly smaller direct payments than representatives of the older Member States.
This type of situation markedly reduces our farmers' competitiveness and profits.
That is why I supported this report, because it calls for a review of European Union trade policy, a regular evaluation, the application of uniform standards to agricultural products from third countries, and the opening of the market to third-country agricultural produce only if our farmers receive compensation for the losses that they would suffer from the increased volume of imports of third-country agricultural products.
What would help them would be for us to help the entrepreneurs in their country to create wealth locally, and for them to be able to trade with us in the European Union.
Of course we all want safer food, but quite often, these standards are used as a non-tariff barrier against imports from developing countries.
Mr President, normally I agree one hundred percent with what my friend, Mr Kamall, says, but today I beg to differ.
Food is something that we cannot play with. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Häusling report.
We must pursue all avenues here, from support for research and cultivation to information and training for farmers in relation to the advantages of established practices and crop rotation.
The Commission must review the ban on the feeding of animal protein to non-ruminants, while still respecting the ban on cannibalism.
Europe should defend traditional and natural agriculture.
Genetically modified crops pose a threat to agriculture in Europe and to food security, and for these reasons, I agree with the rapporteur.
Thank you very much. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Nedelcheva, for her contribution.
Talking about equality between men and women in the world of work today is not, and must not be, merely an exercise in rhetoric.
On the contrary, female employment is a strategic issue for Europe, in both cultural and economic terms.
We therefore need targeted employment policies that allow the impact of the crisis on women to be assessed and counter-cyclical solutions to be considered.
The report has the merit, moreover, of focusing on positive policies to promote the employment of women, the issue of vocational training and female entrepreneurship.
I will conclude by saying that there is another phenomenon to face: the serious problem of violence against women.
I believe that we should try a little pragmatism for the sake of the companies and the women concerned. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the reports on equality between women and men and female poverty in Europe and I am delighted that this has been debated on the very day that we celebrate the hundredth anniversary of International Women's Day.
Notwithstanding Directive 2002/73/EC on equal treatment between men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training, promotion and working conditions, further efforts still need to be made to achieve proper transposition.
The text of the resolution supports equality between women and men in many areas, while, at the same time, supporting abortion - the termination of a new life.
The text is in conflict with United Nations resolutions stating that abortion should never be used as a form of birth control.
In adopting this resolution, the European Parliament is not only meddling in the affairs of nation states, but more than anything ignoring the right to life enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights.
I am sorry that a majority of Parliament has supported this text.
It is truly important to remember that we were created as men and women.
I believe in quotas as the way to make progress along this difficult path and, above all, in the motto I started with: from words to deeds. (LV) Mr President, although the situation with women's rights has improved, I should nevertheless like to draw attention to at least three aspects.
First, differences in rates of pay are still significant, and during the crisis, these differences have increased, because we have opted to support the banks, and not schools and nurseries, which predominantly employ women.
Third, in politics, where the ideal male-female ratio would be 50:50, women's participation is still considerably smaller.
In Finland, quotas were introduced at local government level 10 to 15 years ago.
A supreme court with a mission is a tyranny. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, female poverty is a long-standing issue that has historic causes and is certainly not the product of an economic crisis.
However, it is essential that these programmes are not only coordinated at local, national and European level, but also find ways of coordinating with partners outside the European Union. (ES) Mr President, women have always done the unseen work: doing the housework and providing emotional support; things that you cannot buy and for which you cannot hire somebody in.
We must implement active employment policies in women's favour and revise social protection systems, with special consideration for older women and those with disabilities.
In truth, criminal charges have been brought against a well-known political figure in respect of a sum and in circumstances which would, in the case of an ordinary citizen, have attracted merely administrative proceedings.
The case is one of fumus persecutionis in that it appears that the proceedings were brought with the sole aim of damaging the reputation of the Member concerned.
in writing. - I abstained on this report.
Paying tax is a duty that no citizen should be able to shirk.
I am therefore pleased that he has rectified his mistake.
Defending the independence of the mandate of Members of this House is the responsibility of Parliament, and that independence cannot be jeopardised.
The German Public Prosecutor has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a Member, Mr Brok.
These proceedings relate to a failure to disclose on his income tax return fees relating to a talk given in Munich, for receipt of which he owed EUR 2 900 in tax, but which has now been paid.
However, it refers to the legal opinion that the proceedings in question would not have been handled in the same way if he had been a normal citizen and that there are strong indications of political persecution.
I am voting in favour of this report.
The proper functioning of the internal market requires safe products and confident consumers.
Following the adoption of a common approach for defining product specifications, with progress reflected in the strengthening of the general safety of products within the internal market, improvements can still be made, as too many accidents with tragic consequences still occur in this area, particularly involving children.
Directive 2001/95/EC on general product safety (GPSD), which regulates general requirements relating to product safety, was adopted around ten years ago, and so revision of it is a priority, in order to bring to an end the existence of two levels of divergent rules relating to the market oversight that is imposed on and applied to harmonised goods, depending on whether consumer goods are involved or not.
The relevant legislative framework consists of three elements: a new legislative framework, the GPSD and harmonisation directives by sector.
The inhabitants of the EU must be able to have confidence in the safety of all goods being sold on the EU market, and high standards of health and safety must always apply.
This is a timely and important report and I welcome its contents, especially as regards sharing information on studies relating to the safety of products, in order to cut down on duplication of services to save time and resources.
European consumers must be certain that the products being imported into the EU are of the same standard as those made there and that the expansion of trade would not affect product safety.
It is vital that the single market is able to deal with the online market and the impact which that has on product safety and market surveillance.
I voted in favour of this important document.
The General Product Safety Directive 2001/95/EC (GPSD), which regulates the general safety requirements for products, was adopted almost 10 years ago and has yet to be revised, although there have been many changes globally and within the EU over the last decade.
Products for children demand particularly careful regulation.
The revision of Directive 2001/95/EC aims to ensure a high level of health and safety protection for consumers, paying special attention to the most vulnerable consumers, namely, children and the elderly.
It seeks to institute transparency and more active oversight of the markets, as well as more rapid means of intervention enabling products considered dangerous to be withdrawn from the market.
The proper functioning of the internal market requires safe products and informed consumers with the ability to choose.
However, the transposition of this directive by Member States has not happened in a uniform manner and has raised a number of issues concerning both its scope of application and the actual dangers associated with the products.
I therefore believe that it is crucial to review it so that we can detect and block products that are unsafe, thus ensuring complete protection of the interests of European citizens.
Finally, I fully support Mrs Schaldemose's proposal to adopt concrete measures in the field of product traceability.
Today, more than ever, the European single market needs regulatory instruments that will establish uniform controls on the safety of goods sold in our countries.
We urgently need this because we have to protect our consumers from the wave of products, especially those from countries such as China, that very often are designed and packaged without taking the least account of end-user safety.
We must monitor the goods that enter our markets for their quality and for their compatibility with our consumer safety standards and we must, above all, combine national practices in the area of market surveillance - which are sometimes very different from each other - into one instrument.
Putting the proposals of this report into practice will therefore mean obtaining a text as soon as possible to resolve the current problems of European legislation, where several directives overlap, sometimes without covering all fields of application and all possible case studies on the safety of the marketed goods.
Good results can also be expected from the exchange of best practices among Member States, as strongly recommended by the report, in the final overview of the proposals of Mrs Schaldemose's text.
The products available on the internal market have steadily expanded and multiplied over the last 10 years.
We currently have a directive which only partially overlaps with the new legislative framework adopted in the middle of 2008.
Correlating the regulations would provide us with more chances of achieving the aim of a coherent internal market for both harmonised and non-harmonised products, as well as offer comprehensive protection for consumer interests.
Consequently, it is important for us to get rid of the two overlapping layers of diverging market surveillance rules applying to harmonised goods, depending on whether they are consumer products or not.
Market surveillance is closely linked to product safety as it is a key element in ensuring that products comply with the requirements stipulated in the relevant EU harmonisation legislation and that they are not dangerous.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of this report, which proposes to review the General Product Safety Directive.
In fact, I am strongly convinced that the single market can only function well if it strengthens consumer confidence and provides them with safe products.
In fact, European Directive 2001/95/EC, which governs general safety standards applicable to goods, was approved 10 years ago: now is the time to update it in light of the arrival of new products on the market.
Consumer safety and protection have always been priorities for our political action and hence it is essential to review this directive by updating the rules on safety requirements for products and aligning the legislation of the new regulatory framework.
I believe the measures proposed at a local level (producers and companies), in particular, those relating to traceability, product safety and the transparency of e-commerce, to be relevant and essential points with regard to the elimination of gaps in the European approach to this matter, and consequently, to the proper functioning of the internal market.
I would also like to point out the importance of cooperation between Member States, which will serve to harmonise safety levels and strengthen market oversight.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe it to be essential for guaranteeing that all products placed on the single market are safe, ensuring a high level of consumer protection.
In order to ensure consumer confidence, it is essential to have strict rules on the quality of products that are placed on the market, and EU rules have been directed towards this objective, with some success.
However, in my opinion, these rules must necessarily be subject to two conditions, which are no more than two sides of the same coin: (i) on the one hand, they cannot be more restrictive for European producers than for their international competitors, which place their products on the same market without complying with the same rules; and (ii) they cannot be so exacting that they jeopardise economic competitiveness.
While bearing these two constraints in mind, the Commission therefore needs to revise the directive on general product safety and market surveillance, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable consumers, and most especially to children.
We know that, of the many accidents that occur because products placed on the market are unsafe, the majority involve children, which requires concrete measures relating not only to the safety of the end product, but also to its suitability for the public for which it is intended.
This report deals with the need to review the directive on general product safety and market surveillance adopted nearly 10 years ago.
Throughout the last decade, significant progress has been made on this issue within the European Union, and so it is universally recognised that it is both possible and desirable to make improvements within a legislative framework that guarantees product safety, while benefiting consumers and companies at the same time.
I agree with the rapporteur's position that product safety rules should be updated and harmonised with the NLF in order to optimise consumer protection - through the provision of a quality product - and to ensure full transparency for producers.
This report contains a set of guidelines for the future review of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance.
The important question of the country of origin of a product and of the manufacturer responsible is also tackled.
We have criticised the consequences of the development and deepening of the single market for economic and social divergence within the EU.
Its concrete objective is to set out guidelines for the future review of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance.
The rapporteur has placed great emphasis on the need for increased supervision, with the aim of achieving a higher level of product safety.
This report has my support because it includes measures on traceability that are useful for halting the movement of products that might be harmful to consumers, and also because it emphasises strict control of products from third countries, and China in particular.
All commodities and products sold on the EU market must be of a high standard of safety to protect European Union consumers.
Market surveillance also plays a huge role in ensuring that only products which meet the required standards reach the market.
The European Parliament is sending out a strong message with the report that has been voted through, calling for directives on product safety to be consistent with other legislative acts, which will guarantee a better-functioning market surveillance system and clear and transparent regulations for entrepreneurs, and will provide consumers with a guarantee that the product they have in their hands meets legal requirements.
I hope that stepping up cooperation with China will result in an improvement in the quality of products imported to EU markets from China.
The level of market surveillance differs considerably among Member States and a number of them fail to designate necessary resources for efficient market surveillance and interpret products posing serious risk differently, which can create barriers to the free movement of goods, disturb competition and jeopardise consumers' safety within the internal market.
The current legislative framework for market surveillance does not provide enough coherence and should therefore be reviewed and further coordinated.
I resisted voting in favour of this document because I believe that by only considering consumer safety, we would reduce the free circulation and broad variety of products.
The measures adopted must be adequate but, at the same time, we must also consider consumer safety, as well as the free circulation and variety of products.
It is also clear that market surveillance is a challenging activity for a number of Members States, as they are unable to designate necessary resources for efficient market surveillance.
I support the final form of the report on a revision of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance.
I applaud the fact that the final version does not include proposals to set up further agencies, and that it will therefore not lead to further demands on the budget.
I would like to highlight how the report emphasises the issue of standardisation as a regulatory instrument which, in its essence, comprises an example of 'smart regulation', and therefore regulation which is not top down, but which comes from below, from the interested parties.
In connection with the greater scope for action in the area of creating product safety standards, I consider it essential to focus on the stability of the European standardisation system, simplifying European standards and reducing the time it takes to create standards.
Firstly, I should like to congratulate Mrs Schaldemose on the work she has done.
The report adopted today by Parliament concerns the important issue of product safety and, consequently, of the protection of citizens.
The substantial European commitment to protecting consumers from defective and dangerous products has already meant that good standards have been reached, but I think there is still room for improvement, especially in relation to so-called vulnerable consumers, such as children, the elderly and the disabled.
In this area, I believe the strengthening of the market surveillance system through a measure to improve the effectiveness of border controls is crucial, together with the complete traceability of products through the entire supply chain.
I will conclude by reiterating the need to review the regulatory framework currently in force, represented by the General Product Safety Directive, according to the guidelines set out today by the vote of Parliament.
I welcome this report, which says that RAPEX (EU rapid alert system for dangerous consumer products) needs further improvements.
Specifically, Member States need to improve the effectiveness and visibility of custom rules and authorities in tackling poor product safety.
Although unquestionable progress has been made in the last 10 years in terms of product requirements in the internal market of the European Union - partly thanks to a common approach - much still remains to be done.
Indeed, it would be important to review the current European legislation on this subject.
This would also allow the prerogatives of the new legislative framework (NLF) on products, which was approved in 2008, to be respected.
However, the real problem to solve - and the true priority of the report - is to pay attention to products intended for children and to products that appeal to them.
It would also be advisable for the Commission to propose a proper regulation on general product safety and market surveillance.
This should include essential elements such as the adoption of concrete measures in the field of traceability, the obligation for manufacturers to provide a detailed risk analysis during the design phase or, again, strict regulations for the sale of products online.
Consolidation of the internal market is essential for the satisfactory economic development of the EU.
However, this aspiration is only possible if the products on the market are safe and if there is consumer confidence.
in writing. - This report, adopted unanimously in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, is some kind of contribution by Parliament to the revision of Directive 2001/95/EC on general product safety.
This and other measures are intended to provide the EU population with protection from the appearance of dangerous products on the market, and that is why I voted 'for'.
Around 60% of the products reported in the RAPEX system come from China.
The majority of dangerous products thus come from a market that is almost impossible for the EU to control.
I hope that the new RAPEX China system will help remedy this.
This report is moving in this direction, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
The huge size of the European market requires effective and specific regulations to ensure consumer product safety and therefore, I think the EU needs to update its own regulations in order to ensure market surveillance.
The report by Mrs Schaldemose - which I voted in favour of - confirms the need to review the directive of 2001, given the difficulties Member States faced in transposing it.
I agree with the emphasis that the report places on combating counterfeiting through better identification of products in respect of consumer safety through the use of new technologies.
This report relates to the review of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance.
In a context of free movement and a constant increase in the variety of products available on the market, it is essential that we do not lose sight of consumer safety.
It is a duty of both governments and companies to ensure greater product safety.
However, improvements can still be made, as there are gaps in this area that compromise consumer safety and which could have harmful consequences.
I voted in favour of this report as I had to agree with the rapporteur's proposals, which consisted of emphasising the importance of reviewing current European legislation on product safety so that dangerous products can be identified and withdrawn from the market, for the benefit of the end consumer.
I would point, in particular, to amendments to safety rules for products aimed at the most vulnerable consumers within the single market, namely children, the elderly and people with disabilities.
I should like to offer my congratulations on the excellent work carried out by Mrs Schaldemose.
Consumers must be guaranteed greater protection from defective and potentially dangerous products.
Through this report, we are telling the Commission that we need to review the directive and that we need to strengthen the market surveillance system and have market surveillance which is consistent across the single market.
In order to effectively combat the presence of defective products in the common market, I believe it is vital to improve border controls, especially in ports.
I ask the Commission and our national governments to introduce tougher sanctions on imports from third countries that violate safety standards.
I voted in favour of the report on the revision of the General Product Safety Directive.
In order to ensure that market surveillance authorities do not face any uncertainty, we should establish a common European framework applicable to all products present in the internal market or entering it.
Moreover, let us not forget that, in order to dissuade economic operators from acting illegally, it is important to take action both in terms of penalties against those who deliberately put dangerous or non-compliant products on the market, and in terms of transparency: any ban on products should be published.
Another crucial element is dealt with in this report: that of product safety from a global perspective.
In this context, the European Union must set itself the goal of improving exchanges of information on dangerous products originating from third countries, such as China and India, in order to tackle the issue of product safety and traceability before products enter the European market.
in writing. - A well-functioning single market would also mean safe products and consumer confidence.
A general look at the area of product safety shows that, during the last decade, we have seen progress when it comes to product safety in the EU.
Governments as well as enterprises take responsibility to ensure safer products and, due to legislation at EU level, there has been a common approach to product requirements, which has improved the general safety of products within the internal market.
With the adoption of this resolution, the European Parliament stresses how vital it is to improve border controls, especially in ports, in order to effectively combat the presence of defective products in the common market.
The text adopted asks the Commission and our national governments to introduce tougher sanctions on imports from third countries that violate safety standards.
Also, greater attention should be paid to online sales, a phenomenon which is constantly on the increase and, in particular, sales of those products that can cause direct harm to the consumer, such as pharmaceutical products and food.
It is important to stress the requirement that manufacturing companies verify the possibility of risks to safety and health even at the product design stage and for the creation of a public database about product safety.
In a globalised world where we are witnessing the movement of goods and people, there is a growing need to implement systematic checks on saleable products.
Particular attention should be paid to products arriving from third countries, where hygiene and health standards, production processes, and the use of materials not permitted in Europe, carry the risk of contaminating items that end up on our tables or in our hands.
In particular, we need to test children's toys for toxic substances as they often put them in their mouths; all the more now because in virtually all cases, the toys are made in China, a country unfortunately renowned for its low production costs and poor quality control.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which suggests further improvements to the rapid alert system for dangerous consumer products in the EU.
in writing. - A safe internal market is a priority for our citizens and this report highlights inadequacies in the legislation on product safety and market surveillance and in the way these are implemented at both EU and national levels.
The current lack of legal certainty, whereby various legal instruments apply to different categories of products, while loopholes exist in other areas, is an obstacle to market safety and to the proper functioning of the single market.
The General Product Safety Directive and rules governing market surveillance should be replaced by a single regulation, as the legal instrument guaranteeing the greatest level of clarity and uniformity.
Furthermore, in light of the fact that more and more people shop online, legislation on product safety and market surveillance must now be brought up-to-date to include measures covering online selling so as to strengthen consumer confidence in this area.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by Mrs Schaldemose, because this is a serious and topical issue.
I voted in favour of the report on the revision of the General Product Safety Directive and market surveillance because I generally support the strengthening of market surveillance in the interests of efficient consumer protection.
I believe it is important to protect children, older people and people with disabilities because the Community has a special responsibility to these groups.
I am voting in favour of this report as I agree that better cooperation in response to pandemics is needed, and I agree that a review of the prevention plans drawn up by the EU and its Member States is necessary.
I believe that this issue should be better managed by assessing recommended vaccination strategies, and that this can only be achieved if the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control exercises its powers more effectively as an independent agency, with adequate resources for this purpose.
I welcome this initiative which wants to ensure better vigilance and complete transparency with regard to the evaluation of medicinal products recommended in the event of health emergencies, and to improve vaccination and communication strategies to prepare for and prevent pandemics.
I think that the European Union must allocate more resources to research and development regarding public health prevention measures in order to achieve an increase in the investments dedicated to a better evaluation and anticipation of the impact of an influenza virus, both between pandemics and at the beginning of a pandemic.
The European Union was obliged to learn from the controversial management, in 2009-2010, of H1N1 influenza in Europe, and to adopt the measures necessary to prevent further disproportionate reactions.
That is why I voted in favour of this text, which makes provision for more cooperation, more independence and more transparency in order to deal effectively with any future pandemics.
More cooperation, in the sense that this text envisages a review of the prevention plans put in place by the European Union, a review of the roles and responsibilities of key actors, and the introduction of a procedure enabling Member States to make group purchases of vaccines and medicinal products.
This text also calls on the WHO to include the criterion of severity in its definition of a pandemic.
More independence, in the sense that the text stipulates that the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control should exercise its powers as an independent agency so as to have scientific studies that are not influenced by pharmaceutical companies.
More transparency, lastly, in the sense that the text calls for an assessment of the effectiveness of vaccination strategies.
Consequently, this text will allow for more consistent communication between Member States.
I voted in favour of this report.
According to the figures provided by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) at the end of April 2010, influenza A(H1N1) caused 2 900 deaths in Europe in 2009.
I agree that the World Heath Organisation should revise the definition of a pandemic, not basing this solely on the spread of the virus, but also including the possible severity of a disease to allow for more adequate responses and protect EU citizens from real dangers.
I believe that in this area, there is a need for better cooperation between the Member States and the responsible institutions and organisations, as well as a more transparent distribution of responsibility among the key actors.
Influenza A (H1N1), caused by the influenza A H1N1 virus, was initially detected in Mexico at the end of March 2009, and subsequently spread to various countries.
In May 2009, the World Health Organisation (WHO) attributed moderate severity to influenza A (H1N1), and in June of the same year, the WHO declared a level 6 alert, corresponding to a pandemic phase.
This maximum-level alert declared by the WHO set in train a series of measures in Europe.
In some cases, these were very costly measures (for example, the costs were estimated at EUR 1.3 billion in Great Britain and EUR 990 million in France, compared to EUR 87 million against seasonal influenza).
The response was disproportionate.
Each Member State reacted in its own right, without much coherence or solidarity.
This report, which I supported, reaches the correct conclusions in recommending greater coordination between Member States and European health institutions, as well as clarification and a review of the roles and responsibilities of the key players and management structures, and threats to health at a European level.
In the light of the reaction of several European Union countries with regard to combating a possible pandemic of the H1N1 virus, I agree that improvements are needed in the formulation of responses based on the scientific information available in this type of situation.
Any review needs to aim for greater cooperation and coordination between the Member States' health authorities and the European institutions.
The EU was the region of the world that was best prepared and had the best reactive capacity for dealing with this outbreak, although the considerable differences in the Member States' preparedness and the lack of any real cooperation between them weakened this.
The differing recommendations made within the EU and Member States with regard to priority target groups for vaccination indicate the enormous uncertainty and divergent points of view that persist with regard to an appropriate response.
The costs, which were quite significant, could also have been reduced through greater cooperation between the Member States, and between these and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.
We should therefore learn from that crisis so that we can deal with any future pandemic threats more effectively.
Finally, it would seem appropriate to devise a system of joint public procurement of vaccines by Member States.
Last but not least: there needs to be total transparency in relation to the experts who advise European public health authorities, in order to put an end to potential conflicts of interest.
I welcome the vote on this report, for which I was appointed shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
For the sake of the 500 or so million citizens that we represent, we need to learn from this crisis so that we can deal with any new pandemic threats more effectively.
The text adopted yesterday is a very good compromise in terms of health cooperation, independence and transparency.
I voted for this report because I think that better coordination is required at EU level in terms of responding to epidemiological risks.
In this context, I think that the European Union needs to implement an independent system for assessing pandemic risks, as well as better coordination in terms of managing these risks.
In this context, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control must be equipped with the capabilities required to be able to play as active a role as possible in this area.
I voted in favour of the report on the management of H1N1 influenza because it highlights the importance of strengthening cooperation, independence and transparency in the management of future pandemic crises, specifically through improved application of the powers of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control as an independent agency.
In Europe, this virus was responsible for 2 900 deaths, well below the number of deaths caused by seasonal influenza.
Fortunately, according to data provided by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), the H1N1 influenza virus caused fewer deaths than initially predicted, and is currently considered a disease of low severity in the EU.
It created a certain amount of alarm at the beginning of its spread, which led several Member States to make substantial investments in vaccination programmes that turned out to be excessive, because in countries such as Poland, which did not take any exceptional measures, the mortality rate remained at the level of those countries that embarked on national vaccination campaigns, with costs estimated at many millions of euro.
According to this report, 'the policies on the purchasing of vaccines had already been laid down in advance purchase agreements signed back in 2007 with pharmaceutical companies'.
This reveals a lack of transparency in this procedure due to the Member States' unacceptable dependence on pharmaceutical companies.
In the light of the troubled process of managing the declared influenza A (H1N1) pandemic and the acknowledged numbers (2 900 deaths resulting from H1N1 influenza, whereas 40 000 were caused by seasonal influenza during the same year), the report calls for transparency, which seems laudable to us.
It also recommends a strengthening of cooperation between Member States in this area, with regard to both the definition of the severity of viral outbreaks, and decision making.
During this phase of assessing what happened during the management of the H1N1 influenza issue, lessons need to be learned, and it should be recognised that countries need to have public health systems and extension services in the area of public health that are able to operate in different areas, specifically: The drawing up and assessment of scientific studies, independent of the pharmaceutical industry, on the efficacy, safety and risk-benefit ratio of anti-viral vaccines and medicinal products, and on recommended target groups; In the assessment of information on the medication recommended in the event of a health emergency, especially in pandemic situations; In the strengthening of capacity in terms of managing and anticipating risks, and in relation to research and development in these areas, as well as with regard to preventative public health measures.
There is also a need to improve cooperation between the various national services, and between these and the relevant international and regional institutions and organisations.
I endorse the report by Mrs Rivasi on evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza in 2009-2010 in the EU because it highlights the European Union's excessively alarmist attitude when evaluating the problem.
The motion for a resolution that we have adopted has laid the foundations for much-needed reflection on the European Union's response to the spread of swine flu.
That experience should motivate us to improve coordination between the national health authorities and the European institutions, review prevention and vaccination strategies and redefine the criteria for a pandemic alert.
I would like to point out that more effective cooperation can not only lead to cost reductions in the management of such crises, not least through possible group purchasing of vaccines by the Member States, but, above all, it can ensure that people are afforded better protection, since, of course, the virus is not stopped by borders.
Lastly, I hope the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control will be given the support it deserves so that it can continue to do its job of evaluating and controlling health emergencies with complete independence.
I voted for the report on evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza.
The H1N1 influenza was extremely instructive.
There were 10 times fewer H1N1 influenza victims than victims of ordinary seasonal influenza.
Yet it is true that those 2 000 annual victims, most of whom were elderly or already ill, are of no interest to anyone.
Next, it taught us how to completely disguise a lack of judgment with alarmist speeches and arm waving.
There was a lack of transparency in 2009 and 2010 in the way in which we dealt with the H1N1 strain of influenza, designated by the World Health Organisation as a pandemic.
This is dealt with in the 'Report on evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza in 2009-2010 in the EU'.
The important issue in this context is to evaluate the strategy for stockpiling vaccines and to work towards the joint procurement of the vaccines by the Member States in future.
Improved coordination between the responsible authorities in the Member States and the European agencies is also important.
However, the report as adopted today seeks to restore the confidence of our fellow citizens in health crisis management.
It will be essential to improve communication by taking into account how easy it is for rumours with no scientific basis to circulate on new media and the Internet.
Fortunately, the influenza was less serious than anticipated, but it would be dangerous to underestimate the degree of unpredictability and potential severity of future pandemics.
I voted in favour of this report because the World Heath Organisation should urgently revise its definition to include the severity of a disease in its definitions on the stages of a pandemic to allow for more appropriate responses.
There must be a review of prevention plans, a clarification and, if necessary, review of the roles and responsibilities of key actors, and reinforced cooperation between Member States in order to ensure coherent risk management in response to a pandemic in compliance with the International Health Regulation, as well as more serious coordination on the part of Member States with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.
I believe the resolution on evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza in 2009-2010 in the EU clearly reveals the mistakes made and, at the same time, lays the foundations for fresh, effective management of influenza pandemics.
It is well known that the reaction to the spread of H1N1 influenza was exaggerated in comparison to the real scale of the problem.
The moderate severity of this disease was confirmed back in 2009 by the World Health Organisation, and the different approaches adopted by Member States resulted in huge costs, the sale of vaccines produced urgently and a revision of the definition of a pandemic, taking into account as a criterion not only its geographical spread but also its severity.
These factors highlight the fact that a different approach is an absolute must.
The European Union requires more cooperation, transparency and independence with regard to resolving these situations.
The subject of influenza appears every year on the agenda not only of the European Parliament, but also of many national parliaments.
I believe that the Rivasi report takes a very broad approach to the problem of H1N1 influenza, discussing it under several headings such as cooperation, independence and transparency, which will be absolutely vital in the event of a future pandemic.
I believe that the European Union must take active and speedy measures, and so I voted in favour of adopting the report on the management of H1N1 influenza.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very detailed and frank report, which contains many alarming messages.
It is beyond doubt that the joint approach of the EU during the pandemic verified the potential of joint action, while also revealing dramatic weaknesses, particularly in the areas of prevention, objective statistics and the purchasing of safe and effective medicines.
The EU has twice recently faced the problem of a dangerous viral infection.
I welcome the proposals relating to more stringent testing of the effectiveness of medicines and pressing for objective data collection, and also the interest in protecting all EU citizens regardless of healthcare system.
As the Quaestor jointly responsible for protecting the health of MEPs and European Parliament (EP) employees, I would like to say that our measures in the EP have been effective, but not cheap.
On the basis of statistical data presented in this report, the reaction to the spread of H1N1 was actually disproportionate to the actual nature of the phenomenon, generating, in fact, very costly vaccination campaigns in many Member States.
The rapporteur therefore considered it appropriate to raise extremely important issues, first of all, concerning the overwhelming influence of pharmaceutical companies.
Finally, we must avoid any conflicts of interest because they may immediately generate suspicion of undue pressure in public opinion.
This report has the virtue of condemning the lack of transparency of the European Medicines Agency as well as the links between pharmaceutical companies and experts on vaccines and antivirals.
An analysis of the management of H1N1 influenza in Europe highlights a basic problem: an absence of independent assessment by national and/or European health authorities, and the resulting inability to adapt public health measures in the best possible way and in real time to the actual clinical and epidemiological statistics available.
Even though the WHO classified the H1N1 influenza as a minor illness, at the same time, it issued a pandemic warning of level 6, the highest possible level.
Naturally, good cooperation and joint procurement are advantageous in the event of a pandemic, helping to achieve price reductions.
I voted in favour of this resolution, because it is difficult to predict the severity of a pandemic and how it will unfold, and often when a pandemic occurs, many decisions are taken that are disproportionate.
Above all, the prevention plans established both in the EU and its Member States for future influenza pandemics must be revised consistently, so that they are flexible and adapted effectively every time there is a risk of a flu pandemic.
Furthermore, we must encourage cooperation and coordination of action at international and regional levels in order to properly ensure risk management and react promptly to the risk of a pandemic.
It is important to ensure that the prior purchase agreement and delivery process takes place transparently, reducing corruption in this area.
Scientific experts should declare publicly that they have no financial or other interests in the pharmaceutical industry.
I voted in favour of the report on evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza in 2009-2010 in the EU.
In numerous cases, including in Greece, attention on the part of the institutions and the State decreased as publicity in the issue decreased.
The report on the management of H1N1 influenza in the EU during 2009-2010 highlights the low level of severity, in statistical terms, that the illness had within the European area (in human terms, each person who died is an irreplaceable loss).
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control reported 2 900 deaths in Europe resulting from infection with H1N1 during 2009.
The fact that the Member States and the European institutions accepted the maximum-level alert declared by the World Health Organisation (WHO) resulted in a set of costly and disproportionate measures in the light of the severity of H1N1 influenza.
However, this case still needs to be reflected upon, and I agree with the rapporteur's view that the EU requires greater cooperation between its Member States, greater independence and greater transparency, specifically with regard to the cost-benefit assessment of these measures with a major financial impact.
in writing. - The report considers that better cooperation is needed in response to pandemics and calls for a review of the prevention plans established in the EU and its Member States (MSs).
It also calls for reinforced cooperation between MSs and coordination of MSs with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC).
The ECDC is invited to apply its competences as an independent agency to assess and communicate the severity of infection risks within the EU, making recommendations on best practices in areas such as crisis management techniques, vaccination and communication strategies.
The EU needs to improve cooperation, independence and transparency in the management of future pandemic crises.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Rivasi for her excellent work.
This report is an important attempt to highlight the doubts that have been raised over the disproportionate response to swine flu in Europe, as well as the potential influence of pharmaceutical companies on the actions taken.
I also call on the World Health Organisation (WHO) to revise the definition of 'pandemic' and also take into account the virulence of the disease and not only the geographical spread of the virus.
In order to provide the Union with its own capacity to prevent risks of a pandemic, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) must be guaranteed the support it needs to perform this task entirely independently.
in writing. - The EP has today thrown a spotlight on the disproportionate response to the swine flu outbreak in Europe.
Health budgets are notoriously overstretched, and there are far more important health issues to tackle than giving subsidies to big pharmaceutical firms.
MEPs have today called for a revision of the EU's health response mechanisms.
The EU blindly followed the WHO in its response to the swine flu outbreak, and this clearly needs to change.
The EP has called for meaningful EU risk evaluation and for the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control to be given adequate means to carry out all its tasks, not least, to assess the severity of infection risk.
Even through the virulence of H1N1 influenza in Europe has not been particularly aggressive, this virus has so far caused no fewer than 4 700 deaths.
The report published by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) notes that, in the management of the virus, the EU has been unable to adapt quickly to the medical measures necessary to limit infection.
This is largely attributable to prevention strategies adopted in the various Member States, planned in consultation with the World Health Organisation (WHO) years ago without ever having received substantial updates.
To prevent such situations recurring, in view of the harsh criticism received over the manner of distribution of vaccines, we must concentrate our efforts specifically in this direction in the future, optimising authorisation procedures for the marketing of medicinal products used when reacting to health crises.
We support the own-initiative report, as we are all aware that the excessive alarmism linked to the so-called bird flu pandemic cost the EU about 10 times more than the normal flu campaign.
The fact that the World Health Organisation (WHO) accepted the alarm without acting independently through analyses of costs and risks undertaken by the European agencies, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA), led to costly and unnecessary vaccination campaigns and, in particular, encouraged the population to buy disproportionate quantities of sterile disposable material and disinfectants.
The end result in terms of deaths, which is what must be considered by the law maker, was even lower than that of a normal seasonal influenza.
It is therefore essential that the Commission should report to Parliament with a detailed cost-benefit analysis within six months, stating how it intends to react to similar situations in the future.
in writing. - I supported this report which evaluates the management of H1N1 influenza and calls for a joint procurement mechanism for vaccinations.
in writing. - Whilst the ECR Group is in favour of improving lines of communication and cooperation between Member States in relation to health threats like epidemics, the report on H1N1 ill advises Member States on the facts surrounding H1N1 and on the precautions they should take in the event of another epidemic.
The ECR Group has therefore voted against this report.
Therefore, on the Council's initiative, Harald Wögerbauer was put forward for the Court of Auditors.
Harald Wögerbauer, political director of the Austrian People's Party parliamentary club, is to become a new member of the Executive Committee of the European Court of Auditors.
However, because the Austrian People's Party would appear to be taking a kind of autonomous line in relation to pending personnel decisions at EU level and this contravenes democratic principles and the continuous calls for greater transparency in EU appointments, I have abstained on this vote.
I am voting in favour of this report as several recommendations adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM), and which are already in place in the GFCM contracting states, need to be transposed into a single EU legislative instrument.
This simplification is required in order to avoid the drawing-up of annual regulations to update legislation, as has occurred in the past.
I voted in favour of this document.
The objectives of the common fisheries policy (CFP) are to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources and a high level of protection for the ecosystem.
The General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) was set up by an international agreement in 1949, and the European Community is a member of the Commission.
I voted in favour of this document, which aims to merge certain measures adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) into a single piece of EU legislation.
I voted in favour of this report because I think it is a positive step in an economic sector that is crucial for Europe, in other words, fisheries.
Very many areas in the Mediterranean regions have such characteristics, so it is very important that legislative proposals that set out to deal with the fishing in this area are clearly inspired by the principle of subsidiarity, so as not to risk compromising the entire system.
I am also firmly convinced that it is, above all, essential to offer special protection to small and medium-sized enterprises working in the field, involving them in decision making and giving them as much support as possible, because they are actually very difficult to redevelop.
Regulations that take no account of these features may cause irreparable damage to smaller markets, forcing a conversion into another area that would be very complex to achieve.
in writing. - (PT) I agree with the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain provisions for fishing in the GFCM (General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean) Agreement Area.
In order to prevent the powers of Parliament being usurped, Article 28 should be removed from this proposal; this stipulates that the provisions of the regulation should be amended in line with a comitology procedure reducing the role of Parliament to simply receiving information from the Commission relating to management committee procedures.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report on the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) Agreement Area, as it transposes recommendations adopted by the GFCM, and which are already in operation within member countries of the GFCM, into a single EU legislative instrument.
in writing. - (PT) The General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) has been adopting recommendations at its annual sessions.
The content of the recommendations adopted by the GFCM and the obligations pertaining thereto are frequently entirely or partially covered by EU legislation adopted previously, with only the aspects that differ needing to be transposed.
The regulation voted on will apply to all commercial fishing and aquaculture activities carried out by EU fishing boats and by nationals of Member States within the GFCM area.
In this case, just the European Commission and the Member States in whose waters the activity is being carried out need to be informed beforehand.
I believe that the Commission's proposal could run counter to Parliament's powers with regard to the matter in question, in particular, Article 28, which needs to be replaced so that both the effective participation of this Chamber in future amendments to the regulation and respect for its prerogatives are ensured.
The aim of this proposal for a European Parliament and Council Regulation is the transposition of certain recommendations adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM).
The conversion of this agreement into a single EU legislative instrument represents a significant advance, making it possible to improve the control of catches of fish species within the waters covered, as well as cooperation, information and communication between the European Commission, the Member States and the Executive Secretariat of the GFCM.
We recognise and acknowledge the importance of multilateral cooperation for the promotion of the proper conservation and management of marine biological resources - the subject of this agreement.
However, the proposal for a regulation that was approved contains a provision that we consider to be unacceptable and which we sought to amend, proposing the removal of a paragraph from Article 28.
This possibility clashes with the sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus, particularly as this is an area that is highly sensitive from a political point of view, given that the area in question is disputed, illegally, by a third country that is a candidate for EU membership.
The seabed in this area contains natural resources that the Republic of Cyprus has a legitimate right to exploit, in line with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
In this context, the EU's remit should not go beyond questions relating to the common fisheries policy.
However, the proposal for a regulation that was approved contains a provision that we consider to be unacceptable and which we sought to amend, by proposing the removal of a paragraph from Article 28.
The sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus is called into question, even more so as this is an area that is highly sensitive from a political point of view, given that the area in question is disputed, illegally, by a third country that is a candidate for EU membership.
The seabed in this area contains natural resources that the Republic of Cyprus has a legitimate right to exploit, in line with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
In this context, the EU's remit should not go beyond questions relating to the common fisheries policy.
For example, with regard to fishing gear, the proposal for a regulation specifies in detail the minimum mesh size to be used in the Mediterranean Sea (Article 15) and the Black Sea (Article 16) and prohibits the use of towed dredgers and trawl nets at depths below 1 000 metres (Article 17).
It also tackles issues surrounding vessels engaged in illegal, unregulated and unreported (IUU) fishing, etc.
in writing. - I voted for the report on the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) Agreement Area.
The present proposal for a regulation is simply intended to transpose various recommendations adopted by the GFCM, and already in effect in the GFCM's contracting States, into a single Community legislative act into which future recommendations can be incorporated by way of amendments to that act.
Over and above the relevance of provisions in respect of a minimum mesh size for fishing nets, Article 28 of this proposed regulation also questions the powers of Parliament.
In fact, it states that the provisions contained in the regulation can be changed under the 'comitology procedure' whereby the Commission is assisted by management committees, chaired by a representative of the Commission and composed of representatives of Member States.
This would effectively deprive Parliament of its powers, and it therefore appears desirable that the Commission should operate through delegated acts, with the possibility of Parliament or the Council withdrawing the delegated powers.
I agree with the rapporteur over the need to simplify fishing rules by coming up with a regulation that can implement the recommendations adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean in a single piece of legislation.
I also agree with the objectives and principles applied in the common fisheries policy, but I think all coastal Member States must guarantee the right balance between protection and the socio-economic value of ecosystems.
I would therefore like to make all representatives of the 27 Member States and, through them, the Commission aware of the need to consider making these instruments more flexible to give the local fishing industry what it needs to survive.
The General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) was created in 1949 by international agreement.
in writing. - The report is intended to transpose various recommendations adopted by the GFCM.
One of them is a matter of concern for the Committee on Fisheries, which considers Article 28 (procedure for amendment) of the proposal to be a very dubious provision, insofar as it could threaten Parliament's prerogatives and the current institutional balance by inflating the Commission's implementing powers to the point that all future amendments to the regulation would be covered by the Commission's powers.
I voted in favour since I think this impudence on the part of the Commission is simply going too far.
I voted in favour of this resolution, because fishing, particularly in the Mediterranean, is more than simply an economic activity; it is part of the culture and way of life.
I am pleased with the proposals to cooperate actively and exchange information with the GFCM.
The report offers the opportunity to channel all the recommendations of the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean into a single piece of European legislation, making it easier for the public to access documents and helping the relevant agencies to make any future amendments.
I believe that the activity of regulatory simplification for citizens and stakeholders is a duty that we, as legislators, need to carry out quickly and carefully to enable them to understand the opportunities that the EU provides, but, above all, to eliminate the administrative burden that brings so many additional costs.
in writing. - The General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) was set up by an international agreement in 1949.
The present proposal for a regulation is simply intended to transpose various recommendations adopted by the GFCM, and already in effect in the GFCM's contracting States, into a single Community legislative act into which future recommendations can be incorporated by way of amendments to that act.
Title II deals with restrictions on fishing gear and activities ('technical measures').
Title IV deals with cooperation, information and reporting requirements for the Commission and the Member States to cooperate and exchange information with the Executive Secretary of the GFCM.
I voted for this resolution because I believe that the regulatory activity carried out by the General Commission for Fisheries in the Mediterranean has been essential with the aim of achieving a sustainable level of fishing in the Mediterranean.
The latest statistics on fish stocks in the Mediterranean reveal that more than 54 per cent of stocks examined are overfished.
The European Community and Greece are parties to the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean Agreement Area.
The proposal for a regulation relating to certain provisions governing fisheries in the GFCM Agreement Area are designed to translate certain proposals adopted by the GFCM and already being applied by countries party to it into a single Community legislative act.
I voted in favour of this particular motion for a resolution because I consider that the control measures proposed will protect the natural environment and will therefore benefit the parties to the GFCM.
Among other benefits, a financial transaction tax makes the market fairer and more transparent, reduces speculation and levels of fiscal fraud, and distributes the burden of the crisis among the financial operators.
The additional resources resulting from this measure should help with combating poverty, encouraging job creation, funding the welfare state, achieving climate and environmental targets and financing other elements arising from the Europe 2020 strategy.
I support the need, in turn, for the Commission to study a future system of Eurobonds and the projected issuing of common European project bonds as measures for stimulating investment.
I also support the 'polluter pays' principle.
Finally, we cannot overlook support for development, as it is important to maintain the commitment to set aside 0.7% of the gross national income of each Member State for developing countries.
in writing. - I voted against the Podimata report on innovative financing because it wants to introduce a financial transfer tax which, while it is claimed that it is needed to protect the economy from risky trading and to provide a fund to use in the event of another crisis, and will only be placed on wholesale and professional industry, it will inevitably be passed on to the consumer and citizen taxpayer who is already struggling in this crisis.
Personally, I am particularly in favour of the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, ideally at international level, or, failing that, at European level.
I am pleased that this measure was adopted by a majority of my fellow Members.
The global economic and financial crisis has exposed severe weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the global financial system.
Today, it is clear that we need new tools which can curb speculation and restore the financial sector's main role, guaranteeing a fair and proportionate distribution of the burden amongst the key financial players.
There is also a VAT exemption approach for all basic financial activities.
I agree with the introduction of a tax on financial transactions which could help to tackle the highly damaging trading patterns in financial markets, improve the efficiency of the market itself, reduce price volatility and create incentives for the financial sector to make long-term investments with added value for the real economy.
Member States would do well to use these revenues to reduce the public debt, which has increased during the crisis.
Furthermore, the report includes an argument for a solidarity levy on air tickets, so that we can combat public health problems and reduce charges in the transport sector.
More than three years after the crisis, elements for regulating the financial markets are rather thin on the ground.
In this respect, a new tax would allow for new sources of finance to be released and for the most questionable financial practices to be regulated.
The challenge is therefore to know whether Europe has the critical mass to take specific action.
The adoption of this report in plenary indicates a path which the European Union seems to want to go down.
Although the idea of introducing a tax on financial transactions seems to support the general public, even if the G20 leaders failed to agree on setting such a contribution at global level, I feel obliged to mention that this could have an adverse impact in the medium and long term.
The other scenario, at least in an initial phase, will be that this tax will be passed on in the form of costs to the credit consumer or other financial services.
Whatever the situation, the perverse effect of this is that the EU will move even closer to the dangerous situation where it will lose its competitiveness against other states such as the US, Japan or the BRIC countries.
I voted for this report because I agree with the need for the European Union to seek new innovative financing instruments.
It has often been pointed out in this House that the economic crisis has highlighted the lack of regulation and supervision of the global financial system.
We also know that the taxpayers are currently the first to bear the cost of the crisis, not only through direct taxation, but also in terms of rising unemployment, dwindling incomes, reduced access to social services and increasing inequalities.
The rapporteur also proposes other funding instruments designed to curb speculation: for example, coherent and effective taxation of the energy sector and the drawing up of proposals for a tax on development that will lead to increased resources for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
We are constantly confronted in the EU with the consequences of the financial crisis, which, in 2009, overflowed into a budgetary crisis, a significant aspect of which was the excessive issuing of government bonds.
Financial transactions account for a large proportion of the resources in the financial sector, and the various speculative operations on financial markets played a considerable role in the global financial crisis.
It is surely not fair for taxpayers to bear the full burden of the financial crisis, as some of this burden should be transferred to the financial sector as well, so that it can share in the costs.
The report focuses mainly on transactions that are highly risky and speculative, and it will therefore lead to greater responsibility in the financial sector through the future taxation of financial transactions, which will paradoxically lead to greater stability in the global financial sector.
Another reason for introducing a tax on financial transactions is the fact that financial services are not subject to VAT in most Member States.
I voted in favour of this report because I think it is a positive step towards the future innovative financing instruments that will underpin European economic recovery.
I consider it essential for Europe to find resources on the market to finance the key sectors of our economy, in accordance with the objectives of Europe 2020, in particular, the trans-European transport energy and telecommunications infrastructures necessary for ending the crisis.
The EU's responsibility is not to impose and/or increase taxes, but have the courage to face the market.
The solution is to be able to find new forms of financing that can ensure full achievement of projects in the shortest possible time, through the creation of ad hoc funds built upon the issuance of securities directly related to the implementation and economic exploitation of the work, and which are known as project bonds.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution as I agree with the Commission's objective of increasing the size of the EU budget through the use of innovative fiscal instruments, and recognise the potential benefits of increasing private sector financing using public funds.
I welcome the European Parliament's support for the introduction of a tax on financial transactions at European level during the vote in plenary.
A tax on financial transactions at European level will penalise highly speculative and socially useless financial transactions, while providing the European Union with an annual income of EUR 200 billion.
Rather than penalising States and citizens, we need to tax the financial markets.
The Commission and the Council must urgently take note of this.
I support, with some reservations, the Podimata report on innovative financing.
In its final version, the report calls for the introduction of a financial transaction tax (at a global, or at least European, level), while admitting that the consequences of this need to be studied (positing an a posteriori study for this).
in writing. - (FR) Some people do not support a financial transaction tax (FTT) at European level because it would distort competition on the financial markets at Europe's expense.
If we rely on the G20 to take this initiative at global level, we will wait forever.
It would provide an estimated EUR 200 billion of income a year, thus allowing the Union to properly finance its budget, at a time when Council Members are already making known their intention to cut it, despite the added value that results from European expenditure.
The FTT would reintroduce social justice into European decisions by consolidating public finances at the expense of those who weakened them in the first place.
Yet because public government must set general interest as a framework within which to operate, and provide free space for freedom and individual rights within it, it must support this with a fair and progressive tax system.
Consistent with this approach, which must be supported at global level by the EU and all G8 and G20 countries, the revenue from financial transactions must be made comparable to other revenues through a specific tax system that favours greater responsibility by operators together with other rules and new paradigms.
The introduction of Eurobonds designed for the crisis fund and infrastructure projects could strengthen the EU's ability to take action if they were additional to the EU budget.
We therefore need new tools and new fiscal policies.
This tax should, of course, be applied internationally, but if this does not happen, we would ask the EU to shoulder its responsibilities by implementing it in Europe.
It is now up to the European Commission to submit to us a legislative proposal that meets the expectations expressed by a very large majority in this Parliament.
I welcome this vote on the tax on financial transactions because the European Parliament is calling for the Union to implement this tax scheme without waiting for a hypothetical decision on the matter at global level.
According to various studies, the creation of a tax of around 0.05% on transactions would generate some EUR 200 billion of annual revenue to be used to finance the recovery and development cooperation, and to protect the environment, while, at the same time, discouraging financial speculation.
Having said that, I also remain convinced that we need a tax of this kind at international level: the Union must encourage its partners to adopt regulations on financial taxes.
In particular, I hope that a compromise will be reached on this point during the French Presidency of the G20.
For over 10 years, the European socialists have been fighting in the European Parliament for a tax on financial transactions.
This tax would have many benefits: not only would it discourage financial speculation; it would also fund aid to developing countries and their adaptation to climate change, while contributing to the European Union's budget.
The world is now in a different situation: the recession has made the need to stabilise the financial markets yet more acute, and the European Union needs new resources to overcome this recession - it must overcome it by means of a recovery, not by means of austerity.
At the same time, the groundswell in favour of the tax is getting bigger: more and more governments are supporting the idea, and the European Parliament has already voted repeatedly in favour of introducing a tax on financial transactions.
This new vote in favour of the tax is an important step: Parliament is saying that we must act immediately at European level, even if there is no global agreement.
Parliament's request is clear, and the vote was an overwhelming one: we must now turn our words into deeds and implement the tax on financial transactions.
The report on innovative financing addresses a number of important aspects.
Unfortunately, it contains a proposal for Europe to introduce a financial transaction tax on a unilateral basis.
I believe that the Swedish example of the unilateral introduction of a kind of financial transaction tax in the 1980s, which resulted in the majority of trade in shares, bonds and options moving to London, should be taken into consideration so that we do not make the same mistake at European level.
I consider there to be a big risk that the stabilising effects on the financial market will not be realised if the EU introduces such a tax independently.
The risk of trade in shares, bonds and options transferring to less transparent and less open markets outside Europe is great.
I therefore voted against the amendment that proposed a European Tobin tax but, in spite of the fact that this proposal was voted through, I chose to vote in favour of the report in the final vote.
This choice was made on the basis of the fact that, as Europe 2020 negotiator for the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I would otherwise have risked undermining the group's negotiating position on what are, for us, important issues, such as the importance of creating a real internal market, enabling the financing of infrastructure projects by means of European project bonds, and a possible solution with regard to a European carbon tax.
I voted in favour of this report as it defends the creation of specific instruments, such as the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which could contribute to improving the efficiency of the market, increasing transparency, reducing excessive price volatility and creating incentives for the financial sector to make long-term investments, with added value for the real economy.
We Swedish Social Democrats are very much in favour of a transaction tax at global level.
The EU should work very actively to get such a system established.
Therefore, in order to send a clear signal to the Commission that this matter should be taken seriously and that the process must be unbiased, we have chosen to vote in favour of the amendment that talks specifically about the introduction of an EU tax.
It is very important for an objective and thoroughly considered basis for a decision to be established with regard to this matter.
This report deals with the need to find new forms of public sector financing at a world and European level.
In reality, the current economic and financial crisis is requiring Member States to seek revenue to attenuate their budget crises.
New means of financing include taxation of the financial sector and CO2 emissions.
I agree with having a financial transaction tax at a global level.
It also obstinately refuses to introduce a financial transaction tax at EU level and is not pressing for its adoption at a global level.
These would be ways of bringing in revenue to combat poverty and other persistent economic and social problems.
Current estimates of revenue generated from a financial transaction tax, even at a low rate, indicate that around EUR 200 billion per year would be generated at an EU level.
I welcome the resolution on innovative financial instruments which represents Parliament's contribution to the debate on how to generate new revenue, ensure a fair tax policy and maximise income recovery capabilities.
I support the introduction of a financial transaction tax (FTT): the recent crisis - for which we can blame a certain kind of speculative finance - shows how states and citizens end up paying personally for the damage caused by others.
A tax on financial transactions would swell the EU coffers by about EUR 200 billion each year and help curb speculative activities, making them more expensive and therefore less attractive.
Unfortunately, the European Commission has made no progress with these proposals, when it is well known that financial losses caused by tax evasion and fraud in Europe are estimated to be between EUR 200 and 250 billion per year, which alone would be sufficient to reduce public deficits without the need to increase taxes on employment.
However, if we also had financial transaction taxes at a world level and, therefore, also at a European Union level, as well as an end to tax havens and speculative financial products, we would have even greater sums with which to address economic and social problems.
Current estimates of revenue generated from a financial transaction tax, even at a low rate, indicate that around EUR 200 billion per year would be generated at a European Union level.
If the financial system, responsible for reckless trading and speculation, is being held up as one of the major causes of the financial crisis, then it is right that those responsible should have to pay their share by offering the most significant economic contribution.
For this reason, and to avoid creating a dangerous precedent with regard to the European tax system, I do not support Mrs Podimata's report and voted against it.
In fact, I voted for the principle of making financial institutions help to shoulder the cost of the recession, for which they are responsible, and to consolidate our public finances.
However, the problem with this report, which I voted against, is that its main aim, by way of innovation, is to create new taxes, managed, where possible, at European or global level, or at the very least with international bodies deciding who the beneficiaries will be and how the money will be used.
in writing. - The report on 'innovative financing' sends a strong message to the financial institutions and, in particular, to the banking industry, that it is time to further regulate the financial sector, holding banks administratively responsible and legally accountable for their negligent actions and ineffective risk management practices.
It has become evident that the financial services market is often incapable of regulating itself sufficiently and that the quality of consumer protection and safeguards in the financial services sector require tangible and strong improvement, particularly with regard to the monitoring and supervisory aspects.
The current situations might be used as a window of opportunity to strengthen the financial services industry and to restore citizens' and consumers' confidence in the sector, as they are now the ones footing the bill for the big blunders and bailing out the major financial institutions.
Having said that, the Commission should first evaluate the impact which a tax on financial transactions will have on the European economy, because any future proposals should not be based solely on decisions taken on impulse to address the buzzword of the moment, but should consist of a pragmatic approach that will prove to withstand the stresses of time and will restore the trust of the European citizens in the financial markets.
The adoption of the Podimata report was the chance for Parliament to show unequivocal support for the introduction of a tax on financial transactions at European level.
Until now, the European right had always frustrated the proposals by the socialists on this matter, whether in parliamentary committees or in plenary sessions.
This vote marks a new stage in the process of introducing a financial instrument that would serve, in particular, to generate additional own resources for the EU budget, but also to support development initiatives internationally.
By encouraging the taxing of financial transactions internationally and, in any case, by recommending the creation of such a tax within the European Union, Parliament is laying the foundation of a new global financial order.
On top of this, we should mention the new financial prospects that such a tax would offer, since its introduction could generate some EUR 200 billion per year.
This vote is a great victory; it is now up to the international bodies to be as bold as the Members of the European Parliament have been.
The taxing of financial transactions is something that the socialists and the Left in Europe have long been fighting for.
The adoption, by a large majority, of the report by my Greek colleague, Anni Podimata, is testament to the political progress made by the European Parliament.
I agreed with this report, because one of the main advantages of innovative financing tools is that they can bring a double dividend, as they can contribute to the achievement of important policy goals, such as financial market stability and transparency, and offer significant revenue potential, but the effects of these tools on the negative externalities produced by the financial sector should also be taken into account.
This would have the potential to improve market efficiency, increase transparency and reduce speculation, even out excessive price volatility, create incentives for the financial sector to make long-term investments with added value for the real economy, as well as help to finance global public goods and reduce public deficits.
I support the idea of issuing common European project bonds to finance Europe's significant infrastructure needs and structural projects within the framework of the Europe 2020 agenda and anticipated new EU strategies, such as the new strategy on energy infrastructure development, and other large-scale projects.
in writing. - (LV) A new financial transaction tax will not solve European Union Member States' budgetary problems.
The report put to the vote in Parliament today relates to the introduction of innovative financial instruments.
I wanted to support the resolution with my vote because the economic crisis of recent years has highlighted the lack of regulation and the need to create new financial instruments that can resolve major financial speculations.
The introduction of a tax on financial transactions, the issuance of common European bonds and the anticipation of a carbon tax, are some of the proposals geared to the creation of new processes, which are needed for our economy but must not, however, have a negative impact on the most vulnerable consumers.
I very much welcome the result of the vote on the report on innovative financing at a global and European level.
The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament has been calling for a similar solution for some time.
I am pleased that a clear majority has voted in favour of introducing these innovative solutions.
The Left has supported the introduction of a financial transaction tax for many years.
The Podimata own-initiative report adopted by Parliament does not entail a definitive yes or no to the issue of a financial transaction tax.
One of the framework conditions for this feasibility study is that competitiveness should not be impaired by the financial transaction tax.
The own-initiative report did not just deal with the issue of a financial transaction tax, but also with the smooth functioning of competition policy in the EU and the introduction of a carbon tax following the VAT model, to be charged on every product in the internal market.
We cannot accept this carbon tax.
I abstained from the final vote because I could not vote in favour of a report that links one good idea, a transaction tax, with measures that would place an even greater burden on the people of Europe.
In recent years, the global economic and financial crisis has exposed major weaknesses in the global financial system's regulatory and supervisory framework.
I voted for this report because the problems caused by this market behaviour have had a major impact on public finances, European citizens and beyond.
The report intends to create tools designed to reduce speculation, guarantee a fair distribution of the burden between the key financial players and create new additional resources to meet the major challenges.
Tax evasion and fraud are currently estimated to cost EU Member States approximately EUR 250 billion a year.
The novel element is the tax on financial transactions, which would generate revenues of approximately EUR 200 billion per year for the EU and would discourage speculative transactions.
in writing. - In voting for this report, Euro MPs are responding to the public's call for fair taxation of the financial sector.
The financial sector is largely exempt from VAT and is under-taxed, while ordinary citizens have faced the costs of the financial crisis, including contributing EUR 9 500 in government support from every man, woman and child in the EU.
In this vote, MEPs have backed the hundreds of thousands of campaigners who are actively working for a Robin Hood Tax - a tiny tax on financial transactions that can raise billions to meet priorities at home and our commitments to fighting poverty and climate change internationally.
Global agreement would be the best way to introduce such a tax, but the UK's stamp duty on shares demonstrates it is possible to introduce a successful, well-designed financial transaction tax (FTT) without undermining competitiveness.
An EU-wide coordinated FTT would be the first step towards a global FTT.
It is time for action and the EU can lead this campaign for global fairer taxation.
in writing. - Labour Euro MPs are responding to the public's call for fair taxation of the financial sector.
The financial sector is largely exempt from VAT and is under-taxed, while ordinary citizens have faced the costs of the financial crisis, including contributing EUR 9 500 in government support from every man, woman and child in the EU.
In this vote, Labour Euro MPs have backed the hundreds of thousands of campaigners who are actively working for a Robin Hood Tax - a tiny tax on financial transactions that can raise billions to meet priorities at home and our commitments to fighting poverty and climate change internationally.
Global agreement would be the best way to introduce such a tax, but the UK's stamp duty on shares demonstrates it is possible to introduce a successful, well-designed financial transaction tax (FTT) without undermining competitiveness.
An EU-wide coordinated FTT would be the first step towards a global FTT.
It is time for action and the EU can lead this campaign for global fairer taxation.
The idea of a tax on financial transactions has been advocated by the Left for years.
Nevertheless, a tax on financial transactions should be aimed solely at promoting the general interest of the people, not the smooth operation of free trade or of the pollution rights trading that some - and indeed this text - call the 'carbon market'.
Despite agreeing with a large part of the content of this report, I could not vote in favour of it since it advocates the introduction of a financial transaction tax (at a global, or at least European, level), although it admits that the consequences of doing so need to be studied (proposing an a posteriori study for this).
The party that I represent has always fought against the introduction of such a financial transaction tax in Portugal, in the light of the detrimental effect it could have on the financial markets.
The introduction of such a tax only at a European level could lead to other markets gaining competitive advantages in relation to European financial markets.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted in favour of the Podimata report regarding innovative financing on a global and European scale as it introduces an idea that has been one of the pillars of the Left in the world: the introduction of a financial transaction tax.
The text could certainly be much braver and not make this tax dependent upon the creation of a similar tax at global level.
My political organisation has always advocated the need to create a tax on world capital flow, such as the so-called 'Tobin tax'.
With the global economic and monetary crisis of 2007, we were able to observe the major weaknesses of the global financial system's regulatory and supervision framework.
I am convinced that such a tax would not only allow for better regulation of the financial sector by restricting purely speculative activity, but would also help the poorest, particularly developing countries, and the least developed countries among them, to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and to take the measures necessary to adapt to climate change.
A tax on financial transactions at European level could potentially generate around EUR 200 billion of revenue per year in the Union and close to USD 650 billion per year globally.
If we made consistent progress at European level by applying a tax on international financial transactions, we would preserve the strong message we sent in December 2010 when we adopted the recommendation entitled 'the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations concerning measures and initiatives to be taken'.
in writing. - The adoption of this report would be the first strong signal by Parliament in favour of a financial transaction tax at a time when the Commission has an ambiguous approach, both showing a willingness to regulate financial actors but exempting them from taxation.
It is necessary to point to the hypocritical discourse of some right-wing leaders, calling for a form of taxation of the financial sector, but only at global level, where we all know it is most unlikely to be implemented.
The Commission should give a precise and clear signal about the fact that the transaction tax must be paid by everyone.
The situation where farmers pay tax while financiers do not is not acceptable.
The introduction of a financial transaction tax is a step in the right direction and would mainly affect hedge funds and similar products, which would seem to be of very little benefit to the real economy.
However, a financial transaction tax should not be used as an opportunity to introduce an EU tax by the back door.
Unfortunately, however, Mrs Podimata's report takes us in precisely that direction.
Fiscal sovereignty must remain with the Member States.
There are enough powers already that could be better regulated at a national level than at EU level.
For this reason, the report should be rejected.
I voted against this report because, while the idea of a contribution by the financial system, which is greatly to blame for the crisis of the last two years, seems right, the way it is implemented leaves me very puzzled.
It is therefore important that other instruments should be used to ensure that the players and speculators in the financial markets shoulder some of the responsibility.
This report reveals tendencies in this direction, which is why I have voted against it.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on innovative financing at global and European level.
I believe that the tax on financial transactions is an effective financing measure that would help reduce speculation and public deficits.
Furthermore, in order to increase the GDP of all countries, it would be advisable to establish a tax on bank assets which would be proportionate to the systemic significance of the credit institution concerned and to the level of risk involved in an activity.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament's own-initiative report on innovative financing at a global and European level.
The financial crisis and the debt crisis have revealed the gaps in the operation and control of the financial sector today.
The introduction of a tax on global financial transactions is not a new proposal and it is certainly an unpopular proposal in all the developed countries without exception, especially in those which apply low taxation policies.
This report relates to innovative means of financing at a world and European level.
The report on innovative financing addresses a number of important aspects, such as the importance of creating a real internal market as a basis for European growth, the importance of enabling the financing of European infrastructure projects by means of European project bonds, as well as a possible solution with regard to a European carbon tax so that we can switch to sustainable production in Europe.
We nevertheless chose to abstain in the final vote because we do not believe that it is a good idea for Europe to introduce a financial transaction tax independently if other countries do not also do the same.
We believe that the Swedish example of the unilateral introduction of a kind of financial transaction tax in the 1980s, which resulted in the majority of trade in shares, bonds and options moving to London, should be taken into consideration so that we do not make the same mistake at European level.
We consider there to be a big risk that the stabilising effects that we hope a financial transaction tax will have on the financial market will not be realised if the EU introduces such a tax independently.
In order to tackle the global financial crisis and the major recession resulting from it, several governments have increased sovereign debt to unsustainable levels, with the aim of rescuing financial companies and stimulating their respective economies.
At the same time, banks are accumulating profits through the differential between loans obtained from central banks at an interest rate of almost nil and the price at which they grant credit to customers and to states.
Thus, it is a moral imperative for financial businesses to shoulder their responsibilities in the face of the crisis that they caused.
I voted in favour of the report because it is high time for the EU to take the lead and to introduce a financial transaction tax at European level.
The amendment proposed by my group calling for the introduction of a financial transaction tax at EU level without further delay (such as the carrying out of more studies) was passed by a narrow majority.
I would now call on the responsible Commissioner, Mr Šemeta, finally to take action.
A total of EUR 200 billion could be collected in this way - funds that are sorely needed and that should be contributed by those who caused the crisis.
This money should be used both for budgetary consolidation and as a separate source of revenue for the EU budget.
in writing. - The European Parliament today reiterated the call for the introduction of an EU-level financial transaction tax, as part of a report on innovative financing adopted by MEPs.
MEPs have today urged the Commission to take steps to this end.
It is time for the Commission and Member States to stop stalling'.
The recent economic crisis has laid bare the shortcomings of the system for regulating and supervising global finance.
The first to take the brunt have been taxpayers, also in terms of rising unemployment, dwindling incomes, reduced access to social services and increasing inequalities.
The idea of a levy on financial transactions has important advantages, especially in the aftermath of a crisis like the present one: stabilising the markets, providing incentives for long-term investment and ensuring traceability for the auditing of individual transactions.
In today's vote, we saw support for the report concerning innovative financing in the world and in Europe.
The only part that was not supported was the proposal calling on the Commission to investigate the feasibility of the EU's carbon tax, which, like VAT, will be introduced onto the internal market for each product.
With the bank taxes, taxes on financial activity and taxes on financial transactions, everyone has their own economic objective, and their potential for bringing in income differs, so it is important that, before imposing additional taxes, an in-depth analysis is carried out.
Even the Governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King, admitted last week that the cost of the austerity measures being taken in Britain, and across Europe, were being borne by 'people who were utterly blameless' while the financial sector had gone back to a 'business as usual' mentality.
It is right that the private sector should pay its share for the consequences of the financial crisis and provide for any future bail-out given the existence of many banks which are still deemed 'too big to fail'.
in writing. - During today's vote on the Podimata report on innovative financing, a separate amendment was voted on that called on the Commission to come forward with proposals for an EU-level financial transaction tax proposal in the absence of any initiatives at the G20 level.
I voted in favour of the amendment for the purposes of group solidarity and because I believe that clear support for the concept of an FTT from Europe may spur further discussions at the G20.
However, I am very clear that the introduction of an FTT at EU level, if not also implemented globally, raises potential risks to the UK's competitive position as a financial centre, which has a clear impact on citizens in South-East England.
I voted against the report, as it does not guarantee that a tax on financial transactions would be used for the purpose for which a true Tobin tax should be used, namely, developing countries and investments in the climate.
My vote should not be construed as opposition to a tax on financial transactions in the EU.
Today, I once again voted in favour of the introduction of a financial transaction tax (FTT) and agreed that, if we fail to impose an FTT at a global level, the EU should take the first step, anyway.
After all, a global crisis requires global solutions and Europe, as the largest financial market, can play a pioneering role in this regard.
A financial transaction tax could provide Member States with sufficient revenue to balance their budgets and keep their economies going.
Because the revenue potential of an FTT of 0.05% amounts to nearly EUR 200 billion in the EU and USD 650 billion globally, this tax could also form an important part of the solution in the search for new and sustainable sources of income.
An FTT could limit speculation and stabilise markets, create incentives for long-term investments and, because each transaction is traceable, it could increase transparency and ensure that financial players accept their share of the cost of the crisis.
It also calls for a debate on the use of revenue which could come from a FTT.
I strongly supported the introduction of a tax on financial transactions at global level during the vote on the report on innovative financing at global and European level.
However, the possibility of applying such a tax exclusively at European level should first be the subject of a feasibility study by the European Commission.
This own-initiative report is the result of a desire to find new, innovative sources of financing.
Taxation instruments based on the receipt of income are not considered to be sufficient.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of the document during the plenary session.
However, in order to deceive the workers, it calls on the EU to adopt a 'financial transaction tax' of 0.01%, which is presented as an allegedly 'fair distribution of the burden' of the crisis between capital and the workers and an effort to limit speculation by capital.
The financial transaction tax is not a tax on the financial sector; it is another indirect tax.
Alongside this new indirect tax, a whole series of so-called 'innovative financing' measures, or rather new taxes on grassroots incomes, is also proposed, such as a 'carbon tax', a 'solidarity contribution on air tickets', even a 'global lottery' to combat hunger.
The Greek Communist Party voted against this particular report, underlining that the only popular way out of the capitalist crisis is to target the profits of the monopolies.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report.
In my opinion, Mrs Podimata's report is very well balanced and very well explained, and I welcome the four financial instruments introduced by the report.
The four measures are all innovative and I would like to stress that this is not solely about the issue of a financial transaction tax.
Thus, for the final phase of this issue, the Commission should conduct an evaluation through an impact assessment of the efficiency and potential results of using these instruments.
The report contains some good ideas, for example, a financial transaction tax of just 0.05% that would net EUR 200 billion for the EU's budget.
A tiny tax on financial transactions will be able to be put to use to fight poverty in the UK and across the world and mitigate the effects of climate change.
Campaigners for this so-called Robin Hood tax, including Labour MEPs, now need to expand on their success and continue to put pressure on the global financial sector to expand this scheme to create a worldwide Financial Transaction Tax.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which is aimed at encouraging innovative financing by means of a tax on financial transactions, increasing the economy's recovery capacities, and promoting the transition to green growth while maintaining aid to developing countries.
It is time to move on from this short-term vision of the economy, where money is all-important and irresponsibility is everywhere, and which led us to the edge of the abyss, so that the financial system can resume its role of serving the real economy and the people.
The European Union should set an example in this regard, and the resolution adopted by this House sends a strong signal to our partners.
I have voted in favour of the report by Mrs Podimata on innovative financing at global and European level.
Until now, only the European taxpayer has borne the brunt of the financial and economic crisis in 2007 and subsequent years.
This is the first report to consider a variety of innovative mechanisms designed to ensure that players in the financial markets also carry some of the costs.
The proposal for a financial transaction tax at global level, if possible, is to be welcomed and a similar scheme at EU level should be seriously considered as an alternative.
By taxing the financial sector, we could generate incentives for longer term investments again, thus considering the needs of the real economy.
I am voting in favour of this report because the importance of reducing inequalities in the area of health is intrinsically linked to the reduction of social inequalities, as pointed out in this report.
In addition to this, I strongly support the rapporteur's recommendations defending the need to promote universal access to health, including for undocumented migrants, and access to welfare protection for pregnant women in line with legislation in their own countries.
Edite Estrela's report serves to review the health inequalities that exist within the European Union and the measures that need to be taken to reduce them.
Thus, it is a useful report and one for which I voted, not least to reaffirm the inviolable nature of the right to abortion and the need for easy access to methods of contraception, at a time when these rights are not yet effective in all the Member States of the European Union.
The march towards equality goes on.
There are very significant health inequalities between countries and regions in the European Union.
Due to the economic and financial crisis, some Member States have taken austerity measures leading to a reduction in the level of funding for public health, disease prevention and long-term care services.
Not all EU citizens have access to quality health services.
I believe that the European Commission must take measures to reduce disparities and inequality of access to quality healthcare services faced by people in the EU and establish mechanisms to monitor inequalities in health.
The Commission should also present an initiative, aimed at encouraging and supporting the development by Member States of integrated national or regional strategies to reduce health inequalities.
As the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I pointed out the need to seek solutions.
These will necessarily involve all participants: the European Union, national governments, regional and local authorities, and operators within the social economy.
The challenges facing the European Union, the result of demographic changes, require a concrete plan for combating health inequalities in rural areas.
Campaigns promoting healthy lifestyles and prevention and screening programmes directed at specific groups are also important for reducing health inequalities.
For all of the above reasons, I supported this report.
Indeed, this report is a reminder that inequalities also affect health services and that it is important to act on the fundamental causes of those inequalities so that all European citizens can at last enjoy their fundamental social rights.
The report also mentions undocumented migrants, who often face tremendous difficulty in accessing health services in host countries.
Hence, we invite the Member States to improve access to healthcare for all, whether citizens or not, and call on them to further coordinate their national health policies.
Indeed, access to high quality healthcare is one of the most fundamental rights and should therefore be a priority both for the Union and for the Member States, which still have jurisdiction in this area.
In the European Union, there are significant health inequalities and measures to tackle these inequalities also vary widely within Member States.
This report contains very interesting solutions for acknowledging the specific right to health of citizens, in particular, by focusing both on training the population and on health service coverage.
The social consequences of the recent economic and financial crisis are obvious: since the crisis began, the number of jobless people has increased by 5 million, many households have been affected by the recession and are now more at risk of poverty or a situation of excessive indebtedness.
I think it is essential that reducing these inequalities should be considered a priority at all levels of decision making.
I also call on the Commission to give them greater recognition in the EU 2020 strategy and to ensure that the objective of reducing health inequalities is fully taken into account in future initiatives.
I voted in favour of this report because health inequalities are a problem that needs to be tackled as a matter of urgency.
Inequalities experienced in earlier life in access to education, employment and healthcare, as well as those based on gender and cultural background, can have a critical bearing on the health status of people throughout their lives.
Furthermore, poverty and social exclusion have a significant impact on the state of health.
The reasons for these differences in health are, in many cases, avoidable and unjust.
In order to tackle health inequalities, specific measures need to be taken, particularly as regards the most vulnerable groups.
It is essential that the reduction of health inequalities is considered an essential priority, ensuring effective impact assessments in the area of health.
The crisis has hit healthcare services hard in several EU Member States in terms of both supply and demand.
Several Member States have included as part of their recovery packages measures to alleviate the effects of the economic crisis on healthcare services, by investing in the health service's infrastructure, making optimum use of the funds allocated to healthcare services, as well as by restructuring and reorganising the healthcare system.
However, there are large discrepancies in Member States in terms of measures adopted to combat inequalities.
Access is a key issue in the case of all public services.
Gathering and exchanging evidence on effective strategies, policies and measures will help obtain support at administrative level and in different sectors.
I agree with the assertion of the rapporteur, Mrs Estrela, that enormous health disparities exist both between people who live in different regions of the EU and between more advantaged and less advantaged population groups.
These inequalities tend to begin at birth and persist into old age, influenced throughout life by access to education, employment and healthcare, and may be exacerbated by differences based on gender and race.
It is essential to reduce the size of the existing disparities, which jeopardise the commitments made by the EU with regard to solidarity, social and economic cohesion, human rights and equality of opportunity, as a result of which this is one of the priority actions within the 2008-2013 EU strategy for health.
However, it is important to recognise that health policy is the responsibility of the Member States, together with the establishment of respective systems for people to access healthcare.
The report describes several interesting measures, but does not examine their financial impact.
The principles of universality, access to high quality care, equity and solidarity must become a reality within the health systems of the European Union.
That is why the European Parliament, by a large majority, adopted the Estrela report.
Many inequalities can still be seen in the health systems of the 27 Member States.
MEPs have therefore called for universal access to affordable healthcare to be improved.
Basic care must be less expensive and access to medicines more affordable.
This is what MEPs are asking the European Commission and the governments of the Member States to do, in order to ensure a health standard in Europe that is worthy of the European social model that we want.
I was anxious to support Edite Estrela's report on reducing health inequalities between the countries of the European Union, but also within them.
These inequalities, which are unfair, are the product of numerous economic, environmental and lifestyle factors, but also of difficulties in accessing healthcare, be it for economic reasons or because of 'poor distribution of medical resources' in certain areas of the Union.
Although health policy remains (for the most part) a national responsibility, we MEPs have a duty to encourage our Member States to continue their efforts to reduce socio-economic inequalities, thereby also reducing disparities in healthcare.
A special focus is also needed on health prevention and information, in coordination with organisations from civil society.
Despite the fact that the report contains provisions that I consider to be of great relevance on the growing importance of healthcare provision for the elderly and the need to improve knowledge of diseases that affect older people in particular, in general, it says little that is new.
In fact, by trying to mention everything, it ends up being a 'wish list', to which the rapporteur has added, on the pretext of 'reducing health inequalities', issues as diverse - and unconnected to equality of access to healthcare - as domestic violence, investigation of the pharmaceutical sector, and the policies of the Member States with regard to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and access to fertility treatment for homosexuals.
For this reason as well, I cannot vote in favour of the report.
It is essential that the reduction of inequalities be considered a fundamental priority at all levels of political activity, in pursuit of the 'health in all policies' strategy and ensuring that effective impact assessments are conducted.
Inequalities persist, as shown by the fact that, in 2007, life expectancy at birth showed a variation of 14.2 years between EU Member States for men, and 8.3 years for women.
There is a need to improve universal access to health systems and healthcare that is financially accessible to all.
It is important to improve access to disease prevention and health promotion, as well as to primary and specialist health services, and to reduce inequalities between different social groups.
However, there are some comments that we need to make.
The so-called austerity policies, which are profoundly anti-social in essence and in content, with cuts in public investment and the social functions of the state - specifically with regard to health - among other consequences that are extremely detrimental from an economic and social point of view, are also exacerbating inequalities in the area of health.
When, in the name of the need to reduce the budget deficit, the cost of accessing public health services increases, medicine prices increase, even for chronic illnesses, due to cuts in state subsidies, and support for patient transport to treatment and healthcare appointments is removed in areas where there is no public transport, health inequalities will increase, as is happening at the moment in Portugal.
The effect of this is that people on lower incomes have increasing difficulty in accessing healthcare.
This report tackles a set of important questions, but it does not go to the heart of the problems that are currently being caused by austerity policies and anti-social policies that are increasing inequalities in the area of health.
Neoliberal policies need to be dispensed with, and top priority given to prevention and public health, in order to guarantee effective equality of opportunity in access to healthcare.
The Stability Pact needs to be dispensed with in order to prevent the cost of accessing public health services increasing, medicine prices increasing, even for chronic illnesses, and support for patient transport to treatment and healthcare appointments being removed, even in areas where there is no public transport, all in the name of the need to reduce the budget deficit.
We know that the result of these policies is an increase in health-related inequalities, as is currently happening in Portugal.
People on lower incomes are having increasing difficulty in accessing healthcare.
Therefore, rather than fine words, what is needed is a break and change in policies, in order to give priority to respect for human rights and to economic and social cohesion.
We are bound to acknowledge that this report contains a number of very interesting points with regard to recognising the right to health in the real sense (access to care, training of the population, service coverage, etc.).
Equality should be understood in a real sense and not by isolating individuals (especially women) from their relationships with their partners, children and the social context in which sexuality and reproductive ability are actually exercised.
Similarly, we can highlight some shortcomings such as the document's complete failure to mention professional operators: it says nothing about their role and their responsibilities, they are treated as automatons and not as professionals with their own skills, abilities and, above all, their own personal consciences.
Furthermore, it aims to eliminate discrimination regarding access to assisted reproductive technology - particularly discrimination based on age or sexual orientation - while, at the same time, claiming that we must promote universal access to abortion.
Let us remember that in France, such care is actually accessible to any illegal immigrant for any complaint - the original intention being to respond to emergencies or to the risk of epidemics - and the conditions on such access are minimal and unverifiable.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report on Reducing health inequalities, which addresses the various gaps present in healthcare throughout the EU-27.
The rapporteur highlights the fact that the disparity in the health of citizens throughout the Union is, in many cases, due to the differences in opportunity, in access to services and material resources, social background, income and education; and also that such differences have been exacerbated further following the financial crisis.
I am in agreement with various issues raised in this report - one being the suggestion that the Commission collaborate with Member States in the promotion of best practices on pricing and reimbursement of the cost of medicines, with the aim of optimising affordability and reducing inequalities in access to medicines; another being for the EU and Member States to recognise male violence against women as a public health issue; and also the calling on Member States to adapt their health systems to the needs of the most vulnerable in society by developing methods for setting the fees charged by healthcare professionals for guaranteeing access to care for all patients.
However, I am not in agreement with references made in the report which support the promotion of abortion.
Older people should be able to make use of medications which have been tested for effectiveness and safety on people of the same age.
Without further ado, the Union and the Member States must plan for the social and economic consequences of an ageing European population and take this demographic change into account.
The fight against health inequalities between the countries and regions of the EU - inequalities which have been exacerbated by the economic crisis - has finally become a priority thanks to the adoption of Mrs Estrela's report.
Furthermore, this report takes into account the gender aspect of health inequalities and improves women's access to reproductive care.
These considerable steps forward are only the beginning of the fight against health inequalities in the EU.
Inequalities experienced in earlier life in access to education, employment and healthcare, as well as those based on gender and cultural background, can have a critical bearing on the health status of people throughout their lives.
Many households have seen their income drop, a considerable number is more exposed to poverty and over indebtedness, and some have lost their homes.
An innovative view of policy is needed to tackle health inequalities, especially for people in lower socio-economic groups.
Hitherto, insufficient attention has been paid to the issue of narrowing health inequalities in Europe.
These problems have to be resolved comprehensively.
It is possible to address the factors that result in health inequalities through sociopolitical action.
For example, alcohol consumption can be dealt with through policies implemented at national level (like pricing and tax policies), through regional policy (by stepping up controls), and through local activity policy (for example, by developing leisure activities for youth).
At European level, we need to exchange information on best health practices between the Member States.
It is important that we stress the need to reduce health inequalities at all levels of decision making.
We are all very well aware of the importance of health.
Unfortunately, we often fail to appreciate it properly until one of our family members or friends falls ill, or we fall ill ourselves.
Access to healthcare is only one of many factors determining the health of the citizens of any country or area.
Our priority, and the priority of the European Union, should be to ensure that absolutely all the inhabitants of our continent enjoy equal access to healthcare, and to eliminate social differences.
The health and welfare of citizens is a priority that this Parliament must guarantee and safeguard.
It therefore happens that the most vulnerable groups, migrants, the elderly, children and the disabled pay, sometimes with their lives, the high price of having the right to health denied them.
This should not happen, either at European level, or at national or regional level.
I voted for the resolution, which stands for the elimination of inequalities between Member States regarding public health standards and promotes health policies that are more efficient and affordable for everyone, not only for users, but also for those who, in their capacity as employees and medical staff, will thus be able to find more suitable working conditions to enable them to work effectively for the good of all.
I would like to make it known that I voted against the Estrela report on reducing health inequalities as a result of paragraph 25 of the text, which emphasises, among other things, that the European Union and the Member States must guarantee women the right to safe abortion.
I would like to note that the abovementioned document raises many important health issues, and provides us with interesting material to use as a basis for further work, but I could not vote in favour of its adoption due to the reference to abortion.
The reasons often stem from differences in terms of opportunities, access to services and material resources, as well as from different life choices made by individuals.
The economic and financial crisis of recent years has resulted in a reduction in the level of funding for health services and long-term care as a result of budget cuts and reductions in tax revenue, while the demand for health services and long-term care has increased.
Numerous Member States have included in their recovery plans measures such as investments in healthcare restructuring and additional financing of the health system.
The collection and sharing of data on strategies, policies and effective interventions will help to obtain support from governments.
in writing. - I voted for this report and welcome its focus on inequality in health among lower socio-economic groups.
I welcome the attention given to the importance of housing and employment factors with regard to health.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for an excellent piece of work, and to thank her for accepting my amendment proposals.
The issue of equal access to health is one of the pillars of our common policy, both now and especially in the future.
In my opinion, it is very significant that the text emphasises greater patient awareness and high quality legal advice for immigrants, as well as for others, including illegal immigrants.
The fundamental principle must be that the health of individual citizens is secured through territorial and financial accessibility, and not only to medicines.
These conditions affect both elderly and particularly young people, and lead to social exclusion.
It emphasises the importance of maintaining and improving universality and access for all to high quality healthcare, including for undocumented immigrants, among other vulnerable groups.
It draws attention to the fact that the economic and financial crisis, together with the austerity measures imposed by Member States, have had a severe impact on the health sector, and this will make inequalities even more marked.
In the light of the above, and to encourage the suggestions contained in the report, I voted in favour.
Ensuring access to care for everyone, both citizens and non-citizens, with or without papers, is a basic principle of public safety.
I welcome this report, which makes this argument for public health as indispensable for the common good.
The report voted on here deals with some important issues, mainly with regard to the defence of equal healthcare for all, a situation which, unfortunately, is not yet the case in the EU, in particular, among more disadvantaged groups, such as children, the elderly, and in some cases women.
However, in my opinion, a number of other issues are also addressed that have nothing to do with health.
What strikes me most is the approach taken towards the policies of the Member States with regard to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and access to fertility treatment for homosexuals, which, in my opinion, should respect the principle of subsidiarity and be handled in a less surreptitious manner.
Hence, I voted against this report.
It is the very people most at risk of exclusion that have to see that this fundamental right is guaranteed.
in writing. - Inequalities experienced in earlier life in access to education, employment and healthcare, as well as those based on gender and cultural background, do indeed have a critical bearing on the health status of people throughout their lives.
I voted for that report.
Public health continues to be our greatest asset and should be regarded as an absolute priority by governments.
The reasons for this are partly to be found in poor levels of education, and high levels of poverty and unemployment.
It is therefore hardly surprising that the wave of redundancies that followed the economic crisis has not had a positive effect on public health.
After all, loss of income significantly reduces access to medical services in many countries.
I have not voted in favour of the report, because it does not provide enough concrete detail about strategies to deal with the problem.
Suggestions for improving healthcare in Europe through health education, access to treatment, knowledge of data and the use of mechanisms to measure, monitor, evaluate and communicate information provide an important contribution to the development of policies that are effective for reducing health inequalities.
In doing these things, I nevertheless naturally think it is equally important to respect the principle of subsidiarity and certain national traits and characteristics that I believe must be defended and protected.
This report on the reduction of health inequalities in the EU sets out various measures that I believe to be worthwhile and important.
Nevertheless, I abstained from the final vote as I could not agree with the EU and the Member States having to guarantee women completely free access to abortion.
I also do not believe that there should be free access to assisted reproduction technologies, which should be subject to the principle of subsidiarity and never used as an instrument for eliminating discrimination against women because of their marital status, age, sexual orientation, or ethnic or cultural origin.
A rise in the unemployment rate and the austerity measures could exacerbate the health inequalities which already exist in the EU.
I voted for this resolution to call for an improvement in monitoring and preventive measures against diseases, as well as for attention to be focused on the vulnerable groups.
Parameters such as life expectancy in the various Member States still show too much variability from region to region, demonstrating that healthcare quality standards are still too heterogeneous within the EU.
Access to primary and secondary education, a stable and satisfactory job, gender, cultural background and access to quality healthcare are the factors that contribute to enhancing the quality of life of citizens more than any others.
For this reason, the report should prioritise the rights of the weakest, especially women and their specific needs.
Although we agree with the basic principle of the report, namely, that the average level of health in the European Union has continued to improve despite major differences in healthcare due to the different systems in Member States, it is deficient when it comes to the rights of migrants.
These are included among the most vulnerable groups such as the disabled, elderly and children, not taking into account the fact that many migrants are illegal, and have therefore arrived in Europe improperly.
We cannot therefore consider migrants in the same way as disabled people, who are a vulnerable group that requires special care and assistance appropriate to their needs.
The approved amendments actually made the text worse by including various topics such as climate change, violence against women, assisted reproduction and equal access to healthcare for illegal migrants.
On behalf of the four Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament (Dan Jørgensen, Christel Schaldemose, Britta Thomsen and Ole Christensen).
However, it also proposes that undocumented migrants be entitled to and guaranteed access to health services in the Member States.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report to support the approach of the rapporteur who has set out principles which should really matter concerning women's health.
Many women in European society do not have essential rights to health programmes and access to facilities because of their social and economic position within our society, in particular, ethnic minorities and migrant women who may be undocumented.
While it is important to safeguard against 'health tourism' as it is unfortunately termed, it is also essential to remember our commitment to fundamental human rights.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which looks at different health inequalities in Member States and encourages them to keep healthcare as a priority during the financial crisis and recovery.
I voted in favour of the report on reducing health inequalities in the EU because I believe that there are currently great disparities between the Member States in relation to health.
All the Member States of the Union must ensure that women have easy access to methods of contraception and the right to abortion, for example.
in writing. - I voted against this report as I believe it failed to address its subject matter of health inequalities and took a totally different approach.
Although there are many parts of the report I do not agree with, I would like to focus on the liberties given to 'undocumented' or 'irregular' migrants, as they are referred to in the report, which, in essence, is a method of renaming illegal immigrants.
I voted against the report because it once again promotes abortion by the back door.
Although I am not in a majority in taking this position, I will not be changing my stance and refuse to sacrifice a single life because of contemporary mores.
I welcome this work very much because although the current financial and economic crisis means that we are mainly required to deal with economic and legislative questions, we should never lose sight of issues such as health, education and social security.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the report.
I approve this report, taking into account the amendments proposed by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
We have a duty to transfer our experience of economic governance, so that developing countries can establish their own tax systems.
This is the only way in which it will be possible to create a fairer and more equitable and sustainable tax system, combat evasion, and, as a result, promote a better international fiscal environment.
I would also highlight the importance of this report in stressing the urgency of abolishing tax havens, a fundamental measure in the area of transparency that will enable the necessary automatic exchange of tax information.
While taxation can be a reliable and sustainable source of financing given a progressive taxation system, efficient fiscal administration and transparent and responsible use of tax receipts, many developing countries are failing to enforce a minimum tax rate to finance their public services.
The European Union must therefore cooperate with these countries in order to encourage good governance in tax matters.
Combating tax havens is one of the principal challenges set out in the Millennium Development Goals, as they weaken developing countries' institutions and their political systems.
I agree with the proposals made in the report that when allocating financial assistance, donors should support developing countries' efforts to improve tax governance and ensure that aid is used transparently and responsibly.
This report, by agreement with the Commission, focuses on strengthening synergies between fiscal policies and development policies.
To achieve this, the Commission, in fact, published two studies, and one year ago in this House, a resolution was approved on the same subject.
I voted for the report because I support the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and governance of the tax system, the commitment to support the tax systems of developing countries, dialogue and international cooperation in the field of taxation.
It is even more complex and difficult to correct the situation in developing countries, due to internal factors such as vast informal sectors, the predominance of agriculture and the limited use of new technologies.
I applaud the Commission's initiative in cooperating with these countries in order to promote good governance in tax matters through a report that identifies the main problems and solutions in a way that promotes synergies between fiscal policy and development policy, making both more efficient.
The existence of efficient, transparent and equitable tax systems is crucial for the advancement of developing countries, in that they contribute to the financing of their public assets, the sustainability of their institutions, their reduced dependency on external aid and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
Within this context, I believe that the EU should, on the one hand, concentrate on taking action against tax havens and tax evasion (which undermine political and economic systems in developing countries by encouraging financial crime and inequality in the redistribution of tax revenues) and, on the other, establish a process of cooperation and dialogue with the tax authorities of these countries.
It should be noted that tax systems in developing countries are characterised by being based on indirect taxation (in which most revenue comes from the taxation of goods and services), which constrains tax revenues and creates inefficiency within these systems.
These losses in resources can be compensated for by better governance and a fairer and more efficient taxation system.
We should therefore develop improved technical and legal support in these countries in order to introduce a fair, progressive and transparent taxation system; for example, we should abolish all discretionary tax exemptions and preferences for multinationals and mining companies.
Another way in which we can further help these countries is to put an end to the tax havens which seriously hinder their development.
All these provisions must not, however, lead to a fall in official development assistance.
We should remain vigilant on this point, as the Member States are always inclined to reduce the portion of their GDP allocated to official development assistance.
I voted for this report for the following reasons: it emphasises the need to tackle the phenomena of tax competition and tax evasion in the countries of the South; it states that the automatic exchange of information on taxation matters should be applied universally; it underlines the importance of the principle of 'country-by-country' reporting for all multinational companies; it advocates combating the phenomenon of tax havens, going beyond the insufficient actions of the OECD; and it emphasises the need to increase the consistency of European policies in support of development.
The basis of this report is a Commission document that acknowledges the link between the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and good tax governance.
It is through good economic governance that these countries will be able to move away from their dependence on external aid, contributing to the development of the public and private sectors and to economic growth.
This report deals with taxation and development in developing countries.
In order to achieve the goals set by the UN in 2000 in the Millennium Declaration, these countries need to know how to promote good governance in tax matters, by maximising all external support.
In 2009, the European Commission, which has an interest in cooperation with these countries, published the document 'Tax and development - Cooperating with developing countries on promoting good governance in tax matters', with the objective of promoting synergies between development policy and tax policy, in order to make them fairer, more transparent and more effective.
I therefore support this report, which calls for the end of tax havens - veritable 'weapons of mass destruction' for developing countries - the combating of economic crime, action against tax evasion and unfair competition, and development through good governance.
The report identifies a set of questions that are relevant and very much of the moment, namely: - Making 'the fight against tax havens and corruption a top priority of the agenda'; - 'Difficulties encountered by developing countries in raising domestic revenues ..., multiple exemptions being granted to large domestic and foreign companies in order to attract investments'; - 'The financial transaction tax' at an international level, with 'a first step at the EU level'; - 'Low income countries need the capacity to effectively negotiate with multinational corporations' in order to 'impose capital controls' and fully exercise their sovereignty.
However, this report is not free of contradictions, in particular, when it identifies the problems that will derive from the implementation of economic partnership agreements, namely, with regard to the reduction in tax revenue, but does not adopt a clear position rejecting such agreements.
While recognising that cooperation in the area of taxation can be important, we should not ignore the fact that tax policy is an essential instrument of economic and social policy, on the definition of which clear political criteria and evaluations have an impact.
Meanwhile, the so-called 'Economic Partnership Agreements' that we have been imposing on developing countries, despite their resistance, severely constrain their tax systems though the significant reduction in customs revenues that they involve, alongside other serious damage.
The European Union, therefore, needs to change its policies and resolve these contradictions.
I voted in favour of this document because it identifies positive aspects such as a clear understanding of taxation, which is essential to provide the basis for an accountable and responsive democratic system.
The Commission supports country-by-country financial reporting standards for multinationals as a tool to detect international tax avoidance and evasion practice.
It is also important to underline the fact that a Communication on Corporate Social Responsibility will consider how to develop a system for mandatory disclosure of governance information in annual accounting.
The Commission aims to step up the process of international dialogue and cooperation in tax matters, notably by enhancing the participation of developing countries in relevant international fora.
Appropriate taxation systems form a basis for sustainable economic growth and monetary stability.
Developing countries, where such systems do not function properly or indeed at all, face serious economic and political problems.
International legal standards supporting the proper functioning of taxation systems should have a positive impact on the economic situation in such countries.
Let us remember, however, that we should not, under any circumstances, impose taxation policies on others, since every country must decide for itself on its own taxation systems, taking into account its current social, political and economic conditions.
Let us therefore support good taxation policies, but not impose them.
Efforts to make tax systems more sustainable, fair and transparent also help promote the establishment of democratic systems.
I welcome joint initiatives to combat tax havens, as well as practices that intensify international dialogue between the relevant countries.
A responsible approach to taxation will necessarily have a lasting positive effect on the development of these countries.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which concentrates on the need to strengthen the capacities of good tax governance for development and sees the need for a regulatory framework designed to support international tax cooperation, transparency, public and private sector development and economic growth; highlights that tax-to-GDP ratios in developing countries range between 10 and 20%, as opposed to between 25 and 40% in developed countries; regrets that too little support has been given so far by donors to tax-related assistance; in this context, welcomes the Commission's proposal to provide enhanced support for assisting developing countries in tax reforms and strengthening tax administrations regarding EDF for ACP States, the Development Cooperation Instrument and the ENP and Partnership Instrument, and support for national supervisory bodies, parliaments and non-state actors, and notes that more emphasis should be placed on efforts to undertake capacity-building within developing countries in order to help them make effective use of the exchange of information and effectively counter tax evasion with their own, internal, legislation.
The Commission is doing a good job in promoting principles and criteria for the development of best governance in tax matters in cooperation with the countries in the developing world.
Criteria of transparency, information exchange and fair tax competition are fundamental.
The Commission seeks to implement this process by strengthening synergies between fiscal and development policies in order to identify the difficulties encountered by such countries in the mobilisation of revenue through taxation.
On the other hand, the Commission still overlooks several issues that require a prompt response.
The economic partnership agreements, negotiated in a disgraceful way by the use of pressure, are ruining the ACP States without leaving them the possibility of recovering in the long term.
It is a reality that poor fiscal governance is detrimental to the satisfactory economic performance of the Member States.
The Commission now acknowledges the link between achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and good tax governance.
It is therefore imperative that tax evasion is combated and concrete steps are taken to harmonise such measures through the entire EU, as it is well known that some countries are more effective than others at combating fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. - We should help developing countries to elaborate policies and provide mechanisms to avoid tax evasion; this entails greater transparency.
Also, we should transfer our economic governance experience to individual countries to help them set up their own tax systems.
Reducing the level of corruption in developing countries and increasing their income will result in stability and balance.
It is a very timely and important report, therefore I voted 'for'.
In particular, when the new tax systems are being implemented with the support of the EU, care should be taken to ensure that the economic partnership agreements between the EU and the developing countries promote this aim, rather than running counter to it.
All the measures taken should result in a fundamental improvement in the living conditions of the majority of the population, who are currently cut off from income from raw materials sales and who are often forced into migration.
I have voted in favour of the report, because it takes a comprehensive view of many of the factors involved.
We must therefore leave developing countries some discretionary powers in this area.
In my opinion, we should establish a tax on financial transactions, which would limit speculation and would make the market function more effectively.
I voted for Mrs Joly's report on Cooperating with developing countries on promoting good governance in tax matters, because, in line with the EU 2020 strategy, I believe it is essential to create global governance to support a global dialogue and international cooperation in the field of taxation.
I agree with the report when it states a wish to increase synergies between fiscal policy and development through the exchange of information in tax matters and through multilateral mechanisms that refer to the EU directive on taxation of savings income to combat evasion and tax avoidance.
I voted in favour of this report on Tax and development - Cooperating with developing countries on promoting good governance in tax matters, as I agree with the rapporteur on its importance for the development of an efficient tax system in developing countries.
In fact, the tax system needs to become the backbone of public finances in developing countries.
The European Commission working document published in April 2009 entitled 'Tax and development - Cooperating with developing countries on promoting good governance in tax matters' provides pointers and methodologies for the promotion of synergies between tax policy and development policy, with the aim of making them both more efficient.
I voted for this report because it clearly recognises the link between achieving the Millennium Development Goals and fiscal governance.
in writing. - Parliament has today highlighted the importance of tackling the erosion of tax revenues in developing countries, notably by doing more to combat tax havens.
The report also calls for the adoption of an international convention on tax matters that would include sanctions both for non-cooperative jurisdictions and for financial institutions that operate with tax havens.
MEPs have also underlined the need to ensure greater transparency by multinational companies on their tax compliance in developing countries, notably the extractive industries, by ensuring country-by-country reporting.
Good tax governance is crucial to development and the EU should support developing countries to this end, particularly against a background of the decline in trade taxes resulting from trade liberalisation globally.
I voted in favour of the text of this report because I support the idea that greater synergy between tax and development policies can help developing countries.
According to the latest Commission reports on taxation and development, taxation, especially if properly devised, can be a source of financing for development policies.
It is no accident that many developing countries do not, in fact, even reach the minimum level of revenue needed to finance basic public services.
Cooperation to strengthen its tax system and the fight against tax havens that facilitate illegal leaks of capital must underpin these processes.
This process should encourage the introduction of financial reporting requirements for each country in order to benefit the fight against poverty.
Taxes play an economic, political and social role in democratic countries.
Tax revenue in developing countries may sustainably fund the development of these countries and improve their citizens' quality of life.
While income tax is one of the main forms of taxation in rich countries, its contribution is minimal in developing countries.
The majority of people are employed informally in agriculture and have irregular incomes, which makes it difficult to enforce income tax effectively.
in writing. - I have supported this report which focuses on the importance of taxation in relation to meeting development policies and suggests ways in which the EU can more effectively use existing funds and instruments for this aim.
The adoption of the report on 'Tax and development - Cooperating with developing countries on promoting good governance in tax matters' is particularly important with regard to the effectiveness of the development aid granted to developing countries by the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission.
Ensuring respect for principles of good governance in tax matters (transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition) and combating tax havens, which hinder the development of the least developed countries, are absolute necessities, and will be a priority of my term of office.
I voted in favour of this specific motion for a resolution because I consider that reforming and updating the tax systems of developing countries is the most important way of preventing illicit capital flight and combating tax evasion.
This capital, which often ends up in tax havens, has a direct impact on the economy of these countries, especially in this particular period of economic crisis.
Improving tax systems will allow us to exert a positive influence on growth in developing countries, apply a framework of good economic governance, promote transparency and gain the citizens' trust.
The establishment of a fully functioning tax system is the basis for any responsible democracy.
The report calls for support for developing countries as they establish such structures, so as to promote responsibility in these states on a sustainable basis.
The report also touches briefly on the problem of so-called 'vulture funds', which I believe should be completely banned.
The need for some consistency between the common agricultural policy and the EU's external trade policy is also clear - it is essential to secure a level playing field for EU producers in the world market, which must not encourage unfair competition.
If this is not negotiated, European farmers will continue to face unfair competition, and will suffer losses and discrimination in relation to competitors outside the European Union.
I support the essential role the agricultural sector plays in providing employment and maintaining the European agri-food model, which is a strategic component of the European economy.
Given that the European Union is the world's biggest importer of agricultural goods, the production methods used in third countries exporting to the EU must provide European consumers with the same guarantees in terms of health, food safety, sustainable development and minimum social standards as those imposed on European producers.
I voted for this report because I believe that the agricultural and food policies must meet some basic objectives, such as food security and safety.
in writing. - The British Conservative Delegation strongly supports the principle of free trade.
Free trade creates prosperity and free trade will make a vital contribution to the recovery of the European economies.
We believe that this report places too much emphasis on protecting EU agricultural markets from outside competition and not enough emphasis on exporting production standards.
EU farmers are required to meet stringent environmental and animal welfare standards, for which they are, in part, compensated through the subsidy system.
However, products imported into the EU from third countries very often do not conform to those same high standards.
The EU should actively seek to export its strong animal welfare and environmental standards around the world, notably through more open international markets, rather than focusing on defensive, protectionist solutions.
Through this report, the European Parliament explicitly asks the Council and the European Commission to take better account of agricultural interests in international trade negotiations, particularly in discussions with South America, a large livestock farming and grain production region which does not always meet European quality standards.
The EU agricultural sector has a significant added value for the European economy and plays a strategic role in tackling the economic, social and environmental challenges that the EU is facing.
Therefore, external trade policy and agreements with foreign importers must not jeopardise the EU's ability to maintain a strong and vibrant sector.
The Commission must assume a clear position in the World Trade Organisation and carry out specific impact assessments, negotiating with other parties as regards the importation of certain products to the EU market.
We must ensure respect for the principle that third-country production methods for export to the EU must provide European consumers with the same guarantees in terms of health, food safety, animal welfare, sustainable development and minimum social standards as those required of EU producers.
International trade plays a critical role within the EU, particularly with regard to the situation in which European farmers are disadvantaged by imports from third countries and by the failure to apply the principle of reciprocity, which gives foreign farmers undue advantage where they are often not obliged to comply with the same strict and costly regulations that are imposed on European farmers in order to be able to operate within the internal market, particularly from the sanitary and phytosanitary point of view.
I cannot therefore agree with the statement contained in the approved resolution that trade liberalisation will not make it possible for the threat of hunger to be eradicated from the world.
This is not the role of commerce, nor can it be.
I agree with the need for greater consistency between the common agricultural policy and the external trade policy in order to secure the European agricultural model and, as a result, a level playing field for EU producers in the world market.
Agriculture represents a strategic sector for the European Union.
While its impact in terms of employment and GDP may not equal that of other sectors, it assumes greater significance with regard to the characteristics of our respective regions and food traditions, since it ensures that we are self-sufficient in many ingredients that are essential for our farm produce, traditional or otherwise.
Furthermore, this sector plays a fundamental role in safeguarding and protecting the environment and ensuring the sustainable development of our regions.
It is obvious that trade agreements have to be made, particularly in the trade rounds of the World Trade Organisation.
The basic tenet of the approved report seems to go in the right direction.
Indeed, too often, our farmers suffer as a result of unfair competition, and thus as a result of distortions of competition when some third countries are involved.
The Commission must take into account the warnings of Parliament and of farmers, particularly when it comes to negotiations with Mercosur, which risk endangering European livestock farming, as well as fruit and vegetable producers in the outermost regions.
The report on relations between EU agriculture and international trade shows us the disastrous loss of power that European agriculture has suffered, and attempts to alert the European institutions, which are responsible for this failure.
The Member States must have the capacity to help their farmers for the good of everyone.
I voted in favour of the report on EU agriculture and world trade, as it highlights the importance of integrating non-trade concerns into the development of the Doha Agenda, such as social, environmental and human health considerations, as well as those relating to the health and wellbeing of animals, in order to meet the highest environmental and social standards and avoid a loss of competitiveness among EU farmers within the context of world agricultural production.
I believe that these are entirely deserving of protection and support from the Member States and the European institutions.
Despite my position of being favourable in principle to greater openness of markets, I believe that, where the agricultural sector is concerned, there is a need to be particularly strict with regard to reciprocity requirements and the need to ensure food security for European consumers.
The European Union should bear in mind the need to balance conflicting values and, especially during the current economic and financial crisis, take into account the impact of the trade agreements it signs on the lives of European farmers and their holdings.
Despite constant changes to the common agricultural policy (CAP) - seen as a symbol of European integration - the situation in this sector continues to be very precarious, as it is required to comply with exacting environmental protection and product safety standards, exacerbated by the current financial crisis.
However, I hope that the new economic framework for the CAP improves coordination between productivity and the international market.
It points out the negative consequences of the liberalisation of trade, but does not oppose the course being taken by policies that are at the root of the main problems for agriculture in EU countries (and also in developing countries).
It acknowledges that greater liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products, increased by World Trade Organisation (WTO) agreements, has not, to date, enabled the threat of hunger in the world to be held at bay.
However, it does not condemn or oppose this move towards the increased liberalisation and deregulation of world trade that the EU is promoting, whether within the framework of the WTO or within that of innumerable bilateral agreements.
This report calls attention to a number of cases, and does not shy away from the fact that agriculture has been used as a bargaining chip for the promotion of other interests during negotiations conducted at the World Trade Organisation, namely, the interests of large service and international trade corporations and certain leading-edge industries.
I wish to emphasise the major importance of international trade within the EU and to draw everyone's attention to the fact that European farmers are being disadvantaged by imports from third countries; the principle of reciprocity is not being applied, and often imported agricultural products do not comply with the same regulations that are imposed on European farmers, particularly from a sanitary and phytosanitary point of view.
This problem affects not only the health of products, but also their quality.
Hence, there must be consistency between the common agricultural policy and EU external trade policy.
One very important point in the report is that the European Commission often makes concessions in trade matters in order to obtain better access to markets in third countries for industrial products and services.
Although I voted in favour of this resolution, of course, I wanted to use my vote (particularly on certain amendments) to show my commitment to several principles.
Indeed, I wanted to stress the fact that, in the many negotiations on trade agreements currently under way with several of the EU's partners, it is essential to reach balanced agreements which are based on the principle of reciprocity.
In this regard, imported products originating from third countries should respect health and social rules, as well as rules to protect consumers, the environment and animals, which are similar to those that we have in the EU.
This approach is no longer acceptable, and I wanted to use my vote to state once again that European agriculture must not be viewed as a tool to serve EU trade policy.
Finally, the defence of the EU regime for authorising and marketing GMOs is a point to which I attach particular importance.
European agriculture is encountering increasing difficulties when it comes to the export of products to the world market because price levels there are low and production costs in the EU are higher.
That is why I welcome this own-initiative report, which, among other things, provides for compensation for farmers in the event that the further opening up of the internal market to imports leads to a deficit for farmers.
In this context, I support the call for the Commission to carry out an impact assessment on trade agreements and to publish this before entering into negotiations.
I voted in favour of this document because, at a time when the EU is reflecting on the future of its common agricultural policy (CAP), ensuring consistency between agricultural and external trade policy becomes all the more crucial.
Coherence between the CAP and EU external trade policy shall ensure the preservation of the European agricultural model, as well as a level playing field for EU producers in the world market.
There is a global increase in food demand against a background of higher production costs, severe volatility in agricultural markets, less land, less water and reduced energy inputs.
The European agricultural sector has a clear added value and a major role to play in the Europe 2020 strategy towards tackling the socio-economic and environmental challenges that the EU is facing, both internally and as a leading global player.
EU trade policy will play a decisive role, determining whether agriculture will continue to make a full positive contribution to these objectives.
in writing. - (LV) European farmers play an important role in supplying food to more than 500 million people in Europe and in securing food supply in the world as a whole.
I fully support free trade agreements with other countries or groups of countries, but, in concluding such agreements, we must not put our farmers at a competitive disadvantage.
The real losers from this unfair competition will be the people of the European Union, for whom we must ensure daily access to high-value and high quality food at reasonable prices.
Often enough, this is taken to be self-evident, without thinking that it is our farmers who provide this security; farmers, whose incomes are often considerably below the average income in their countries.
Nor do we have to do anything supernatural - we must simply stipulate that agricultural products imported into the European Union should be subject to the same environmental, social, animal welfare and safety standards that European farmers are obliged to observe.
In this report, the European Parliament calls on the Commission to take a more forceful role in representing the interests of the European agricultural and consumer sectors in international trade negotiations.
I welcome the clear demands set down in this report.
The European agricultural sector guarantees many public benefits, including food safety and quality.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of Mr Papastamkos's report on EU agriculture and international trade.
In particular, I wanted to support the desire of the European Parliament to emphasise strongly the dangers that the European Commission's trade strategy presents to agriculture in the European Union.
While several negotiations on trade agreements are in progress between the Union and some of its partners (Mercosur, Canada, Ukraine, and so on), it is up to us to remind the European Commission of the need to establish trade partnerships - with realism but without naivety - which are based on the principles of free trade, of course, but also on the principle of reciprocity - both in relation to respect for health and social rules and in relation to rules for protecting consumers, the environment and animals - and which do not endanger certain European spheres of activity.
I voted in favour of the report by my colleague, Mr Papastamkos, because it presents a very realistic view of trade relations between the European Union and third countries in the agricultural sector.
Our trade balance deficit with the Mercosur countries in this sector is alarming.
The gap between our exports to, and our imports from, these five countries has doubled in less than a decade, and our imports are now worth EUR 19 billion as against only EUR 1 billion worth of exports.
Too often, the European Commission makes unacceptable concessions on agricultural products, endangering the existence of European farms under the pretext that we have to ensure better access to the market in third countries for our industrial products and services.
EU external trade policy should not sacrifice our agricultural sector, which ensures the food security of our fellow citizens, particularly in a context of increased market volatility.
In order to prevent distortions of competition, the Mercosur countries must apply the same standards - in terms of health, food safety, animal welfare and sustainable development - as are required of our farmers who, in addition, face higher social costs.
This report underlines the fact that the EU should contribute to world food security, and I congratulate it on that.
Therefore, and since this report prioritises liberalisation and competition in agricultural markets, I voted against.
I voted in favour of Mr Papastamkos's report, which sends out a strong message concerning the weight that European agriculture must carry in international negotiations.
At a time when Europe needs to strengthen its agricultural production to ensure food security, negotiations on international agreements are often to the detriment of the agricultural sector.
So that we can be aware early on of the consequences of these agreements for European agriculture, we want the European Commission to carry out and publish in-depth impact assessments of trade agreements before entering into negotiations.
Furthermore, the EU's high standards in relation to health, the environment and animal welfare must be applied to products entering European territory.
Border checks carried out by Member States must ensure that European legislation is correctly implemented in this area.
In the context of the EU's future common agricultural policy, we must take into account the balance between internal production and imports.
Our efforts will have to be aimed at greater harmony between market liberalisation and protection for the domestic economic sector.
Food security at Member State level is achieved by maintaining a stable agricultural sector, which is not jeopardised by external trade policy, against the background of increased market volatility.
Small farmers make a significant contribution to food security in the regions where they operate.
I think that trade agreements with third countries on importing agricultural products need to be concluded based on compensation for farmers in the event of possible losses.
At the same time, I support an agricultural policy which is orientated as much as possible to ensuring access for EU agricultural products to third country markets.
According to recent studies, the world's population is growing at a much faster rate than global cereal production.
However, this report endorses the 'active promotion of the European Union's agricultural interests', free trade areas and trade agreements between the EU and Chiquita or Dole.
Even worse, it explicitly threatens Argentina with sanctions for taking decisions that I would recommend for my own country.
Agricultural products are an essential part of international trade and must therefore be treated as such.
The EU is the largest importer of agricultural produce from developing countries, and imports more than the US, Japan, Canada, Australia and New Zealand taken together.
The agricultural sector of the EU plays a special part in the Europe 2020 strategy with regard to the various socio-economic challenges.
The EU's commercial policy has an important and decisive role in ensuring that agriculture continues to deliver a positive contribution to the fulfilment of our objectives.
I agree that commercial policy must not impede the dynamics of the EU's agricultural sector, and for this reason, I voted for this report.
I did not vote in favour of this report on agriculture and international trade since it hinges on the central element of EU trade policy: free trade agreements.
It is true that there are positive points in the report which deserve special treatment, such as the singling out of the outermost regions in order to guarantee their food sovereignty.
Despite that, this report endorses the active promotion of EU agricultural interests without taking into account the imbalances with its trading partners and the commitment to free trade areas without accounting for the harmful impact on the people in those regions.
Despite the fact that food prices have been continually increasing for some time now - and apparently the price of some agricultural products is about to rocket as a result of the capriciousness of the weather, rising fuel prices and agricultural speculation - prices in the shops bear no relation to what small farmers get for their hard work.
Moreover, EU producers can scarcely compete on price in the world market because our social, quality, animal protection and environmental standards are so high - the very standards that we are unable or unwilling to check when importing foods.
I voted against the European Parliament resolution on agriculture and international trade because I believe that it entirely subordinates the Union's trade policy to agricultural policy, when it is well known that only trade policy can guarantee our industry, our services and even our agriculture access to external markets; this access is crucial to economic growth and job creation in the Union.
If, in the future, we continue with the political orientation running through this resolution, it will become practically impossible to conclude trade agreements with countries or regions with significant agricultural sectors, such as Brazil or India, for example.
Common trade policy - which affects the entire Union and all the Member States - cannot be completely at the mercy of the interests of the agricultural sector, which, in fact, affects a limited number of Member States.
I also find it regrettable that this resolution includes accusations against Brazil that are completely unfounded, as has been amply demonstrated from the Brazilian side.
They are two realities which cannot be considered in isolation and to which the European Union must pay particular attention.
We cannot separate the trade discussions from their impact on agricultural production in the Member States.
Therefore, I am in favour of a liberalised market that also takes into account the requirements of the EU's economic and trade partners.
At the same time, however, I believe that agricultural policy should be included in the negotiation of the agreements for monitoring the quality of products exported to or imported by our markets and protecting European producers and our food supplies.
Consequently, I am in favour of the Papastamkos report.
However, an imbalance has developed in some areas of trade due to the distribution of responsibilities between the agricultural and trade committees of this Parliament, which should work in synergy to define a contractual balance applicable to the various commercial treaties within the EU agricultural sector.
I voted in favour of Articles 49, 53 and 54 for the following reasons.
The trade deficit in agricultural products is also growing, and the EU's numerous concessions have not been reciprocated.
In view of the above, it is essential for the EU's agricultural policy and its common trade policy to decide on and agree joint directions for the areas of agriculture, trade and development.
The document we have adopted sends out an important message in defence of the food sector in the EU.
It condemns the European Commission's over-willingness to compromise, and stresses that decisions to open up to new markets must not have a negative impact on EU farmers.
I voted in favour of this resolution on EU agriculture and international trade.
The EU is the largest importer of agricultural goods in the world, but its share of global agricultural exports is declining as a result of the growth of other key agricultural trading partners and world market prices, which are low while the Union has high production costs.
Furthermore, there must be comprehensive support to obtain market access in third countries for EU products.
I believe that the Commission's proposal to grant Pakistan a zero-duty tariff rate quota for exporting to the EU 100 000 tonnes of ethanol per year for a period of three years will not provide direct and immediate assistance and will have a negative impact on the EU renewable energy industry.
The report on agriculture and international trade focuses on the trade agreements between the EU and third countries with regard to agricultural products.
The European Commission, which has been criticised on several occasions with regard to agricultural policy, is condemned by the European Parliament in this report for arriving too often at conclusions that are unsustainable for European agricultural policy.
I voted in favour of the report because I consider the political role of Parliament, which the Commission avoids consulting when trade relations with third countries are being discussed, to be indispensable.
I agree with the request for the Commission to suspend the agreement with Mercosur until a new agreement has been drafted with the countries concerned, in order to guarantee high quality, safe products for European consumers, as well as value for money on foreign markets.
I voted for this report as it clearly defends the interests of European farmers in the context of international trade.
I believe that external trade policy should not damage the EU's ability to maintain a strong agricultural sector and guarantee food security in a context of increased market volatility.
Nevertheless, it is not unusual for the Commission to sacrifice agriculture's interests in order to achieve better access to third countries' markets for industrial products and services.
In addition to the above, it is also important to bear in mind that the European agricultural sector is obliged to meet the highest standards in terms of quality, product hygiene, sustainable production methods, animal and plant health and welfare, traceability, pesticide residue control, veterinary medicine and additives; these aspects increase production costs and should be taken into consideration during multilateral and bilateral negotiations.
The internal EU pressures towards making the CAP market-orientated and greater emphasis on other European policies are equally reflected in the EU's external trade policy aimed at opening up the agricultural market in exchange for improved access for European industrial products and services in third-country markets.
The multifunctional role of the European agricultural sector can serve as a catalyst for new paradigms: food security, safety and quality at an affordable price for EU citizens.
There is a rise in global food demand against a background of higher production costs, worsening volatility in agricultural markets, less land, less water and reduced energy inputs.
Today in plenary, we voted on the agriculture and international trade report.
The report condemns the approach adopted by the Commission in making concessions on agriculture in order to obtain enhanced market access in third countries for industrial products and services.
As in the case of Morocco, there is currently severe competition between the US and the EU as to who will enter first - and under which conditions - into key new markets.
My colleague, José Bové, has been able to clearly question the approach of these bilateral agreements in the case of Morocco in his report in INTA which might lead to a rejection of the agreement as proposed by the Commission.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe it strengthens the position of agricultural policy, a cornerstone of European economic and social cohesion, not least from the point of view of the challenges presented by the Europe 2020 strategy.
Unfortunately, it has happened on very many occasions that trade agreements with a number of third countries have caused major harm to Europe's agricultural sector and its farmers.
In today's vote, we saw support for the report on agriculture and international trade, which dealt, to a large extent, with imports of genetically modified foods and feeds into Europe.
Essentially, this means that the use of GMOs will remain strictly regulated, and this will improve food safety as well as the situation of our farmers.
There was also support for a number of points concerning taxes on imports of various groups of agricultural products, as well as quality requirements on these products.
Another issue of concern is the extensive use of pesticides in Brazil that are banned in Europe and the importation of the resulting products into Europe.
in writing. - I, on behalf of the EPLP, did not support the report on EU agriculture and international trade.
Additionally, the maintenance of protectionist measures within the EU as a means of shielding EU agricultural producers from external competition is out of step with the EPLP's position on CAP reform.
We have always argued for the removal of trade barriers to promote a more efficient and competitive agricultural sector, to deliver a better deal for the consumer, and to present market access opportunities for less economically developed countries.
I voted in favour of paragraphs 53 and 54 of the report on EU agriculture and international trade because I think that it is the duty of Members of the European Parliament to defend European farmers and consumers from the danger that would be presented by massive exports of poor quality agricultural products, particularly products originating from certain Latin American countries.
We must not sacrifice the quality of our agricultural products on the basis of purely commercial considerations.
I welcome the adoption of the report by my fellow Member, Mr Papastamkos, which states the basic criteria which should guide European Union negotiators, and which emphasises that non-commercial aspects should be better integrated into the negotiations.
Likewise, we can no longer accept a situation in which our livestock farmers, who are constrained by very strict environmental and health standards (particularly relating to production hygiene, sustainable production and animal welfare), are sacrificed at the altar of international trade, victims of unfair competition and shameful distortions of competition in relation to third countries who put products onto the European market which do not respect the production conditions imposed by the Union, and who do not face any consequences for doing so.
I also call on the Commission and the European Parliament to show the utmost vigilance when it comes to agreements involving Mercosur in particular, which clearly threaten European livestock farming.
Balance between agricultural, development and common trade policy is crucial for the European Union.
The common agricultural policy is the oldest common policy and must be kept robust.
I would remind you that this sector fulfils many roles and it needs to be related with other social and political objectives, such as the Europe 2020 strategy.
Nevertheless, European agriculture does not exist in isolation from European external relations, specifically as regards international trade and development aid.
I therefore voted against paragraphs 53 and 54 of this report.
I voted for the report on EU agriculture and international trade because some coherence needs to be established between EU policies in the areas of agriculture, trade and development.
EU agriculture has an essential role to play in providing employment and maintaining vitality in rural areas, while the European agri-food model is a strategic component of the European economy.
Global food demand has grown due to the impact of climate change, higher production costs and a reduction in the area of farmland available and in drinking water resources.
I wish to stress the importance of the trade in agricultural products for economic development and eradicating poverty.
This is why the European Parliament should be closely involved in all the negotiations.
We call on agricultural imports to the EU to provide European consumers with the same guarantees in terms of consumer protection, animal welfare, environmental protection and minimum social standards as those provided by European production methods.
This is why I wanted to make clear my desire to see reciprocity of trade, health and social rules applied in our agricultural dealings with third countries, and not to accept additional concessions without guarantees.
If Europe has managed to establish a close link between its agriculture and its territory and to achieve a level of excellence in its agricultural production, it is thanks to the work of farmers.
It is therefore our duty to ensure fair competition in trade relations between the European Union and its partners.
I have voted in favour of the report by Mr Papastamkos on EU agriculture and international trade.
The rapporteur calls on the Commission to represent the EU's agricultural interests more forcefully and proactively.
I am voting for this report because I agree that it is necessary for the Commission to include suitable and specific measures to support farmers' improvements to crop rotation in the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Reducing the protein deficit in the EU should be an essential element of the reform of the CAP in favour of Europe's farmers and internal market.
Such measures are extremely useful given that protein crops currently occupy only 3% of arable land and the fact that the EU imports 40 million tonnes of protein crops, representing 80% of internal consumption.
Protein imports represent the equivalent of 20 million hectares cultivated outside the EU, or more than 10% of the European Union's arable land, but these crops are not subject to the same health and environmental requirements as European crops.
Furthermore, in the context of climate change, protein crops can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the assimilation and fixation of nitrogen in the soil, with the consequent reduction in the use of synthetic nitrogen fertiliser.
These crops also help reduce soil acidification, improve its structure, reduce the use of herbicides and encourage greater biodiversity, assisting pollination.
I voted for this report because I support improving the balance between the production of plant and animal proteins, as well as the use of native protein crops.
As these producers are not always subject to the same environmental, health and GMO regulatory constraints as European producers, the European Union has decided to review its policy regarding proteins and to increase internal production of protein crops.
There has been a decrease in protein crop production in the European Union in the past ten years, while our market has, to a large extent, become dependent on imports.
This situation was caused by previously established international trade agreements, which allowed the EU to protect its cereal production and, in return, allowed duty-free imports of oilseed and protein crops into the EU.
However, within the EU itself, farmers and processing businesses lost interest in this sector.
The number of plant protein research programmes dropped, the development of disease resistant and highly performing varieties stopped and throughout Europe, practical experience in protein crop production is being lost.
Today's situation with constantly fluctuating prices on the markets and the high price of protein feed may have a negative impact on the EU livestock sector, which is largely dependent on imports.
This would facilitate the recovery of this sector, safeguard incomes for farmers, and contribute to sustainable farming in the EU.
The dependence of some European sectors on markets outside the EU is a problem that concerns not only raw materials, but also feed.
Given the decline in production of protein crops in the EU over the last 10 years, we urgently need to combat the risk of dependence on the international markets and the volatility of their prices.
I therefore support the mentioned reforms of the common agricultural policy to introduce new provisions which, in addition to supporting farmers in the improvement of crop rotation systems, promote scientific services and research supporting protein seed crops.
I should also like to mention the importance of a decentralised approach to research programmes that takes into account farmers' local knowledge and sustainable agriculture systems.
I therefore support the Commission's proposal to consider the re-establishment of an agricultural research unit in the General Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development.
At a time when food prices are hitting historic highs, putting food security at risk, the European Union, which is reviewing its common agricultural policy, cannot fail to look at the problem of protein crop production and try to find a solution.
In line with data recently published by the European Commission, production of protein crops in the European Union has been declining enormously, in the region of 30%, revealing that something has gone wrong with the common agricultural policy (CAP).
This situation obliges the EU to import more than 40 million tonnes of protein crops and is a result of longstanding agreements that permit the importing of oilseed and protein crops exempt from customs duties, such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the Blair House Agreement.
The cultivation of protein crops, along with extended rotation of other crops, brings great benefits, not just in environmental terms, but also because it reduces costs by enriching soils in terms of nitrogen.
I am voting for this report, which aims to reduce the protein deficit in the EU, and I hope that its recommendations, such as support for farmers intending to opt for protein crops and practice crop rotation, will be taken into account when the new CAP is being drawn up.
The roots of these imbalances lie in the agricultural and trade policies in force, and no solution will be found without profound changes to both; the report makes no mention of this.
However, at the same time, it opens the door to solutions that we view with concern and cannot accept, such as lifting the zero tolerance for the presence in imported feed of GMOs, which puts the strict application of the precautionary principle at risk.
This report seeks to respond to the problem of the protein deficit in Europe, and to the imbalance between animal and plant protein production.
Unfortunately, a majority of members from three groups, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the European Conservatives and Reformists and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, tabled amendments that go against this clear position adopted by Parliament.
This position does not reflect the wishes of a significant majority of people in Europe, who reject the use of GMOs in agriculture.
I voted in favour of this document, because CAP reform must include adequate and reliable new measures and instruments which support farmers in improving crop rotation systems so as to substantially reduce the current protein deficit and price volatility.
The protein deficit in the EU is gradually increasing, and the EU only grows 30% of protein crops used for animal feed.
Protein crops currently occupy only 3% of the EU's arable land and therefore, the EU is forced to import 70% of these crops for animal feed.
The extended use of protein crops in crop rotation offers major agro-environmental and climate mitigation advantages.
Regarding climate change, leguminous varieties can substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions through assimilation and fixation of nitrogen in the soil and thus reduce the use of nitrogen fertiliser.
Extended crop rotation reduces the need for crop protection intervention and can contribute to the conservation of diversity in wild and cultivated species and varieties.
For this reason, I would like to thank the rapporteur for calling on the Commission to take steps in the medium to long term to address this problem.
However, as long as the European Union is unable to provide sufficiently for itself, we should also consider changes in relation to our import provisions.
As it stands, the policy on high protein crops in Europe works to the disadvantage of farmers and producers, who are forced to pay quotas for them which are dependent on turbulence in the global market.
Area-related and climate conditions have made it possible for the production of high protein plants in the EU to undergo structural changes, and such changes can even be considered advisable in connection with biodiversity and measures to counteract climate change.
Many sectors run the potential risk that, as a result of price volatility on the international market, they will be unable to obtain supplies of protein crops at reasonable prices.
Unfortunately, when trade agreements with other countries were concluded several years ago, unfavourable competitive conditions were created for the cultivation of protein crops in the EU.
However, where CAP reform is concerned, we ought not to forget other matters too.
It is emphasised in this resolution that greater use of protein crops in crop rotation significantly improves the agricultural environment and helps to mitigate climate change.
This problem is clearly outlined in the report on this protein deficit and stringent standards are called for in relation to feedstuffs.
It is important that our enormous dependence on third countries should be reduced as this is responsible for price volatility and a lack of transparency in terms of production conditions.
To state that protein crop production currently occupies only 3% of the EU's arable land and supplies only 30% of the protein crops consumed as animal feed is to describe a reality that most people find very difficult to understand.
The reduction in the supply of protein crops is paradoxical at a time when protein crop production is producing a number of positive effects that are necessary for the agricultural ecosystem, beneficial for the quality of final livestock products and important for keeping market prices in check.
The debate, which has already started in committee, is fundamental in order to redefine the role that protein crop production will play in the context of the future challenges for European agriculture.
I supported this report, which I believe symbolises a new phase that must start now in order to reduce the protein deficit.
Protein crops currently occupy only 3% of the European Union's arable land and supply only 30% of the proteins used for animal feed.
The European Commission should draft a report on the possibilities and options for increasing domestic protein crop production in the EU by means of new policy instruments.
It is also useful to establish a mechanism for monitoring the origin of protein crops imported into the EU.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which draws attention to the EU protein deficit and the need to rebalance that deficit, but I oppose measures that would mean increased subsidies for farmers to ensure EU protein production.
I also consider it important to retain sufficient variety in terms of the selection or range on offer of these products.
As is the case with many reports or proposals negotiated by Parliament, the need for high quality products is also mentioned here.
The production of protein crops in the European Union is experiencing an ever more significant decline, which makes the situation alarming.
The protein deficit causes imbalances not only in agricultural production but also in the research and development of agricultural techniques.
Europe depends largely on imports of protein crops, which are mainly used for animal feed.
In order to combat this phenomenon, we are proposing that the common agricultural policy reform should include the introduction of new provisions to assist farmers in improving crop rotation systems, investment in research on protein crop seeds, and improved training of farmers in crop rotation and mixed farming.
Increasing the protein independence of the Union, promoting shorter supply routes and helping farmers contributing to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are all measures that I support.
However, the pro-GMO lobbies and their representatives have succeeded in converting this report into a plea for allowing contaminated food to enter Europe.
The report also advocates a return to animal meal, with all the risks that it involves.
In its new form, this report does not enable us to do that.
There are scientific studies available demonstrating the environmental benefits of protein crops in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as of biodiversity and soil quality improvements.
It is unacceptable that we import 80% of our requirements.
It is therefore very important that measures be taken to change this situation within the framework of post-2013 common agricultural policy aid.
The Häusling report on the protein deficit in Europe and the search for solutions introduces some positive elements such as aid to farmers that contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gases emissions.
Despite this, I voted against the report as the text clearly argues in favour of genetically modified organisms and totally opens the doors of Europe to contaminated food and animal-based meal on European territory.
in writing. - The report asks the Commission to include in the CAP reform adequate and reliable measures and instruments to support farmers in improving crop rotation.
Protein crops are an important part of the animal feed industry and are therefore a significant economic factor.
However, the cultivation of protein crops is an issue that has generated little positive interest in Europe.
Only 3% of arable land in the EU is used in the production of protein crops.
As studies show, this not only leads to significant economic disadvantage because it results in an 80% import quota, but also brings disadvantages in the area of agriculture.
The research sector is also suffering under the low level of demand for seed for protein producing crops.
I voted against this report because I fear that it may hamper the cultivation of traditional seed.
in writing. - The general thrust of this report advocates that rather than import protein from third countries, we should encourage farmers to produce it here in Europe.
This view ignores the fact that, due to natural constraints, Europe is simply not able to produce the quantities of soya and maize necessary to meet the demand of our farmers at a viable price.
Affordable imports of protein from third countries such as the US are crucial if we wish to ensure food security and create conditions in which farmers can earn a decent living from agriculture.
For these reasons, I voted against the report.
I voted for this report, which highlights a series of significant problems with the way in which European agriculture operates.
I therefore voted against this report.
I believe that this resolution is an important step towards solving this problem.
The growth of protein crops not only mitigates the impact of climate change, but also has a positive effect on farmers' incomes.
Furthermore, it is an important factor strengthening the EU's livestock sector, given the fact that it would reduce the sector's dependence on protein crop imports and would increase competitiveness.
I agree with the proposals to support research into the breeding and supply of protein crop seeds and for a framework for rural development measures which introduce improved, decentralised facilities for the production of animal feed.
I believe that crop rotation must be actively promoted in the EU by giving financial support to farmers and this would reduce the current protein deficit and price volatility.
I voted for the Häusling report because it advocates a supply of proteins for animal feed, which has been contributing for a long time to a lack of competitiveness in European agriculture.
There has been a worrying deficit in the production of protein crops in the European Union over the last 10 years and the situation now is one of considerable decline.
Insufficient soya imports impose an additional cost burden on the EU livestock and feedstuffs sectors and jeopardise the economic viability of domestic meat production.
Protein crops currently occupy only 3% of the European Union's arable land (excluding fruit and vegetables).
More than 40 million tonnes of protein crops, mainly soya beans and corn gluten feed, are imported annually, representing 80% of the EU's protein consumption.
The arable land cultivated outside the EU for protein imports to the EU represents 10% of the EU's arable land, which is 20 million hectares.
Regarding the EU's commitments to contribute actively to global food security and to combat vigorously climate change, the future agriculture and rural development policy must promote more balanced plant and animal protein production so as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the run-off of nutrients into watersheds, as well as motivate consumers, public procurement authorities and catering services to choose a more balanced, environmentally-friendly and diverse range of food in their diet.
The Commission must present legislative initiatives to reduce food waste throughout the food chain, including slaughter offal and swill, which is still not adequately regulated.
The fact is that 80% of our protein crop requirement already has to be imported.
The original intention of the report - the instigation of measures to increase the indigenous production of protein crops so as to combat the decline in protein production in the EU - has been fudged.
Even the rapporteur was forced to vote against his own report.
As a member of the Social Democratic Party of Austria, I, along with my party colleagues in Parliament, favour a policy of zero tolerance for genetically modified organisms.
in writing. - Key points in the report are: to create a framework for the cultivation and use of protein plants in the EU in order to replace the import of protein crops from third countries; to abandon the Blair House Agreement and to improve crop rotation in the framework of CAP reform; to generate a new scientific approach and to improve training and facilities for farmers.
The latest estimates on the protein crops sector reveal a disturbing trend over the last decade of reduced production of protein crops in the European Union.
Each year in Europe, the production of pulses falls by 30% and that of soya beans by 12%, resulting in the need to import 40 million tonnes of plant protein.
The content of this report shows that the European livestock sector, which is vulnerable to price volatility, is too dependent on the ability to access imports of plant proteins.
As well as reducing the European Union's protein deficit, once their products have been harvested, these crops are an excellent additive for the soil, which therefore requires less chemical fertiliser.
The request, which we support, is for the future common agricultural policy to establish measures to overcome the Union's protein deficit by constantly reducing protein imports.
I voted for this report because it highlights the importance of restricting dependency on imported protein, especially as this dependency poses major risks for the European Union's livestock sector.
However, I want to point out that GMOs are not the only solution for decreasing dependency on proteins imported from third countries.
The potential for growing protein crops, such as soya, in the new Member States, Romania and Bulgaria, should not be ignored either.
That is why I voted against the final text.
Asking the Commission at this time to ensure an unimpeded supply of soya to the EU market by finding a technical solution for the presence of small amounts of GMOs in protein crops intended for use as feed is, to all intents and purposes, handing a major victory to the intensive agriculture lobby.
What is crucial is to put in place a mechanism whereby we can monitor the origin of imported protein crops and thereby inspect the sustainability of the agricultural practices applied in the country of origin.
I thank my fellow Member, Mr Häusling, for his important report, even if I am disappointed by the final version, which is why I, like the rapporteur, voted against the report in the end.
The call to relax conditions on unauthorised imports of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) does not resolve the problem of the protein deficit in the European Union and should therefore not have been discussed.
On the other hand, we absolutely must mitigate the considerable decline in protein crop farming in the Union and thus reduce our dependence, which is already alarming, on imports of plant proteins.
I would like to make a clear denunciation of the Blair House agreements, the market-oriented objectives of which have contributed to extreme price volatility.
For the future, in the context of rational and responsible soil management, we need to integrate protein crops into the crop rotation cycle.
I voted in favour of adopting the Häusling report.
It is evident that the matter requires urgent action.
I am thinking here, above all, of making people more aware of the positive impact of protein on human health (the School Fruit Programme is an example of a programme with a similar aim currently being implemented within the European Union), and also of developing an incentive system for farmers cultivating high protein crops.
The current crisis has had devastating effects for women, even though the professional sectors dominated by men have been hit hardest.
I would also stress that there is still an inequality in terms of salary of around 18% between men and women, even though there are more women graduates than men.
It is therefore necessary to protect women and put them in a position where they can lead lives which are qualitatively equal to those of men.
Gender equality is not just a matter of social justice but is one of the preconditions for achieving the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion established in the Europe 2020 strategy.
Mass unemployment, drastic pay cuts and cuts to social benefits, flexible forms of employment, an increase in the retirement age, flexible contracts of employment and the commercialisation of the social services of health, welfare and education are together exacerbating the living conditions of women and of the working and grassroots family as a whole.
Thus, for example, the analysis which says that countries where men and women are treated equally on the labour market have benefited in terms of their socio-economic development seems to me to be fully justified.
In my opinion, the promotion of equality between women and men is an obvious requirement from a social, but also from an economic, point of view.
Equality between men and women constitutes one of the fundamental principles of EU law.
The European Union's objectives consist, firstly, of ensuring equality of opportunities and treatment between the two sexes and, secondly, of combating discrimination on the basis of sex.
Despite all the efforts made as regards equality between men and women, even today, inequalities continue to exist in this area in the European Union.
The employment rate among women (58.6%) continues to be lower than that of men (70.7%), even though the majority of students and university graduates are women.
Only one in every 10 board members in EU businesses is a woman, and only 3% of executive directors are female.
The average disparity between the wages earned by men and those earned by women in the EU continues to be 18%.
The annual report on equality between men and women is an opportunity to highlight the challenges which we face in these times of economic and social crisis.
Since they more often work part-time than men, because they carry out what can be casual work in the tertiary sector, because they have fragmented careers, because, even today, they are less well paid than men for the same kinds of jobs, and because their pensions are lower as a result, we need to make sure that women are constantly the focus of our attention.
The most sensitive issue in this report concerned quotas for women on the boards of large companies, both private and public.
Of course, quotas are not a panacea, and in an ideal society, we would like to do without them.
In order to change people's mentalities, however, there is no doubt that quotas are necessary.
In its annual report for 2010, the European Commission highlighted the challenges facing Europe as a result of the recent economic and financial crisis in terms of equality between men and women.
One important consequence that this crisis has had for women concerns employment: women were affected later than men because more of them worked in sectors that have withstood the effects of the crisis for longer (health, education, etc.).
Now, however, even these sectors are at risk of being affected, bringing with it long-term insecurity for working women compared to men.
Partly for this reason, I believe that equality between men and women in employment should no longer be merely a goal to pursue, but must become a reality.
The commitment of Member States and of the Commission is therefore necessary not only so that the policy of equality between men and women can be maintained but, above all, so that the budget expenditure allocated to them is not revised downwards.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, equality between women and men is one of the fundamental pillars of the development of an efficient social and market economy, as Europe has always loved to call itself.
I am therefore convinced that we must ensure, by all possible means, that women are offered the same treatment and the same professional opportunities as those that are guaranteed to men.
However, I cannot support or vote in favour of the strategy proposed by Mrs Nedelcheva because I believe that starting from the central role of the problems experienced by a single ethnic group, rather than from a systemic analysis of all options, is not a methodological approach which is appropriate and decisive.
I voted in favour of this report and am pleased that the European Parliament has drawn special attention to gender equality issues.
We must recognise that we still have a lot of work to do to improve women's position in the field of gender equality, in the labour market and in politics.
In the European Parliament's report on equality between men and women in the European Union, we therefore established that it is crucial to eliminate the gender pay gap, to stop violence against women and trafficking in women, guarantee maternity leave and create suitable conditions to take advantage of the services of nurseries and childcare centres and reduce female poverty.
An increasing number of MEPs agree with the introduction of a quota system, because if companies themselves fail to introduce changes to improve gender equality in business, there are plans to anchor quotas in legislation.
Following the crisis that we are experiencing, women's conditions of work and access to jobs have become difficult.
I therefore agree with the issue tackled in the European Commission's report on the need for gender equality to be integrated into all policies, as well as into the education of European children from the very beginning.
Violence against women must continue to be combated and prevented through public information campaigns and teaching in schools.
On 8 March, International Women's Day, I would congratulate Mrs Nedelcheva on her report on equality between women and men.
I agree with her assessment that women have been particularly affected by the economic and financial crisis that we are experiencing.
All the indications are that as regards, inter alia, employment, health, education and social support, women will feel the consequences more and for longer than men will.
As regards income, working and recruitment conditions, and access to employment, the situation of women seems to be deteriorating more quickly than that of men.
As such, it is important to create new opportunities and strengthen equality synergies between the genders, which will contribute to stimulating recovery and to economic growth itself.
Indeed, on average, they are paid 18% less than men for equal work in the EU, a figure that rises above 25% in some Member States, and are more likely to be precariously employed and/or employed part-time.
Tackling gender stereotypes is necessary but not enough.
We have to empower more women at all levels of political representation in Europe.
In terms of remuneration, for example, and despite continued legislative efforts on the subject at European level, women still earn 18% less on average than men for the same work in the European Union.
I would also like to emphasise that we had to battle for a long time within this Parliament merely to ensure that such a basic right as access to contraception could be mentioned.
It sets the objective of reducing the pay gap to less than 5% by 2020 and, in particular, calls on the Member States to do all they can to enforce the principle of 'equal pay for equal work', with sanctions for non-compliant States.
Today, 8 March 2011, the centenary of International Women's Day, Parliament had a duty to adopt, by a large majority, this report on equality between women and men in the Union for 2011.
Although the principle of gender equality is enshrined in the Treaty and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, we cannot help but notice that this remains an unrealised objective.
Whether in terms of jobs, where far more women than men carry out casual work, in terms of pay, where women earn, on average, 18% less than men for positions of the same responsibility, or in terms of career prospects, the female gender is still held back by the famous glass ceiling.
The list of grievances is still a long one.
The report voted on today includes specific responses such as the establishment of binding objectives for the Member States, and sanctions for non-compliance, and the introduction of quotas (a necessary evil) to increase our aspirations to equality a little.
In the case of women, this is particularly pertinent in areas such as maternity support, the reconciliation of work and family life'.
I am therefore pleased to discover here, inter alia, concern for protection of maternity rights and for support for older people at home, which are tasks that often fall to women within the family, making it difficult for them to find work.
Nonetheless, although I acknowledge that some of the rapporteur's visions are very insightful, I do not agree with her that gender equality can be achieved using quota systems.
Finally, I am a staunch advocate of the subsidiarity principle and believe that many of the subjects analysed in this report, while important and relevant, must remain under the Member States' jurisdiction.
This report aims to contribute to speeding up the process of creating conditions of equality between men and women in the European Union.
On this day, when we are celebrating the centenary of International Women's Day, I should like to salute all the women who have struggled for acknowledgment of women's rights and for gender equality over the last 100 years.
I would also express my solidarity for all women victims of violence, and for all those who have recently been fighting in the Middle East and North Africa for the self-determination of their peoples.
The consequences are increased poverty amongst women.
The majority of the more than 85 million people living in poverty in the European Union are women.
The poverty rate amongst women has exceeded 18%.
Preventing the taking, under the pretext of the crisis, of measures threatening women's right to equality, and to the necessary economic and social cohesion, is therefore a crucial issue.
It is time to prioritise women and their rights, equality, and economic and social cohesion, so that we can have a better society and so that we can truly respect human rights and consolidate the progress that women have helped to build for our civilisation.
Equality of opportunity and non-discrimination do not mean abolishing and negating the differences and the complementarity between men and women in their natures, their aspirations and their way of seeing the world and life.
It leads to absurdities such as this 'right', in inverted commas, for women to work nights - or to be obliged to do so.
This is absurd, because it threatens the very existence of this advantage for women.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this report, especially since it promotes - in a very determined and concrete way - the fundamental principle of equality between women and men.
It is disappointing that, despite numerous efforts and studies on the subject, some national law makers are still neglecting the destructive effects of discrimination, further aggravating gender inequalities and endangering fulfilment of the Lisbon strategy goals.
In light of the persisting gap between men and women in terms of employment rates, working hours, wages and access to management positions, I call on Member States to better implement anti-discrimination and anti-harassment practices.
It is necessary to engage stakeholders at grass-roots level, through information campaigns, use of NGOs, and also by more formal instruments such as including special provisions in collective agreements and national legislation relating to gender equality.
I am in agreement with the various issues highlighted in the report, such as strengthening inclusion measures in favour of women and ensuring their presence in positions of responsibility, promoting employment and fair distribution of income, creating higher quality jobs, ensuring access to high quality public services and improving social welfare.
Other measures are still necessary, such as a better distribution of family responsibilities and better protection of women from domestic violence.
For this reason, therefore, I decided to vote in favour of establishing quotas, even though I was, in principle, opposed to the idea, and establishing policies of positive discrimination in the economic and political spheres.
Each year, International Women's Day provides an opportunity to take stock of women's rights and gender equality in the European Union.
There have certainly been significant improvements, but it is clear that we have not yet fully achieved this equality, neither in reality nor in people's minds.
I think that another fundamental point in this report can be found in paragraph 66, which affirms the right of women to easy access to contraception and abortion.
Let us remember that in 11 countries of the Union, abortion is still not fully authorised.
Women have been severely affected by the crisis, particularly in terms of their working conditions, their access to employment, their place in society as a whole and gender equality.
Whether on the boards of publicly listed companies or in the world of politics, women must be able to attain posts in line with their skills.
The promotion of equality also involves combating violence against women.
As we mark the 100th anniversary of International Women's Day, I would like to convey my greetings to all women.
in writing. - I voted against the call to easy access to abortion in paragraph 66 of the original text.
Whereas I recognise the individual's right to decide on his/her own body, I underline that any decision to undergo abortion also means deciding to end the life of another human being.
Furthermore, if this decision is made, it should always include the consent of both parents (except in cases of serious illness, rape).
In today's European society where people are better informed and have easier access to healthcare than ever before, we must support responsible behaviour, which includes taking responsibility for one's actions.
The EU should not support such behaviour, but should give subsidiarity to the Member States.
I agree with the conclusions of the report, both as an MEP and as a doctor.
The damage caused by the anti-social policy of most EU Member State governments will sooner or later become apparent in the health of many socially weaker groups of citizens, and particularly women.
I was led to support the previously mentioned report by concerns for the healthy development of Europe's current and future population, which is directly proportionate to the quality of health and full social equality of women.
To underrate this issue is to ignore the rights of 50% of EU citizens.
Ultimately, this may mean alienating many citizens from the EU, despite the fact that the Europe 2020 strategy includes a solution to these problems.
As long as poverty and social exclusion apply to almost one in six citizens, as statistical investigations in the EU show, it is up to us, as MEPs, not only to challenge the Commission and the Member States, but also to mount effective pressure for the implementation of the specific measures adopted in the fight against poverty and against anti-social cost-cutting measures, and to limit further decline in the social area, particularly with respect to women.
The financial crisis that we are currently experiencing is having disastrous repercussions on the rate of unemployment and the living conditions of our fellow citizens in general, and women in particular.
Just think about their working conditions, their access to employment or their position in our society.
This ideal of equality should be achieved by means of concrete, lasting measures notably concerning education.
The promotion of equality also involves combating violence against women.
I voted for this report because it stresses the need to prioritise the elimination of wage disparities between men and women, and advocates the 'equal pay for equal jobs' principle.
I also voted for it because it calls on the Commission, the Council and the Member States to prioritise support for binding measures instead of non-binding strategies on gender equality, and to pay particular attention to groups of vulnerable women: disabled women, older women, migrants, lesbians, bisexuals and transsexuals, women belonging to ethnic minorities, and women with little or no education and dependents in their care, disabled women and single mothers.
It also acknowledges the need for women to have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, specifically through easier access to contraception and abortion.
Unfortunately, this report is necessary this 8 March 2011.
Mrs Nedelcheva has chosen to follow the path of the proposal and not merely that of claims and of victimisation.
The starting point for targeted action is an analysis of economic data from the female labour market, all of it negative.
I do not accept that the freedom of women and the attainment of social progress is achieved through abortion.
The Nedelcheva report makes a painful observation about the Union's progress in relation to equality between women and men.
It is sad that we have had to wait until 8 March for it to be remembered that 50% of European citizens are female, and that their right to equality is being flouted throughout Europe.
I welcome this report on account of its stated desire to introduce binding measures to enforce equal rights.
Nevertheless, I regret the fact that it boasts about the Europe 2020 strategy and retirement at 64, and that it states that 'the family is a cornerstone of our society'.
The cornerstone of our society is citizenship and the law.
Today, Tuesday 8 March 2011, I voted in favour of the Nedelcheva report regarding equality between men and women in the European Union.
For this reason, the report calls on the Member States to establish mechanisms to combat this inequality.
Unfortunately, even today, numerous inequalities persist between women and men.
Furthermore, the financial, economic and social crisis that we are experiencing has severely affected women with regard to their working conditions, access to jobs, their place in society and pay.
Equality between men and women in employment really must become a reality.
Equality between men and women must also be included in all policies in the form of specific and sustainable measures, particularly in the areas of education, training and vocational guidance.
Women must also play an important role in decision-making environments, whether on boards of directors or in political functions.
Finally, I cannot avoid mentioning the terrible scourge of physical, psychological and sexual violence against women.
On this day, the centenary of International Women's Day, and on the occasion of the vote on this report on equality between women and men, I ask myself what kind of society could deprive itself of 50% of its intelligence and 50% of its energy.
And yet that is the world in which we live, but we do not want it to be that way any more.
The battle that we must fight is not a battle of the Right or the Left, but a collective battle in which everyone, women and men, must work together.
I voted in favour of the articles referring to women's rights with regard to reproductive health and the freedom of abortion.
As an MEP from a country where pregnancy terminations were banned for more than 25 years, I am fully aware of how important this right is and of the serious consequences of casting any doubt on it.
An important step in this direction would be to introduce family tax splitting in all Member States so that the establishment of a family does not become a poverty trap.
This report does not deal with any of these issues, which is why I have voted against it.
The annual report on equality between women and men for 2010 underlines the need for a European commitment to ensure gender equality at a time of economic crisis which threatens to undermine the efforts made so far to support women's rights.
Therefore, the report from Mrs Nedelcheva focuses on the points where work can be done to prevent discrimination: ensuring financial and economic justice for all citizens, hence, with reference to remuneration, incomes and pensions; working for an increase in women's quotas for better representation and to secure personal rights.
However, I believe that in so doing, one must respect the principle of subsidiarity and some of the typical national characteristics which I believe should be defended and protected.
The current situation of generalised crisis that we are experiencing affects the majority of Europeans, but women most seriously.
That said, and despite agreeing with many of this report's statements, I abstained from the final vote because I do not accept generalised free access to abortion, or the assumption that abortion is a method of contraception, which it clearly is not.
I voted in favour of this report because it stresses the need to prioritise the elimination of wage disparities between men and women, and advocates the principle of equal pay for equal work.
It also calls on the Commission, the Council and the Member States to prioritise binding measures instead of non-binding strategies on gender equality, and to pay particular attention to vulnerable groups of women: disabled women, older women, migrants, lesbians, bisexuals and transsexuals, women belonging to ethnic minorities, and women with little or no education and with dependents in their care, disabled women and single mothers.
It also acknowledges the need for women to have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, specifically through easier access to contraception and abortion.
This is, unfortunately, a report that is needed on 8 March 2011.
The draft report and the final result were OK from our point of view.
Positive because adopted: reduce the gender pay gap to 0.5% by 2020; Member States to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work properly (para. 27); application of sanctions for non-compliant Member States (para. 27, originally Greens/EFA amendment in FEMM); binding targets to ensure equal representation of women and men (para. 53); quota to ensure parity on the management boards of companies, with Spain and France as an example (para. 53); binding targets to guarantee parity between men and women in positions of responsibility in companies, public administrations and political bodies (para. 56); health and reproductive rights, easy access to contraception and access to abortion (para. 67).
Despite being based on assertions which are worthy of endorsement, this report also tends towards a desire to recognise specific categories of citizens, in this case Roma women, who are considered particularly disadvantaged because of discrimination.
We are opposed to transforming the legitimate demands of women for attention and recognition at work in terms of equal participation in the labour market, wages and access to positions of responsibility, into racial discrimination.
We do not accept that Member States should pay particular attention to women in the European strategy on Roma inclusion: first, because a measure which deals with equality between women and men has nothing to do with the Roma; and second, because, in our view, if we are talking about people who suffer from discrimination, then it is those citizens who suffer from the often illegal presence of Roma people.
Accordingly, and also given the demand to facilitate abortion and the imposition of quotas for women, we are voting against the report.
In relation to paragraph 66: in my opinion, the expression 'easy access' goes too far.
When voting today, I endorsed many key provisions in the report on equality between women and men in the European Union - 2010.
I would like to draw particular attention to the issue of parity in business.
I agree with the conclusions set out by the rapporteur, who believes that measures in the fight against this problem should be stepped up at European level, for example, by creating appropriate strategies and funding instruments.
I believe that the solutions proposed in relation to education and communication are particularly valuable, as are those which aim to eliminate pay differences and ensure access to managerial positions.
However, the main initiative in this area continues to lie with the Member States.
The role of the European Parliament, as the representative of the EU's citizens, is to exert pressure both on the governments and on the European Commission and the EU Council, so that consistent and effective measures are taken in the framework of dialogue with organisations involved in the fight for gender equality.
In my opinion, impetus from the EU would be particularly valuable for my country.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which aims to tackle gender inequality within Member States.
It is quite clear that there are still considerable disparities between men and women in Europe.
It is necessary to call for binding objectives to be set in order to ensure equal representation of men and women in political positions of responsibility, and also within companies.
In today's vote on equality between women and men in the European Union in 2010, I voted against, and today is International Women's Day of all days!
Several of my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and in other groups also voted against the own-initiative report - each having his or her own reasons.
As if women are not capable of being judged on their own merit, just like men.
Although 59% of graduates in the EU are women, this proportion is not reflected in political or economic life.
The representation rates for women are important because this helps encourage women to plan for a career in politics and to apply for a position with political, administrative or financial responsibilities.
There is a 17% gender pay gap in the EU and there are not sufficient childcare facilities available for children under the age of 3.
I call for measures to be adopted at both national and EU level to promote entrepreneurship among women and also to facilitate access to public and private funding.
I voted against the report because it once again seeks to introduce abortion by the back door.
I have voted in favour of the report by Mrs Nedelcheva on equality between women and men in the European Union.
However, permanent public discussion about the number of women in business, the continuing major difference in salary levels and the numerous disadvantages suffered by women in the workplace show clearly that we still have a long way to go until the sexes are equal.
The Member States are called on to see the crisis as an opportunity to view their policies from a different perspective and to intensify their efforts in this important area.
That being said, we were unable to vote in favour of this report for several specific reasons.
I am voting for this report, which stresses the grave situation of 17% of Europe's female population living in poverty, especially mothers and older women.
It also stresses that in 16 Member States, women are even more exposed to extreme poverty, and to the fact that their contribution to the economy is regularly underestimated and poorly paid.
It should be remembered that one of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy is to reduce poverty, and that this can only be achieved through social and employment policies, through reconciliation of family life with work, and through ensuring that all women have the means necessary for a dignified life.
It is not worth repeating that to prevent and reduce the risk of poverty, the equal participation of women and men in the labour market must be guaranteed.
Unfortunately, European women are four times more likely than men to work part-time, to have fixed-term contracts, and are often part of the black economy, which is characterised by the absence of employment contracts.
Member States have the responsibility to implement specific programmes to promote the active inclusion or reintegration of women into the labour market and specific opportunities for lifelong learning aimed at providing the required skills and qualifications.
In this respect, I am pleased, as our rapporteur is, that a European micro-financing instrument has been created.
Its aim is to make micro-financing more easily accessible and available to those women who are finding it difficult to enter the labour market or who wish to become self-employed or set up their own small business.
Historically, it is women who are most at risk of poverty - especially single mothers and women over 65 years of age.
In the EU, older women are most at risk - a 22% poverty rate for them compared with 16% for men - because of difficulties they encounter in accessing social security and the pension system.
I voted in favour of this report.
The rapporteur is correct in saying that the poverty of women is hidden because women comprise two thirds of the 'inactive' population.
I agree that the EU's 2020 strategy must improve equal representation and participation in the labour market, and fully support reforms of labour and social policies to ensure economic and social equality for women.
Poverty in the EU remains a huge problem and combating poverty is one of the Commission's five measurable targets proposed for the Europe 2020 strategy.
The integrated guidelines of the Europe 2020 strategy (promoting social inclusion and combating poverty) are aimed at protecting people from the risk of poverty, and this particularly affects women, one-parent families and elderly people who face a higher risk of poverty than the general population.
Social security and employment policies play a very important role in reducing the poverty people endure.
The Member States and the European Commission must agree on more effective measures to guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable groups of society to a proper education with vocational training and university studies, which would allow them to integrate better into the active labour market and halt the risk of poverty.
This report proposes several measures for combating poverty among women in the European Union.
I support many of them, such as encouraging the introduction of flexible working hours for women or narrowing the gender pay gap for the same work carried out.
Women are in a difficult situation.
Women are very often victims of discrimination in the workplace or of violence, major problems which are still widespread across the EU.
The reality is really awful, especially in rural areas and for Roma women.
In these circumstances, the Structural Funds must be used to set up programmes which will improve women's chances of entering the labour market.
The greater risk of poverty affecting women is, in part, due to the disparities in wages between women and men.
This pay gap continues to be around 18% in the European Union, which has repercussions on income throughout life, on social protection and on pensions.
This report, which deserved my support, calls on the Member States to take into account the gender dimension in their plans for recovery from the recession by promoting and boosting the employment of women, the targeted inclusion in the labour market of flexible hours, wage equality, and the review of tax and pension systems.
The recent economic and financial crisis has resulted in a series of negative consequences that have affected the standard of living and the working lives of citizens and of women in particular.
The situation of women emerges clearly from the statistics: nearly 17% of European women live in poverty.
The year 2010 has been proclaimed the 'European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion' so I believe that the activities undertaken during this year should also take into account the risk of social exclusion experienced by women compared with men.
I also believe that the promotion of a work-life balance, to allow women who wish to pursue their careers or to work full-time, should be a key element in combating women's poverty and in reducing the risks to which women are exposed.
The Structural Funds and, in particular, the European Social Fund, are key instruments in helping Member States combat poverty and social exclusion.
I do not intend to vote in favour of this report, not because of its objectives, but because of the methods described by my fellow Member.
Although the economic and financial crisis has had a significant impact on the level of unemployment of both sexes, this crisis has affected women worst.
Female poverty that has become particularly widespread during the recession, especially poverty among single mothers, has a direct impact on child poverty, because now, around 20 million children in Europe live in poverty.
Unless specific measures are adopted to help reduce female poverty, it will be impossible to reduce child poverty.
I would like to stress that we must take the gender dimension into account in both European and national legislation.
The European Union Member States should develop special programmes for the inclusion of women and to aid their return to the labour market.
Furthermore, maternity leave must be guaranteed for all women.
I voted in favour of this report, which was approved in this House on the day when we celebrate the centenary of the day dedicated to women.
At the same time, women's contribution to the development of the family, society and the economy are regularly undervalued and underpaid.
In particular, I agree with the request made by the rapporteur, Mrs Nedelcheva, for a work-life balance or for further measures to be taken to support single mothers.
The ECR Group, however, believes that these are policy areas which should be addressed at national level, not EU level.
We have therefore decided to abstain on the final vote on this report and have voted in favour of specific paragraphs which we feel are important, for example, paragraphs 34, 58, 60, 65 and 69.
The economic and financial crisis has affected the entire population.
However, some of its toughest effects have been felt by elderly women, women in rural areas and single mothers.
The European Union and Member States must consider these factors and help improve the social conditions of these vulnerable groups.
In this respect, the target of reducing unfair gender pay gaps by 1% every year is justified and must be implemented effectively using a variety of instruments at national and EU level.
One of the five major objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy is combating poverty and, as such, it was necessary to analyse poverty amongst women in the EU.
The Union and the Member States urgently need, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle, to find ways of combating poverty in general, and that of women in particular.
Efforts need to be made with a view to labour and social protection policies based on gender equality, and with a view to efforts to reconciling family life with work.
In 2008, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, aware of the need to raise awareness amongst the public and the Member States of the problem of combating poverty, adopted a decision considering 2010 the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
The European institutions and the Member States are obliged to fight to improve women's living conditions, and to raise awareness in companies so that women are offered better opportunities, as they are a fundamental element of the labour market.
Situations of loss of income are on the increase and women are getting poorer.
The impact of austerity measures in some countries, such as Portugal, Greece and Ireland, is having repercussions on the lives of women as workers, citizens and mothers.
I think that debate, discussion and finding common solutions to the problems of the world of women is always worthwhile.
However, the report by my fellow Member, Mrs Plumb of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, is a constant reference to the Roma community.
I have therefore voted against the report.
Almost 17% of European women are classed as living in poverty; considering the indicators relating to the labour market and social protection, the structural causes of poverty have a disproportionate effect on women.
Female poverty that has become particularly widespread during the recession, especially poverty among single mothers, has a direct impact on child poverty, because now, around 20 million children live in poverty in Europe.
Such situations occur even in our democratic European Union, which upholds human rights.
Women earn less than men doing the same jobs and, in addition, they are more likely to be molested.
They are more likely to be the ones who look after children and, as a result, do not have their own separate source of income or money which they could use for their own development or for a treat in reward for a hard day.
The people who are bringing up future generations and educating the young people who, in the future, will govern us, provide us with medical treatment, build our bridges and look after us in hospital are not fairly paid.
Their work is hard, and they do not always have the opportunity to take a holiday, for example.
The terrifying spectre of the demographic crisis should mobilise us to take measures without delay in order to improve the situation of women on our continent.
On such an important day that reminds us how significant the role of women is in modern society, supporting this report can be nothing less than our moral duty to the thousands of women who live in poverty.
Poverty line, insecurity, inadequate pay, sexual discrimination in the workplace: these are, unfortunately, recurrent expressions which, not only today but every day, we would prefer not to hear and see associated with women.
In all professional fields, in whatever economic activity, one comes across developments that continue to marginalise women through low salaries, social exclusion and a marked difficulty in accessing a normal social life.
Elderly women, women with disabled children, disabled women, women who cannot find work: they have my support and that of my fellow Members who voted for this report, so that in future, we will not see the expression 'feminisation of poverty' continue to crop up in the media and in European statistics.
I therefore voted in favour of adopting the document.
The issues raised in the report include not only the feminisation of poverty, combining family life and a career, the fight against poverty among elderly women and the impact of violence on the situation of women, but also, and I regard this as extremely important, the use of funding guarantees, employment policies and social protection as ways of fighting poverty.
The current economic, financial and social crisis that affects the European Union, as well as the rest of the world, is generating a series of specific negative effects, directly influencing women's living and working conditions, and their place in society in general.
This context projected to the top of the European Parliament's agenda the necessity of a gender approach to poverty, in the report on the face of female poverty.
At global level, women are poor by comparison with men.
This is also the reality in each and every EU Member State, although one can identify specific differences depending on the country.
At the same time, one can say that women's contribution to the development of family, society and economy is regularly underestimated and underpaid.
The current financial crisis produces specific negative consequences that directly affect the lives of women, their work and their place in society.
Today, nearly 17% of European women live in poverty.
The promotion of a work-life balance, to help women who wish to pursue their own careers or to work full-time, is one of the fundamental factors in reducing female poverty and the risks they face.
Women are traditionally at a higher risk of poverty, especially single mothers and women over the age of 65.
I voted in favour of this report.
All indicators show that, at global level, women are poorer than men on average.
In times of economic recession, people who are at risk of falling into poverty become more vulnerable, and the majority of these are women.
The report acknowledges that the austerity measures being applied throughout the EU will have particularly devastating effects on women, particularly those already facing numerous disadvantages.
The pensions of a considerable proportion of European women aged over 65 are a pittance.
Poverty among women is not just the result of the recent economic crisis, but is also the consequence of other factors resulting from discriminatory gender stereotypes, from the pay gap between men and women, and from barriers to proper reconciliation between family and work life, which is particularly serious in the case of single-parent families.
I voted for this report because I find it very difficult to accept that 17% of women still live below the poverty line in Europe.
The unprecedented economic crisis that has just hit the European Union has only served to make this sad situation worse.
Time has come, therefore, to underline the importance of this problem and to adopt a package of measures to combat this scourge.
The European Union and its Member States must put a stop to the poverty and social exclusion of women in Europe, in particular, by ensuring they have access to quality education and jobs, by helping them find a balance between their family life and work life, and by helping to combat the violence to which they, sadly, all too often, fall victim.
I therefore support this own-initiative report, which highlights one of the failures of our modern democracies: discrimination against women.
Actions aimed at making women fully active also produce a reduction in overall poverty.
In Europe, more than 17% of the female population lives in poverty.
They are located conveniently within the EU 2020 strategy, which defines poverty as one of its five measurable objectives.
Starting from the three dimensions of poverty - gender, generational and geographical - the report by Mrs Plumb reveals its extraordinary solidity and especially its innovativeness in planning a process that will anticipate the adoption of austerity measures to combat the effects of the crisis.
The positive nature of the proposal cannot leave the Commission, the Council or the Member States unmoved, and I expect a well-coordinated response from them.
The crisis situation that we are facing does not help to tackle this serious problem, but we need to make an additional effort in order to solve it.
Therefore, what are needed are labour and social protection policies that are concerned with finding solutions for women to be able to reconcile family life and work.
Dialogue also needs to take place with social partners and civil society in order to achieve a fairer society without differences.
Today, 8 March 2011, is International Women's Day.
Female poverty is not only the result of the recent economic crisis, but also the consequence of a variety of factors such as stereotyping, the gender pay gap, the obstacles created by the failure to reconcile family life and work, the longer life expectancy of women and, more generally, the various forms of gender discrimination, which mostly affect women.
The report urges EU Member States to implement mechanisms to fight poverty, which has a woman's face, and I therefore voted in favour of the text.
Poverty is one area where gaps between men and women remain.
This type of violence is all too often one of the causes of female poverty, after health problems and job loss.
We must maintain, both at European and at national level, a strong commitment to gender equality and to fighting social exclusion by specific and lasting measures supported by adequate financial resources.
The position of women in Europe remains unsatisfactory, and the situation is even deteriorating due to the economic crisis and the restructuring of the public sector, which employed the largest number of women before the crisis.
Within the framework of the EU 2020 strategy, which is principally aimed at reducing poverty by 25%, there should be a greater effort, in my opinion, to look for and develop specific solutions relating to the issue of female poverty.
I therefore support initiatives leading to a reduction in unjustifiable differences and an improvement of the position of women in society, not only within a legislative framework, but also in everyday life.
I would like to highlight the main directions in the fight against poverty among women: combating poverty among women by means of employment policy and social protection; the importance of social dialogue and civil society in combating poverty among women; the importance of financial aid in combating poverty.
It is highly important that on 8 March, Parliament adopted such important resolutions, which give a beam of hope in overcoming injustice!
I voted in favour.
I support the report on the face of female poverty in the European Union as it shows the extent to which women are the first victims of poverty.
This is not a society I would wish to leave to my children and grandchildren.
Perhaps they interrupted their careers to raise children and part-time work has reduced their income over the course of their entire working life.
With the help of the European Social Fund, we need to establish programmes to provide assistance and support.
Local government - either directly or through non-governmental organisations - should take responsibility for these issues and collaborate with regions to better target their quotas from Structural Funds.
I therefore voted against this report.
The European Union needs to take a clear stance and have plans than can be brought in to combat the economic crisis.
In this case, it is a matter of protecting women from the risk of poverty, stopping them from remaining a basically more vulnerable part of society than men, and therefore less able to respond to the employment crisis.
To achieve the goal of the Europe 2020 strategy on the fight against poverty, we need to ensure that women are offered greater availability of resources, improved labour policies, increased funding from the European Social Fund and the possibility of achieving a work-life balance, without having to give up their role as mothers.
As I have already said about other reports voted on today, I do, however, believe that when implementing these recommendations, it is appropriate to respect the principle of subsidiarity and certain typical national characteristics which must be defended and protected.
I voted in favour of the report on female poverty in the EU.
In the present period of economic crisis, the austerity measures being applied are also having an adverse impact on women, putting them at a disadvantage on the labour market.
In Greece, the risk of poverty at work for women is 10%, which is much higher than for men, while in Europe, female poverty is 36%, compared with 11% for men.
The basic objective is to eliminate the pay gap between the two sexes and the equalities caused by it and to take measures to support working single mothers by making working times more flexible.
Enough study has been done and we have data sufficiently rigorous in order to categorically state that, in general terms, poverty affects women first and most severely in all societies, from the richest - and none has yet been able to successfully eliminate poverty within itself - to the poorest, in which poverty expands like a contagious disease that steals life expectancy and hope of life.
It is worth stressing poverty amongst women in that we also have specific general indicators that point to its high impact on a community's social fabric: because of women's fundamental and permanent role in the family, it has been proven that the more that is invested in their education and social promotion, the more the community develops socio-economically.
Combating poverty amongst women is a moral obligation but also a social investment.
For these reasons, I voted for this report on the face of female poverty in the European Union.
But it particularly harms women in the labour market and in their personal lives, since they are more likely to be in insecure jobs, more likely to be made redundant and less likely to have social security.
The austerity measures implemented across the EU have a particularly damaging impact on women, who dominate the public sector both as employees and as beneficiaries of services.
This implies equality between women and men, social justice and protection and combating social exclusion and discrimination.
I strongly encourage establishing as an objective the reduction of the gender pay gap by 1% each year in order to achieve a target of a 10% reduction by 2020.
I would also stress the need for positive action to increase women's representation in political, economic and corporate decision-making bodies.
I voted in favour of this report.
All indicators show that, at global level, women are poorer than men on average.
In times of economic recession, people who are at risk of falling into poverty become even more vulnerable, and the majority of these are women.
The pensions of a considerable proportion of European women aged over 65 are a pittance.
Poverty among women is not just the result of the recent economic crisis, but is also the consequence of other factors resulting from discriminatory gender stereotypes, from the pay gap between men and women, and from barriers to proper reconciliation between family and work life, which is particularly serious in the case of single-parent families.
We supported many paragraphs for which a separate vote was requested by S&amp;D/PPE/ALDE.
Positive because adopted: eliminate gender inequalities in EU 2020 strategy (para. 38); full pay for maternity leave as adopted in Estrela report on 20.10.2010 (para. 39); increase female representation in political, economic and corporate decision-making bodies.
But also negative because gender dimension in recovery plans (para. 15) not adopted.
I endorsed the report on female poverty in the European Union.
Over 84 million EU citizens live in poverty, and women account for over half of this figure.
This is a result both of the economic crisis and of the differences which exist between women's and men's pay, difficulties in reconciling family life with a career, a longer average lifespan and various types of gender-based discrimination, the victims of which are mainly women.
I would stress the need to strengthen legal instruments aimed at eliminating pay differences between women and men.
Marked discrepancies continue to exist in this regard, with men earning 20% to 25% more than women on average, and this results in high levels of poverty among single women, retired women and widows.
It is essential that EU programmes be adopted within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy in the field of lifelong learning and professional training for women, with the aim of increasing employment levels among women.
These programmes should concentrate, to a large extent, on occupations which will be important in the future and eliminate the stereotypes which exist in terms of areas of education dominated by women or men, as well as eliminating traditional models in teaching programmes.
The high percentage of women employed in low paying or part-time jobs means that more women than men live on the verge of poverty.
Research should be stepped up at European level into this phenomenon, since research will make it possible to establish precise and effective methods for combating poverty and social exclusion among women.
The basic method used to help women break out of poverty should be the addition of a corresponding focus to employment policy (flexible employment methods, career guidance, ensuring the provision of training to obtain higher qualifications and measures aimed at women living in rural areas).
Education also plays a very significant role in combating this problem.
The EU's financial potential should be exploited to this end, and particular emphasis should be placed on linking gender issues to plans for exiting the economic crisis and effectively implementing the Europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - I supported this report which recognises that across the EU, women are more impacted by poverty, and that we need to work together to address this.
Combating poverty is one of the objectives proposed by Europe in the 2020 strategy.
In her report on female poverty in the European Union, Mrs Plumb has tried to find effective solutions to improve the position of women in society as a whole, which is why I voted for it.
Equal pay for equal work must be properly implemented in Member States in order to get a fair deal for women.
Equal pensions for women should be guaranteed, and it is for this reason I supported the proposal to ensure the same rights for women in the case of pensions and social security.
Around 17% of all women in the EU are living below the poverty line, and it is essential that social and labour market policies are adapted to guarantee a minimum income and social justice for women.
I agree with calls for the EU to provide more funding through the ESF in order to help combat poverty and social exclusion - it is vital that women are fully integrated into the labour market.
I voted in favour of the report on the face of female poverty in the European Union.
The Commission's Annual Report for 2010 on equality for women and men shows that poverty is one of the areas where gender-specific differences are obvious.
At the same time, the measures supported by governments to combat the crisis are primarily focused on areas of the economy dominated by men.
The two resolutions tabled by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality and debated on the 100th anniversary of International Women's Day indicate that Parliament promotes and supports equal treatment for women and men.
However, apart from dealing with this situation, which can be treated only as the tip of the iceberg, it is necessary to eliminate the gender pay gap, have more women appointed to decision-making posts, and increase the level of employment among women, as they are affected more by unemployment, using dynamic and realistic policies.
Analyses show that we are not just talking about the need for equal treatment for men and women, but that these policies would have a major impact on economies, with a 30% rise in GDP.
The average gender pay gap is still 18% in the EU.
