Selection process of a new Managing Director for the IMF and external representation of the euro (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the selection process of a new Managing Director for the IMF and external representation of the euro.
The Commission welcomes the decision of the Executive Board of the IMF on 20 May this year, which clarifies the selection process for the next Managing Director of the IMF.
It is thus also important that, in the coming years, the IMF should play a key role in terms of global governance and better financial and monetary stability in the world.
Sadly, in this euro crisis, we have learned from experience in a very painful way.
Today, we are discussing the new candidate for the future position of Managing Director of the IMF.
All that paints a much more complex picture than simply deciding whether this person or that person should preside over the future of the IMF.
Finally, the issue of the IMF's place within the United Nations system will also have to be raised, and if the Europeans do put forward a candidate, they must ensure that the mandate that they give to that person is structured in such a way as to enable him or her to push for a form of global governance that rises to the post-crisis challenges that we face.
Now, in these turbulent times, a new competent Managing Director must therefore be appointed for an important global institution such as this and the process must be open.
Article 138 of the Treaty of Lisbon states that the euro's place in the international monetary system must be strengthened.
Finally, Mr Rehn, sometimes we need to make a leap forward.
Given that a role as important as the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund is at stake, I think that, compared to the energy that is at times put into recruiting third-level managers in companies, the way in which this process is being handled shows a lack of professionalism.
That does nothing to enhance the European Union's credibility.
Secondly, I should like to respond to Mrs Swinburne.
Mrs Swinburne, it is all well and good talking about voices singing in harmony, but you know very well that it does not work like that.
Furthermore, if you think, Mr Farage and Mrs Swinburne, that you are going to defend the so-called sovereignty of the United Kingdom - and that applies to all the Member States, be they small States like my own, or large States such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom - if you think that, alone, you will still be able to exert some influence in the world, then I think you are sadly mistaken.
On this issue, Commissioner, I do hold you responsible.
I cannot understand why you are trying to act like a bigger Catholic than the Pope - I am not sure whether I can say that to a Finn but, there, I have said it anyway!
We fully understand that emerging countries - particularly the largest ones - would like more of a say in the IMF's decision making.
It is important that the candidate should be credible, and Christine Lagarde has been acknowledged by the Financial Times as being the best Minister for Finance in the euro area in 2009.
While dealing with global finances at the IMF and using the skills and international experience she gained in the European Union, I know that Christine Lagarde will not lose sight of European interests.
I believe that Mrs Lagarde will be a worthy and able representative of the European Union; she is well qualified for the job thanks to the experience which she acquired during this stormy period of economic crisis and I believe that she will be a worthy representative of the European economy within the framework of global economic governance. (DE) Madam President, I think it is important that Mrs Lagarde is appointed to this leading role.
First, the IMF has played a key role, in cooperation with the European Union, in overcoming the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, for which Dominique Strauss-Kahn made a major contribution as the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund.
I must say that I have seen plenty of concrete improvement in that regard, so that the EU Member States that are represented in the G20, or in the IMF or in the G7, mostly share common goals and are mostly working together as an orchestra and not with different voices.
The rights of the emerging economies mean that it is in the fundamental interest of the European Union, its citizens and its Member States for us to be more united and thus more effective in advancing our causes and our interests on the global scene.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - Whoever the next Managing Director of the IMF is, he or she will have a huge task.
The EU is an economic bloc representing over 450 million people, with a currency that is the world's second international reserve currency.
