The EU strategy for relations with Latin America (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the EU strategy for relations with Latin America.
Madam President, High Representative, I would like to say that the report, as adopted by the committee, on the one hand, acknowledges the efforts made by the Spanish Presidency of the European Union - which I do not see in this Chamber, which surprises me given that we are talking about a Latin American matter - and, on the other hand, welcomes the Commission communication entitled 'The European Union and Latin America: Global Players in Partnership'.
I think it is difficult to find two regions that have more in common in terms of values and interests than Europe and Latin America.
It is also well known, although the figures show a slight decline, that the European Union is the main donor of development aid, the main investor in the region and the second largest trading partner in Latin America, and the largest in Mercosur and Chile.
This summit, Mrs Ashton, comes at a very remarkable time in the calendar for the European Union and Latin America.
I think it illustrates very well the convergence of views between our two institutions on the importance of - and, as he has rightly said, the prospects for - the European Union's partnership in this region.
Today, the EU is Latin America's second-largest trading partner and the biggest investor in the region.
As the official champion of human rights and development aid, it must take up its many challenges in Latin America.
I do not believe in the usefulness of creating more budget headings that cut into the development aid lines for the sake of unclear objectives.
The free trade agreements with Peru and Colombia are a very poor counterexample.
We believe that negotiations should be reopened for the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur, which affects 700 million people and will be the most ambitious bi-regional agreement in the world.
The Spanish Presidency is to be congratulated on the work it has done in this regard.
The strategic partnership between the European Union and Latin America for the period up to 2015 will develop against the backdrop of 'Agenda 2020', the global agreement drafted to combat climate change and promote our aspirations for creating a green, environmentally friendly economy.
With regard to Mr Salafranca's valuable report on the EU strategy for relations with Latin America, I would like to request that the Council and the Commission, who are both now represented in the person of Baroness Ashton, take urgent action on three issues.
Recently, the Stephen Roth Institute published a report which highlights several somewhat unpleasant aspects of this issue.
Europe cannot turn away from relations with a unit which, as Recital J of the report recalls, consists of 600 million people, accounts for 10% of world GDP and to which we are connected by special historical ties, especially with regard to the Latin countries of Spain, Portugal and Italy, many of whose citizens went to live in Argentina, and even France, which still has a presence in Guyana.
I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there are millions of reasons why we should consider Latin America to be a very important continent for Europe: there are millions of Europeans living in Latin America, and there are millions of Latin Americans who have come to our countries, to Europe, and have found refuge and asylum in France, Germany, Sweden and Spain from the suffering of their people.
Ladies and gentlemen, Latin America is very important for the European Union, which is why I am very pleased that in the next few months, perhaps largely as a result of the work done by Mrs Ashton and also the Spanish Presidency, it might be possible to conclude four major and very important agreements, with Colombia, Peru, Mercosur and Central America.
Its countries have weak state machinery, with public services that are still very weak because they have very low tax ratios, they have democracies that are still very flawed, and there are problems with human rights.
Let us join together with them so that we can be stronger. (DE) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, Mr Salafranca, as a member of the Euro-Latin American Parliamentary Assembly, I am very pleased about your report, because it is really important for us to continue to strengthen the relationship between the European Union and Latin America.
Latin America has a population of 600 million and almost 600 million people also live here in the European Union.
In March, we discussed here the situation in Cuba.
I would like an answer please. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a biregional strategic partnership has been in place between the European Union and Latin America since 1999.
The countries of Latin America are the only countries which we can say are so closely linked - more than other third countries - to Europe on matters relating to history, education and culture, and I think that particular emphasis should be placed on these sectors.
This agreement should contribute to the improvement of the human rights situation in Central America and it must be a constant incentive to these countries to respect human rights.
The agreement must take sufficient account of the unequal starting points of the two regions and the asymmetry in the agreement is therefore very important.
In brief, this must be a balanced agreement and one that does not just bring benefits to Europe and major companies established in Central America.
To conclude, we have chosen a region-by-region approach and I would stress that we must bring things to a conclusion in that fashion, so that no single country falls behind its neighbours. (GA) Madam President, I welcome this report and I commend the rapporteur on his excellent work.
In view of this I would like to address Mrs Ashton - Commissioner, I have an enormous request, that our experience, the money of European taxpayers and our know-how be directed, above all, to those countries which are on the road of democracy and are building a free-market economy, and not to those countries which are building populist dictatorships. (RO) The strategy for promoting relations with Latin America has proved to be invaluable between the time of its launch and now.
This strategic partnership has added further consistency to relations between our regions and facilitated the funding of projects and programmes in excess of EUR 3 billion during the last 10 years.
Madam President, as a member of EuroLat, I commend the Spanish Presidency and Mr Salafranca for emphasising the importance of our relations with Latin America.
Climate change and global warming should remain a priority on the political agenda between the EU and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean and a commitment to Copenhagen targets should be reinforced.
It also shows that the EU is on the right track in improving its relationships with this continent, which has a larger population than the EU-27.
As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I am keen to emphasise this specific aspect of the economy, and to quote some figures that show that this is a rapidly expanding area of primary interest, accounting for 600 million consumers, and producing essential raw materials.
I therefore call for discussions and cooperation with Latin America on the fight against climate change, so that the Copenhagen objectives can be achieved more quickly.
However, there still remain, as some people perhaps point out, some difficult questions on the issue of Colombia and its human rights record.
I would like to ask the Commissioner and others to reflect on this in any strategy and involvement we have across this continent.
I also sincerely believe that a majority in Parliament is in favour of this agreement.
Closer trade cooperation between Latin America and the European Union would facilitate the implementation of economic and social cohesion policies aimed at promoting economic development and prosperity in both regions.
I hope that we will see a number of satisfactory conclusions pointing in this direction, presented at the summit to be held between the European Union and Mercosur on 17 May.
