Restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (debate) The next item is the report by Jill Evans, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast) - C6-0471/2008 -.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I would first of all like to thank all of my colleagues who have made this first reading agreement possible - in particular, of course, all of the shadow rapporteurs, the Commission and both the Spanish and Belgian Presidencies, as well as the Environment Committee and the group staff and assistants.
To put this debate into its proper context, over 9 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment is sold every year in the European Union.
The Commission estimates that the current RoHS Directive has led to a reduction of 100 000 tonnes of certain heavy metals and two groups of brominated flame retardants from going into the waste stream and potentially entering the environment.
RoHS has set a global standard, but there was a need for more clarity, so we had a great responsibility with this recast to ensure that a clearer and more ambitious law was adopted.
On correlation tables, my group supports making this obligatory for Member States, but this is a horizontal issue that affects all European legislation and cannot be resolved in this one file.
In summary, we managed to strengthen a rather vague and unambitious proposal into a new RoHS which will deliver a higher level of protection for human health and the environment now and in the near future.
I would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, Jillian Evans, as well as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, for the excellent work carried out on this proposal.
A computer, for example, contains over 60 raw materials.
On average, each EU citizen produces 25 kg of electronic waste every year.
This law therefore also helps make the EU more resource-efficient, in line with our Europe 2020 strategy.
The status quo is insufficient, not only in terms of protection of the environment, but also in terms of creating a level playing field within the EU.
First, on the scope, the Commission interprets that it follows from Article 2(1a) that during the transitional period of eight years, Member States are obliged to allow electrical and electronic equipment that was outside the scope of Directive 2002/95/EC, but which would be covered by the new directive, to continue to be made available on their market.
We will continue to work with the colegislators in an effort to find a horizontal solution to this horizontal institutional issue.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (PL) Madam President, to begin, I would like to offer my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Evans, for her excellent work in preparing the report.
I had been rather surprised that Mrs Damanaki was speaking here on the revision of the hazardous substances directive after also speaking on the fisheries revisions; thank you for stepping into the breach.
Parliament has not got everything that it wanted.
We want to keep cadmium out of the environment, but these panels put 100 000 tonnes of cadmium into the environment.
I am pleased that the Commission has made some concessions with its four statements, so for now, we will take what progress has been made in 2010 and we will meet again in three years' time for the revision.
Personally, I did not think it a good idea to include PVC and nanomaterials in a directive on 'hazardous substances'.
This seems to be the case for enterprises in the renewable energy sector.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, I would like to add my thanks to the rapporteur and her staff.
However, I do want to take this opportunity to mention a couple of areas.
Madam President, I would like to start by expressing my thanks to the rapporteur, who has done a good job and salvaged what was possible in the face of great resistance from the Council and the majority here in Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we opposed the proposal for a directive in committee because the rapporteur had radically changed the Commission's proposal in a restrictive way by expanding its scope; proposing the gradual phase-out of a further 33 substances in Annex III, including brominated and chlorinated flame retardants, as well as PVC and its additives; limiting the scope for exemptions and the time taken to adjust; and introducing restrictive regulations for nanomaterials.
Fortunately, thanks to a series of trialogues in which I participated as shadow rapporteur, a more than satisfactory compromise has been reached, with a commitment to conduct an audit and a possible review within three years.
I think it would have been counterproductive to include renewable energy in this directive.
It would have resulted in a competitive disadvantage and therefore I think it is the right decision.
Then I would like to say something about Annex III: I would have had concerns about including a further 37 substances as priority substances when there is no real justification on health grounds for a future ban on these.
Mrs Evans has a remarkable determination, thanks to which we can today reach a compromise that the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament (the S&amp;D Group) can endorse.
It is comforting to know that we have been able to agree risk-appropriate guidelines in relation to this important topic and, in this regard, I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs.
The RoHS Directive is a key element of this policy.
Indeed, the ability to supply less polluting products is a very important distinguishing factor for our businesses, so much so that it can be classed as a real competitive advantage.
In conclusion, I would take this opportunity to express my desire for greater consistency between the RoHS Directive and the REACH regulation, with any risk of confusion or overlap avoided, because businesses and operators need clear and definite rules. (DE) Madam President, I believe that the fundamental intention of this directive should be endorsed.
Thirdly, I assume that the process launched will be dynamic rather than static in nature, which is why this problem will need to be brought before the European Parliament at regular intervals. (DE) Madam President, Commissioners, although I believe this is just a small step, at least it is a step in the right direction.
However, in the case of PVC in particular, I think it will be necessary to take a very sensitive approach to finding the right compromise between the objective requirements of environmental protection and the interests of the manufacturing sector.
This is very important.
This proposal was a compromise, and we all know that compromises lead to compromises.
We nevertheless take very seriously our obligations to make an impact assessment of all scope changes as compared to the current directive, and we will start working on this as soon as the revised directive enters into force.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 24 November 2010.
It is estimated that such waste will reach 12.3 million tonnes by 2020.
The RoHS Directive and the Council Resolution of 28 January 1988 on a Community action programme to combat environmental pollution by cadmium are principally targeted against the use of cadmium, as Europe is a region particularly at risk from this cumulative carcinogenic poison.
This proposal excludes photovoltaic panels from the scope of the RoHS Directive.
The situation is all the more serious for the fact that if there is an exemption from the RoHS Directive for photovoltaic cells, it will not be possible to review and reassess the decision for a number of years.
