I certainly believe, as we all do, that this is also a way of encouraging Georgia to implement all the necessary reforms that the President, just a few days ago, reminded us were needed in the areas of liberty, security and justice.
However, in conclusion, I should like to remind you, Commissioner, that although we cooperate very well with one another, a few months ago, when we were discussing the readmission agreement with Pakistan, you gave a solemn declaration to the effect that you would commit yourself to producing an evaluation of current readmission agreements and also a regular report to Parliament on these agreements, both those already concluded and those still under negotiation.
author. - Mr President, I must say that I am very happy that this debate on the EU-Russia visa waiver agreement is taking place today in this House, because this issue has been on the joint political agenda between the EU and the Russian Federation for so long now.
Concerning the question to the Commission on the implementation of the EU-Russia visa facilitation agreement that I tabled on behalf of the ALDE Group, I wanted to learn what progress has been made so far and whether we are, at the moment, in a position to expect a breakthrough in tackling technical questions such as the requirement for EU citizens to register with the authorities within three days if staying in a private home in Russia.
I am very grateful to Mrs Griesbeck for having also noted the important step forward in relations between Georgia and the EU that these two agreements represent.
Georgia has already waived the visa requirement for EU citizens, and this agreement will facilitate mobility for Georgian citizens.
The agreement will indeed make it easier, cheaper and quicker for Georgian citizens - more than 60 000 per year - to obtain a Schengen visa.
Concerning the issue raised by Mrs Ojuland of the visa facilitation agreement between the EU and Russia, this has been in force since 1 January 2007.
According to statistics provided by Russia, more than 1.5 million visas were issued to EU citizens in 2008 and the same year, Member State consulates issued 3.5 million visas to Russian citizens.
However, there are some shortcomings, as were referred to.
As regards the specific issue of the implementation of Article 10 of the visa facilitation agreement, which provides for the simplification of the registration procedure, we noted in our evaluation that Russia had adopted some simplification; it is now possible to register by post, for example.
The authorities of these two countries have taken some steps.
We will, of course, continue to report regularly to the European Parliament and to the Council on the results of this monitoring mechanism, for the first time in June 2011.
Mr President, as the permanent rapporteur of the European Parliament for the European Union's cooperation with Georgia, as well as the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Mrs Griesbeck's reports, I would like to say a few words about these two agreements - the agreement on readmission and the agreement on visa facilitation between the European Union and Georgia.
The key thing is to bring them into effect as soon as possible, because in my opinion, it would be wrong if people living in Abkhazia or South Ossetia, regions which have broken away from Georgia and whose residents hold Russian passports, had it easier today in terms of visas than people living in Georgia.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, the EPP Group is in favour of the two proposals for EU-Georgia agreements: the readmission agreement and the visa facilitation agreement.
Visa applications will be processed in 10 days, or in three days for some categories, or less in cases of emergencies.
Visa policy is a very important tool in our hands in that it can help us facilitate contacts between people, and bring the countries concerned closer to the European Union.
I would like to say a few words about visa liberalisation in the countries of the Western Balkans, mainly about the problems that have arisen in connection with Serbia and Macedonia.
We have seen cooperation in these countries in this area.
We have the impression that the problems in Serbia and Macedonia are largely due to human trafficking, and that this definitely affects a smaller number of people, even if it causes serious problems.
I believe, however, that our own responsibility in this is also quite considerable.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, our political group supports the visa facilitation agreement between the EU and Georgia.
When it comes to Russia, too, we should consider in what context we see the visa regime with Russia.
For this reason, it should be stated explicitly that the process of abolishing visas, of opening up on the basis of established conditions, is a very positive one, which makes a positive contribution to our relations with societies in the East.
On behalf of my electors in Latvia, I also support those facilitations connected with travel from Russia to the European Union, for this is very important in circumstances such as a family's ability to come together, as in Latvia there are many mixed families and relatives where some live in one country and some in the other.
Mr President, as we all know, the visa exemption has applied to biometric passport holders from FYROM, Serbia and Montenegro since 19 December 2009.
Nonetheless, concerns are being voiced by Member States of the European Union - and were voiced today by Commissioner Malmström - about the increase in the number of asylum applications by Serbian and FYROM citizens and the possibility of a situation arising which will jeopardise the issuing of visas and the point of the measure.
This was first formulated on the agenda in Thessaloniki in June 2003 and in the spirit of the Greek initiative for Agenda 2014.
This notwithstanding, I must express my concern as to whether the criteria of the road map are being applied by these countries and as to whether immigration flows from these countries to Member States of the European Union are being controlled, especially now that the European family is being shaken by the financial crisis and cannot bear the weight of more immigrants.
It is time that we sent out a clear signal to these two Balkan countries and doing so would be a good thing. (ES) Mr President, the increase in asylum applications on behalf of citizens of Serbia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia requires measures protecting the amendment of Regulation (EC) No 539/2001.
All these measures can help reduce the incidence of these activities. (NL) Mr President, we have a situation where a number of misguided Serbs and Macedonians have applied for asylum in Belgium, Sweden and Germany since the introduction of visa-free travel.
So yes, let us ensure that the inhabitants of the Balkans are better informed, but let us also ensure that members of this House and citizens and ministers of the EU are better informed of what visa-free travel actually entails. (SK) Mr President, we are considering whether the current agreement concluded between Russia and the European Union fulfils our expectations and whether the two-way movement of people matches their interest in travelling.
I have been fully committed to supporting and accelerating the visa liberalisation process for all countries of the Western Balkans and, finally, almost all of them will be able to enjoy the opportunity to visit and study in our countries for three months.
I feel it is important for all the technical conditions to be met before implementing a decision on visa liberalisation, for example, improvements in border management standards, document security or the fight against corruption.
I would like all of you who have spoken with such satisfaction today to try and imagine having to stand for 10 or more hours in a queue, bear humiliation and discomfort and stand in the rain in terrible conditions in order to get a visa.
It is good to see that our friends from Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina are now going to benefit from it, too.
Finally, we must take this opportunity to send a clear message to the countries involved - especially those such as Serbia and Macedonia involved in cases of abuse - that they should clearly tell their citizens what visa liberalisation is all about.
Mrs Malmström has indicated this, and I am convinced that the Hungarian Presidency will be a partner in this matter in the following term, since Hungary, as a neighbour of Serbia, has an important stake in the resolution of these problems for the sake of good neighbourly relations, as well as the community of 300 000 Hungarians living in Serbia.
You can call me a cynic, but students do not always come to study and tourists do not always visit for a limited period.
The idea that people are always truthful about their intentions is not borne out from experience.
It is vital that the Commission and the Commissioner in person cooperate with the authorities in the countries from which problems have emanated; I refer, of course, both to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and to Serbia.
It is precisely because we are moving towards exemptions for other countries - and that, I repeat, is a move in the right direction - that our guide should perhaps be this: closer cooperation with the authorities in these countries, possibly also specific action which can guide us in future, alongside the application of these control agreements. (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the relations between Russia and the EU have always represented a special relationship, considering the respective positions of both parties as a major power.
The European Parliament and the European Union must investigate this matter in any case. (PL) Madam President, at the same time as liberalising the visa regime, we should also send out clear signals regarding our values.
However, it seems to me that, first and foremost, we should liberalise the visa regime for the post-Soviet countries, and only then for Russia.
Here, I agree with those who have said that if we liberalise the visa regime for Russia before doing so for the residents of Ukraine and other post-Soviet countries, it will send out a very bad signal.
I fully agree with you that visa facilitation and visa liberalisation is a very strong tool for increasing people-to-people contact.
We will, of course, examine all these applications on an individual basis, but very many of them are unfounded and this is why we need to address these networks.
On Russia, this has indeed led to a lot of good things, to increased mobility between our countries.
Madam President, I, too, am pleased, just like our Commissioner, at the quality of our debate, which has demonstrated the genuine responsibility of our institutions in general.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 14 December.
Today's debate conveys the message to the countries concerned that the long list of tasks that lies before them as a result of their commitment does not end after being granted visa exemption, and that they still need to provide their citizens with information about what visa-free travel entails in order to prevent abuses of this opportunity.
We have been talking about this for a long time in Europe, because visa policy is particularly important for the EU.
The Member States should apply uniform procedures for issuing visas, because Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina are waiting their turn.
The second issue is the apparent concern regarding the proper implementation of the system for relaxing the EU visa regime in Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro.
Whether we are talking about Serbia, Georgia or Macedonia, we must take a close look at the situation and, if necessary, continue to work on appropriate readmission agreements.
The majority of the inhabitants of this Russian island surrounded by EU Member States receive single entry short-stay Schengen visas.
Undoubtedly, the EU's exemplary assistance in the process of democratic development in the Western Balkans and the fact that it kept open the prospect of accession for the countries of this region contributed to these developments.
Although the Western Balkans are not yet part of the EU, stability in South-East Europe can only be achieved through EU enlargement in the Balkans.
We must assist the region in its journey towards social and economic development through efficient information, even greater solidarity, and additional financial means, so that these citizens can find prosperity in their own home countries.
