Today was the first time post-Lisbon that we have voted on the budget.
You all applauded yourselves and you think you have done a good job but, in fact, while countries across the European Union are having to cut public services and having to cut their public budgets, you wanted to increase yours.
This is not the way to run Europe. (IT) Mr President, at this point, for the sake of fairness, I will give an explanation of vote in favour of the result achieved on the Estrela report.
For the other explanations - there are 61, we still have 59 to go - decide either to give them in writing or give them tomorrow at the end of the vote.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour of the revision to the framework agreement which will govern relations between Parliament and the Commission, in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon, as I believe that this revision creates a relationship of greater transparency and dynamism in the relationship between Parliament and the Commission.
Before the Treaty of Lisbon and in accordance with the legal basis of Article 295 of the Treaty of the Functioning of the European Union, the treaties did not explicitly encourage the EU institutions to conclude interinstitutional treaties.
This text thus represents a compromise between the two parties and ensures a more coherent and sensible implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
In all democratic systems, parliamentary scrutiny of the actions of the executive is a fundamental issue, just as concentrated reciprocal communication between government and citizens' representatives is of great importance.
This interinstitutional agreement between Parliament and the Commission satisfies - as far as is possible in a complex and continually evolving system like the European Union's - some requests legitimately put forward by Parliament regarding the European Commission.
It is also, without doubt, positive that the chance for yet greater involvement of the Commission in Parliament's work is being sought, in particular, in plenary sittings, in order that it may respond to the requests of representatives of citizens of the European Union and answer for the position of the Commission on current political, economic, social and international issues in a timely fashion.
This proposal achieved the first constructive framework agreement.
Thus, this document lays down further guidelines for cooperation between these two institutions.
The European Parliament and the Commission will be able to develop a close dialogue on the Commission's Work Programme and international agreements.
I welcome the fact that closer cooperation between these two institutions will help the Member States to transpose European Union legislation into national law as quickly and effectively as possible.
In fact, the modelling of relations between the Commission and Parliament is - rightly, in my view - derived from this, in the manner that has already been tested and whipped into shape over decades (if not centuries) in each of the Member States.
I welcome the success of the negotiations and the compromises reached in this new framework agreement, the fifth interinstitutional agreement between Parliament and the Commission.
This new agreement undeniably marks an important step forward in terms of relations with the Commission.
Although the agreed compromise falls short of all that Parliament was aiming for, we have an agreement that ensures a coherent and sensible implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Lastly, with regard to the duty to supply information, I would like to emphasise that early cooperation with Parliament in relation to requests for legislative initiatives based on citizens' requests will be crucial to securing the bond between Parliament and the public.
I am therefore voting in favour of the bulk of the proposals in this report.
The draft report on the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission aims to achieve the institutional balance between Parliament and the Commission advocated in the Treaty of Lisbon.
Although the interinstitutional agreements do not alter the enactment of primary law, in this case, they clarify relations between EU institutions.
The final version of the proposal is, according to the rapporteur, a balanced compromise between the views and positions of both institutional parties, whereas the trickiest negotiations were in the EU's international relations.
Parliament acquired new powers from the Treaty of Lisbon for the better and closer monitoring of the transposition of EU legislation into national law, and its application, which is very welcome.
Common European legislation does not mean much if certain Member States fail to implement it at national level.
I agree with the wording of the report, and I will vote in favour of its adoption.
Thus, following the necessary adaptations established by the Treaty of Lisbon, I am pleased to see Parliament's increased powers in its relations with the Commission.
This was therefore one more step towards effectively wielded democratic power, and it will contribute to a Europe that is closer to its citizens.
This report reflects and gives form to the institutional balance established by the Treaty of Lisbon, resulting in a clear and important improvement in relations with the Commission.
The revised draft framework agreement on the relations between Parliament and the Commission is the fifth agreement of its kind to be signed between the two institutions.
In terms of the legislative process and scheduling, it is important to point out the changes relating to the 'Better Regulation' approach and the announcement of a revision of the interinstitutional agreement on this issue, along with the new regulations regarding the impact assessments carried out by the Commission.
Regarding the interinstitutional dimension of the EU's international relations, Parliament's aim is having the right to be informed so that it can give its approval with full knowledge of the facts, and prevent the non-agreement of international agreements when negotiations have already been completed.
This role is crucial for strengthening Parliament's democratic powers, especially during the negotiation of major international conferences such as United Nations conferences on climate change.
Last Wednesday, we voted for the revised framework agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission, a revision that sets, within this agreement, Parliament's new powers resulting from the Treaty of Lisbon.
These new powers of the European Parliament are essential and represent a radical change in the European institutional procedure.
Enhanced parliamentary control over the Commission, Parliament's approval power for international agreements, Parliament's participation in the Commission's working programme, Parliament's participation in electing the President of the European Commission are so many crucial developments in the building of a more democratic European area.
What also appears fundamental to me are the additional guarantees that we are obtaining in terms of obligations to inform Parliament: we will have better access to confidential documents relating to international agreements and negotiations.
The European Parliament must and should be involved in these 'international procedures', before and afterwards.
This agreement therefore lays down a new balance for a more democratic European area and it is a good thing that all this is drawn up in an official agreement.
Passed with a large majority, the revised framework agreement signals indisputable progress in relations between the European Parliament and the Commission.
MEPs are well and truly determined to implement fully the increased powers at their disposal since the Treaty of Lisbon came into force: evidence of this was the rejection in February of the Swift agreement.
The Treaty of Lisbon allows the European Parliament a considerable measure of new powers of codecision.
As a result, there should, not least, be a deepening of democracy in the European Union and improved participation by European citizens.
By codifying and realising these rights, the new framework agreement takes account of these entitlements and the new balance between the Commission and Parliament.
This is very much to be welcomed, as Parliament will now be better able to do justice to its role as the representative of the EU's citizens.
It is now up to us to use these new rights responsibly.
in writing. - This is a great achievement for the Parliament and a positive framework for relations between Parliament and the Commission.
I am also pleased that Parliament will have a strong role in legislative programming and will have frequent opportunities to debate and question these issues with the Commission in plenary and committee.
Relations between Parliament and the Commission have been much altered following the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, with greater powers for Parliament in various matters, particularly those that relate to ordinary legislative procedure and budgetary issues, and a stronger role as regards EU foreign policy.
These changes mean that the European public now has a new role in relation to decision making at EU level.
It is therefore necessary and expedient to review the framework agreement that governs relations between Parliament and the Commission.
For example, the resolution of the European Parliament of 11 March 2004, in which the European Parliament recommends that the Republic of Latvia grants non-citizens the right to vote in local elections and simplifies the naturalisation process for elderly people has hitherto not been implemented.
Perhaps as a result of the signature of the new agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission, this type of inactivity on the part of the Commission will be appropriately judged by the European Parliament, and people who do not do their work properly will, on the next occasion, be excluded from membership of the Commission.
I believe that under this new framework agreement, Parliament is a more active partner in building the European project, as it can fulfil its powers more completely, effectively and responsibly.
Despite the significant measures that Mrs Figueiredo's resolution is proposing on the role of a minimum income in tackling poverty and promoting an inclusive society in Europe, I regret that the majority of the European Parliament was not more ambitious.
This framework directive, proposed by my colleague, Frédéric Daerden, would lay down the principle of a suitable minimum income in Europe, established on the basis of criteria that are common to all Member States and in accordance with national practices for collective negotiation and with national law.
It is our duty to be ambitious for a more social Europe.
Before the Treaty of Lisbon and the new legal basis for Article 295 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, treaties did not specifically encourage European Union institutions to conclude interinstitutional agreements.
I am convinced that this draft strictly reflects the institutional balance established by the Treaty of Lisbon.
I give my consent because this agreement represents a clear and significant improvement in relations with the Commission.
Like all agreements, the final text tends to be a compromise between both parties; this final compromise nevertheless offers a balanced judgment and a reasonable and consistent application of the Treaty of Lisbon.
in writing. - The Rangel report points out the most important achievements for the European Parliament contained in the revised framework agreement with regard to the following: On 'Legislative procedure and planning: mutual cooperation' it includes improving the involvement of Parliament, the review of all pending proposals at the beginning of a new Commission's term of office, taking due account of the views of the Parliament, and the commitment by the Commission to report on the concrete follow-up to any legislative initiative requests pursuant to Article 225 TFEU.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has given both the European Commission and the European Parliament new rights.
The draft of the amended text of the framework agreement is an expression of a more effective implementation of the changes arising from the treaty based on the relations between the two institutions.
Exchanges of information and constructive dialogue will allow us to achieve more effective and transparent results, which is a key issue from the point of view of the EU citizens whose interests we represent.
That is why I regard it as so important that priority is given in the agreement to the participation of members of the Commission in plenary sittings and other meetings related to Parliament's activities.
I am particularly pleased that the Commission has undertaken to cooperate closely with Parliament on motions for legislative initiatives proposed by citizens at an early stage.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Rangel report.
However, I strongly disagree with the rapporteur's assumption that 'the Treaty of Lisbon significantly deepens democracy in the EU, giving to citizens of the Union, mainly through the Parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the Commission'.
This new framework agreement on relations may potentially consolidate the achievements of the Treaty of Lisbon and this could represent a significant breakthrough.
Particularly important are the amendments improving legal procedures and strengthening parliamentary scrutiny.
I agree with all the amendments which contribute to improving information exchange and promoting the effectiveness of relations between the European Parliament and European Commission.
The new framework agreement on relations regulates the 'special partnership' between Parliament and the European Commission.
The European Union must try harder to find common ground with its citizens and prove its importance in their daily lives.
However, there are some issues on which the European Union cannot negotiate - fundamental human rights and freedoms.
Unless this is achieved, the various branches of the European Union institutional system will be unable to fully realise their potential.
To be a cohesive force, the European Union must have credibility.
Now that the revision of the framework agreement on the relations between Parliament and the Commission has been adopted, a subsequent adaptation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the aforementioned framework agreement is a natural step.
I am therefore voting for this report.
I agree with the amendments to Parliament's Rules of Procedure with a view to their being adapted to the revised framework agreement on relations between Parliament and the Commission.
Relations between Parliament and the Commission have been much altered following the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, with greater powers for Parliament in various matters, particularly those that relate to ordinary legislative procedure and budgetary issues, and a stronger role as regards EU foreign policy.
These changes mean that the European public now has a new role in relation to decision making at EU level.
It is therefore necessary and expedient to adapt the Rules of Procedure to the revised framework agreement on relations between Parliament and the Commission.
The adaptation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the revised framework agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission follows on naturally from the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission, allowing the framework agreement to be passed immediately so that it can be put into effect as is required, and as will thus be ensured.
The background and agreement that the two reports share also warrant my approval of the latter.
in writing. - The Rangel report points out the most important achievements for the European Parliament contained in the revised framework agreement with regard to the following: On 'Legislative procedure and planning: mutual cooperation', it includes improving the involvement of Parliament, the review of all pending proposals at the beginning of a new Commission's term of office, taking due account of the views of the Parliament, and the commitment by the Commission to report on the concrete follow-up to any legislative initiative requests pursuant to Article 225 TFEU.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Rangel report.
However, I strongly disagree with the rapporteur's assumption that 'the Treaty of Lisbon deepens significantly democracy in the EU, giving to citizens of the Union, mainly through the Parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the Commission'.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Rangel reports and.
However, I strongly disagree with the rapporteur's assumption that 'the Treaty of Lisbon deepens significantly democracy in the EU, giving to citizens of the Union, mainly through the Parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the Commission'.
in writing. - I abstained in the votes on the Rangel reports and.
Despite supporting many measures mentioned in the reports, such as increased role for the Parliament in the drawing up of the Code of Conduct for Commissioners and the enhanced role of the Parliament in international negotiations, I strongly disagree with the rapporteur's assumption that 'the Treaty of Lisbon significantly deepens democracy in the EU, giving citizens of the Union, mainly through Parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the Commission'.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Rangel reports and.
Mr Rangel is proposing very important amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament.
For example, the recommendations in the European Parliament resolution of 11 March 2004 on the situation of non-citizens in Latvia have still not been implemented.
I hope that the revised Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament will help EU institutions to form a clear picture of the violations of basic human rights taking place in Latvia.
Through this agreement, Parliament has 'improved' and strengthened itself and the democratisation of the European Union has been reinforced.
The adoption of this report is a strong signal of the desire to consolidate the principle of separation of powers.
The framework agreement is of great importance since it defines the relationships between Parliament and the Commission at a time when Parliament has obtained greater powers, particularly in the legislative process, now at the same level as the Council.
In particular, I applaud the fact that the framework agreement clarifies the points relating to the political responsibility of both institutions, the circulation of information, external relations, enlargement and international agreements, the implementation of the budget, the political and legislative programme of the Commission and the European Union's multiannual programme, the legislative competence of the Commission and the exercise of its specific powers, monitoring the implementation of EU law and the participation of the Commission in the work of Parliament.
The Gräßle-Rivellini report increases budgetary and financial responsibility, improves transparency and promotes the EEAS's effectiveness.
The proposed improvements will contribute to creating a culture of financial integrity necessary for promoting confidence in the proper functioning of the EEAS.
Thus, I agree with the rapporteurs in asking that Parliament be able to exercise its discharge rights fully and that the heads of delegations submit their budgetary implementation reports to the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I am voting in favour of the bulk of the measures proposed in this report, which aim to give the European External Action Service (EEAS) a culture of financial integrity necessary for trust in the smooth and unquestionable future functioning of the EEAS.
The principle of geographical balance was introduced so that a suitable and significant presence of nationals from all Member States is guaranteed.
This vote has strengthened Parliament's role: the heads of delegations of the European Union appointed in 'strategically important' regions will indeed be heard by Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Furthermore, Parliament will have a right of scrutiny on how the EEAS's budget is used and its staff will have to follow specific training on budget management.
The European Parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a regulation tabled by Ingeborg Gräßle and Crescenzio Rivellini pertaining to the creation of a general budget of the European Communities for the European External Action Service (EEAS).
France, which can pride itself on having the oldest diplomatic service in the world, will have to yet again hand over diplomatic prerogatives to a European Union whose citizens are totally indifferent to the positions it adopts.
in writing. - Mr President, I have always been opposed to the creation of the EEAS - nothing would have changed my opinion on it.
We are now 34 million over the planned budget due to demands for yet more staff and other start-up costs, and the EEAS isn't even operational!
The proposal for a regulation aims to amend the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the Communities due to the institutionalisation of the European External Action Service (EEAS) resulting from the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Member States.
In this service, our different positions will find one voice - communicating a strong message - and it is important to give it our support.
Only if the EEAS forms part of the Commission can the best possible control be ensured.
The clear distribution of rights and obligations will allow it to work smoothly.
The creation of this new diplomatic service, as provided for by the Treaty of Lisbon, represents a great step for the European Union, which can finally benefit from a single diplomatic body that has the task of facilitating actions aimed at making the European Union's external relations more coherent, safe and efficient.
Lastly, it is important to emphasise that the European External Action Service will manage its own administrative budget and will also be responsible for those parts of the operating budget which fall under its mandate.
I voted against this European Parliament legislative resolution, because creating the service that they want to finance represents another step towards the militarisation of the European Union's foreign policy.
As well as my opposition to this militaristic foreign affairs philosophy, my reason for voting against it is that the most basic principles of transparency and democracy have been absent throughout the process of creating the European External Action Service (EEAS).
The organisation and financing of this service do not include the necessary strict control over staffing and financing by the European Parliament, meaning that the EEAS is worryingly lacking in democracy and transparency.
It is therefore no surprise that the proposed structure for the EEAS relegates the European Parliament to a secondary, irrelevant position in EU foreign policy, which my group and I firmly reject.
I cannot be in favour of the proposed budgets for this type of service with its militaristic tendencies.
In addition to the duplicated structures that will be created by the European External Action Service (EEAS), personnel costs will also rocket in the wasteful and bureaucratic way that is typical of the EU.
Below these directors-general, there is another level containing 224 directors and 235 heads of unit.
We want the EU to have a strong voice in the world, but this surely does not require a bloated administrative apparatus that will cost EU citizens billions as a result of duplicated structures and members of staff who will enjoy a very lucrative source of income.
I therefore voted against this report.
In negotiations with representatives of the European Council and the Commission, Parliament and, in particular, negotiators from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, managed to ensure that the budget for the EU's new diplomatic service would be used more transparently.
I voted for this report because it underlines that when employing citizens of EU Member States, greater geographical coverage would be ensured along with proper and meaningful representation for the citizens of all Member States.
It is important for the European External Action Service due to be launched on 1 December to quickly become effective and to embody, above all, the EU's interests and, where necessary, national interests.
The European External Action Service (EEAS) will manage its own administrative budget and be responsible for it.
Therefore, in order to promote their financial probity, it is important to ensure the smooth interaction of the various services responsible for supervision of financial matters, especially in EU delegations.
By means of strengthening these safeguards, we hope to enhance the confidence of European citizens in European institutions.
in writing. - It has been a bumpy ride, but thanks to Parliament's efforts, the EU's External Action Service now has the potential to be the driving force for a more effective and more legitimate EU foreign policy.
The EP also succeeded in safeguarding the Community method and, thanks to Green pressure, development priorities.
In order to be able to represent the interests of European states on the international stage in a more effective manner, foreign policy actions must be discussed in advance and then communicated to the outside world with one voice.
An attempt is now being made, through the European External Action Service (EEAS), to bring the Union's external policy instruments into a coherent framework - the existing resources are being brought together and complemented by new resources.
In view of the novel nature of this structure, ambitious provisions with regard to transparency and budgetary and financial accountability need to be applied.
I support the provision which stipulates that EU officials and temporary agents who come from Member States and diplomatic services must enjoy the same rights and be eligible to apply for new posts.
I hope that recruitment on the widest possible geographical basis, and by that, I am alluding to the new Member States, will become a reality.
The European External Action Service is an essential instrument for an EU that is more open to the world and able to establish fruitful contacts with many different regions and countries.
In order for this service to function, it is essential to give its officials proper roles and to clarify their status and that of temporary staff from the national diplomatic services who have a role within it.
I hope that the service will operate in tandem with the national diplomatic services and act as a positive factor to enhance their performance.
I hope that the main priorities of European policy will not neglect their external component and that, in the course of their action, the service does not neglect the crucial role of European languages in universal communication, nor the global European languages which are most suitable for establishing direct communication with large parts of the world.
The European External Action Service is now an integral part of the European administration: it is open, efficient and independent, under the terms of Article 298 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In the modification of the Staff Regulations and Conditions of Employment of Other Servants, I would like to highlight the equal status given to EU officials and temporary staff from the diplomatic services of the Member States, in particular, with regard to eligibility to take on all tasks under equal conditions and in promoting equal opportunities for the underrepresented gender.
My intention was to draw attention to the fact that the amendment on geographical representation, which was supported by the AFET and BUDG committees, has not been adopted in the JURI committee.
I wish you, Lady Ashton, and the new EEAS, on which we are pinning great hopes that yet another European dream will come true, every success, and hope that Europe will address the world with a strong, authoritative single voice.
It is understandable that the countries recently admitted lag behind at this stage in terms of level of representation.
However, there must be determination and clearly defined legislative texts to overcome this.
I appreciate the fact that we managed to put some safeguards, in the form of amendments, into the report, which will guarantee that when it comes to filling positions in the European External Action Service, officials from certain Member States will not have an advantage over officials from other states.
European Union foreign policy is, after all, only one specific area, and therefore, in addition to qualifications and broad geographical representation, a principle must apply according to which state officials from all Member States will be appropriately represented among the staff of the European External Action Service.
I therefore think that it is very important that Parliament has proposed to delete provisions that allowed the transfer of officials from the Council or the Commission to the European External Action Service without competition for the vacancy.
The European External Action Service works in collaboration with the diplomatic services of the Member States and is made up of officials from the relevant services of the General Secretariat of the Council and the Commission, as well as staff seconded from the national diplomatic services of the Member States.
I supported this report which was preceded by very serious debates, primarily as regards filling the posts of the European External Action Service.
in writing. - We have adopted with a big majority the compromise package reflecting the Green position, to which our group has substantially contributed.
in writing. - To those of us from the new Member States, the omission of any legally binding commitment to geographic balance in the European External Action Service is a disappointment.
It is true that there have been several political statements promising that the interests of the new Member States will be taken into account.
We have talked a lot about sustainable development in terms of gender and geography and a lot about transparency of recruitment based on pre-defined rules and regulations, but the most important issue is how good and effective the EEAS will be, which is why meritocratic criteria are so important when it comes to staff recruitment.
I would like to stress the requirement, indeed the necessity, of ensuring that employees from the Directorates of the European Commission that are relevant in terms of subject matter, as well as from the Council and Parliament, participate in these services.
The point is not the representation of European institutions, but the fact that these persons should have the right qualifications in various spheres of EU activities, such as complex aspects of energy, trade, agricultural and other issues, not to mention human rights or terrorism.
I think that in the resolution as a whole, there are many more good measures than those which are of less value.
The resolution which has been adopted says that all Member States will be represented in the service.
This creates confidence in the process of establishing the External Action Service.
I am going to be watching the process very carefully.
Only a year ago, introduction of the concept of geographical balance to the debate on the European External Action Service met with huge opposition, even from within the European Parliament.
Today, no one at all is in any doubt that this is a problem and that it has to be solved.
The commitment found in all the most important documents related to the EEAS to take steps to ensure equal representation of all the Member States of the European Union in the new Union diplomatic service is a success.
The review planned for 2013 will allow us to judge if these steps have been taken.
in writing. - The results of the vote on the Rapkay report show that a considerable number of MEPs from new Member States either abstained or voted against it.
My main concern was the lack of ambition of its wording on the principle of geographical balance within the employment policy and staff of the future European External Action Service (EEAS).
This is why most new Member States do not feel reassured by the proper application of the principle of geographical balance in the future EEAS.
It is regrettable that the rapporteur chose such a minimalist line, while the reluctance of the Council to explicitly accept this binding commitment raises even more concern.
I am calling on the Council and the Commission to examine the voting result on this report closely and deliver on their promises of respecting the geographical balance principle while recruiting the future staff of the EEAS.
It will be one of the MEPs' priorities to monitor this process closely in future.
I voted in favour of the Parliament resolution as I agree that it is vital that the EU is able to use all of its external instruments within a coherent structure, and that the provision of budgetary resources in 2010 in order to establish this structure, in its initial phase, is the political purpose of this report.
I voted against the report, which refers to the European External Action Service set up on the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon.
At the same time, it moves Europe away from the independent and pacific role which it should play in settling international problems.
It is becoming necessary to adapt the budgetary instruments to the new reality of the European External Action Service (EEAS).
However, I believe that efforts to ensure adequate funds for its capabilities and efficient and effective operation in line with what was intended, along with the effective monitoring of its costs, are broadly justified.
In the early days of its effective existence, the European institutions and Member States should pay special attention to the EEAS so that they can properly monitor its activities and identify its main problems.
This proposal for an amending budget comes under the realisation of the Treaty of Lisbon in order to facilitate the implementation and operation of the European External Action Service (EEAS).
I therefore support this initiative, and it is important to ensure that it is implemented within the principles of efficient management of European resources, while highlighting a good relationship between cost and benefit, along with the requirements of budgetary restraint, due to the impact of the economic crisis on public finances.
Our vote against this report, which represents another step towards establishing and employing the European External Action Service (EEAS), is a position consistent with our opposition to the creation of this service.
A diplomatic mega-structure that will inevitably subordinate the representatives and interests of the Member States, imposing on them, and here too, the interests of the powers that have been determining the course of the EU.
Following the amendment to the Staff Regulations and an amendment to the Financial Regulation so that the creation of the European External Action Service is encompassed in those documents, it is now necessary to approve a budget for its proper functioning.
I voted against this European Parliament legislative resolution, because creating the service that they want to finance represents another step towards the militarisation of the European Union's foreign policy.
As well as my opposition to this militaristic foreign affairs philosophy, my reason for voting against it is that the most basic principles of transparency and democracy have been absent throughout the process of creating the European External Action Service (EEAS).
The organisation and financing of this service do not include the necessary strict control over staffing and financing by the European Parliament, meaning that the EEAS is worryingly lacking in democracy and transparency.
It is therefore no surprise that the proposed structure for the EEAS relegates the European Parliament to a secondary, irrelevant position in EU foreign policy, which my group and I firmly reject.
I cannot be in favour of the proposed budgets for this type of service with its militaristic tendencies.
Consideration surely does need to be given to the precise form of the European External Action Service (EEAS) that is to be established.
A system in which each of the 50 directors-general would initially have 30 and later a good 80 staff members would mean bloated and expensive administration.
Other factors, such as actually giving proper weight to German as a working language, as laid down in the treaties, have been ignored.
For these reasons, I feel that, in its present form, the funding for the EEAS must be rejected.
I voted in favour of the Parliament resolution as I agree that it is vital that the EU is able to use all of its external instruments within a coherent structure, and that the provision of budgetary resources in 2010 in order to establish this structure, in its initial phase, is the political purpose of this report.
in writing. - The setting up of the European External Action Service (EEAS) necessitates an amendment of the 2010 budget and of the proposed 2011 budget.
A new Section X has to be created in the budget and the 2010 budget has to be modified in order to provide 100 additional posts in the EEAS establishment plan and a financial envelope for financing an additional 70 contract staff.
This proposal is justified by the fact that there is a need for financial assistance for monitoring measures in the banana sector, particularly when we consider that EU financial assistance to ACP banana supplier countries affected by the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) liberalisation in the framework of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) must be ensured if the EU wishes to maintain its influence as a global player.
We should also mention that it makes complete sense to implement this proposal, given that these measures are provided for in point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement on the use of the flexibility instrument.
I voted in favour of the resolution as I agree that EU financial assistance to ACP banana supplier countries affected by the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) liberalisation in the framework of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) should not be questioned, and that the budgetary effort is not held up.
MEPs would like to see the flexibility instrument mobilised to the tune of EUR 74.12 million.
This is a strong signal from Parliament to the Commission and the Council, which only made provision for 18.3 million.
The EUR 190 million in aid promised for the 2010-2013 period shall have to be financed by new funds, which is what Parliament will demand during the new financial perspective.
The Commission is proposing an amendment to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1905/2006 in order to finance Bananas Accompanying Measures (BAM) over the years 2010 to 2013, with an overall budget of EUR 190 million.
The proposed annual breakdown provides an amount of EUR 75 million in 2010.
It is worth noting that the margin available under heading 4 is only EUR 875 530.
The most important part of this financial assistance in 2010 comes from a reallocation within heading 4 of the budget, namely EUR 55.8 million from a total of EUR 75 million, which affects instruments and actions that the EU, and Parliament in particular, deem to be of major interest.
In addition, the need for financial assistance linked to accompanying measures for the bananas sector was not provided for in adopting the multiannual financial framework (MFF) in force.
However, EU financial assistance to ACP banana-supplying countries affected by the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) liberalisation in the framework of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) should not be questioned, and the fiscal effort should not be held up.
I therefore agree with the change to the draft amending budget No 3/2010, as proposed by the rapporteur.
The report aims to establish the measures necessary for financial assistance to countries of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States (ACP) that will be affected by the liberalisation of the banana trade between the EU and 11 Latin American countries, under which the EU is committed to not applying quantitative restrictions or equivalent measures on banana imports to its territory.
When the Geneva Agreement was signed, which provides for this liberalisation, the EU committed to channelling EUR 200 million to ACP countries by way of compensation for the impact that this measure would have on their exports to the EU.
Several ACP countries, as well as several banana producers in those countries, expressed their concern about the agreement's consequences, believing that the sum of EUR 200 million will not offset all its effects.
Now, the report provides for 'an overall budget of EUR 190 million, with a potential supplementary EUR 10 million, if margins allow'.
Furthermore, there were no proper warnings of the impact on the banana-producing countries and regions of the EU, such as the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
For these reasons, we abstained from the vote on the report.
The European Parliament proposal for a resolution on Council's position on Draft amending budget No 3/2010 of the European Union for the financial year 2010, Section III - Commission, allocates new resources to finance the Banana Accompanying Measures for ACP (Africa, Caribbean, Pacific) countries.
The Commission proposal, made in fact without the involvement of any branch of the budget authority, provides for an appropriation of EUR 75 million to be entered into the reserve pending the adoption of the relevant amending regulation.
I am bound to point out that Parliament and Council have failed to reach an agreement over this matter.
The specific case that is being handled in this amending budget proposal is that of the ACP banana-producing countries.
This special aid takes the form of the liberalisation of the banana trade between the EU and 11 Latin American banana-producing countries.
This kind of aid is, in our opinion, better and more effective than direct aid whereby funds are applied without discretion.
By helping the banana sector in these countries, we are helping them develop their economy, create jobs and fight poverty.
The thinking is that, in order to overcome the economic crisis, as much money as possible should be made available to fund the EU's priorities for 2010.
To cushion trade liberalisation at the WTO level and the associated reduction in most favoured nation status tariffs, we are told that EU financial support for ACP countries that supply bananas is now to be maintained.
in writing. - Due to changing trade arrangements, notably the liberalisation of trade within the WTO, the reduction of the preferential margin for ACP banana-exporting countries has had a negative impact.
The European Commission proposes therefore to support the main ACP banana-exporting countries by establishing Banana Accompanying Measures (BAM) with a budget of EUR 190 million over 4 years (2010-2013).
The objective of this assistance is to help ACP banana exporters to launch adjustment programmes.
The Commission and the Council did not integrate it into Heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework (MFF) for 2007-2013, and the Committee on Development considers that the proposal is not compatible with the ceiling for Heading 4 of the MFF and asks the Commission to make substantial amendments or replace it with another text.
For the first time, Parliament is on an equal footing with the Council on these matters.
It is important to fight for our convictions and for a budget that is visionary in a time of crisis.
Parliament's proposal reflects this ambition.
On the other hand, the values proposed by the Council mirror the austerity of budgets adopted at a national level within the EU.
The EU, however, must have the ability to react to policy changes caused by major challenges.
Only by strengthening areas such as science and innovation, and by contributing to economic growth and to more and better jobs, can we make Europe a more attractive place to live and work.
We, the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament, have voted in favour of Amendments 700, 701 and 706 to the budget.
In the vote on the EU's 2011 budget, the Danish Liberal Party voted against a number of amendments relating to the removal of money for export refunds.
Finally, the Danish Liberal Party voted against allocating DKK 300 million to a European dairy fund.
Dairy prices have risen over the last year and, against that background, the Commission has concluded that, under the current rules, it will not be possible for money to be paid out from such a fund.
I voted in favour of the amendment on the budget which places a portion of the 2011 budget for the European Police College (CEPOL) in reserve.
I welcome the vote in plenary which, with 611 votes for, 38 against and 6 abstentions, strengthens Parliament's position on CEPOL.
These requirements are clear: inform Parliament of the results of the OLAF inquiry; publish the list of members of the Governing Board; provide a final external auditor's report on the appropriations used to finance private expenditure; and ensure that changes are made within the Governing Board in order to avoid a repeat of this situation in the future.
A strong and modern Europe needs a future- and growth-oriented budget, while, at the same time, the economic situation demands reflection and restraint.
We have therefore chosen to keep to a budget-restrictive line with the focus on broad investments in research, development and innovation that create growth and jobs in accordance with the Europe 2020 strategy.
Since we want to see a Europe that is sustainable from the point of view of the economy, social matters and the climate, we voted in favour of investments in the environment and in human capital and control of the financial markets, but always within the bounds of existing resources.
We therefore voted against the proposed dairy fund of EUR 300 million and our own proposal to abolish the EU's export subsidies for agricultural products, for example, as well as subsidies for tobacco cultivation.
Since everyone has to do their bit in these difficult economic times, we also voted in favour of reducing the EU's administration costs.
In view of the fragile recovery of the euro area and the weak public finances in many Member States, if the budget is used wisely, it can stimulate economic recovery, but it is necessary to know how to make the most of it.
With regard to citizens, it is worth noting the increase within the Competitiveness for growth and employment heading and the 'Cohesion for growth and employment' heading, although there is a reduction for education and training.
There is a notable increase in the European Social Fund (ESF), but it is regrettable that only 1.4% of the funds are earmarked for the implementation of social policy, in which health sees a reduction of EUR 15.77 million in relation to 2010.
Regarding agriculture, it is worth noting the extreme volatility of the dairy sector, highlighting the need for a permanent approach to address this issue, namely, through a fund for the dairy sector.
The EU budget for 2011 is designed to underpin the profitability of big business and the savage attack by the monopolies and bourgeois governments on workers' labour and social rights.
Its basic approach is, on the one hand, to give out money to capital and, on the other, to slash any - already paltry - spending on workers, small commercial and handicraft enterprises, poor medium-sized farm holdings and young people, and to provide even more money for imperialist intervention by the EU and for the mechanisms which it uses to repress and persecute the people.
The first budget approved by the European Parliament, with its allegedly enhanced powers under the Treaty of Lisbon, is worthy of its reactionary nature.
There has been increasing volatility in international dairy markets in recent years.
The EUR 300 million of exceptional funding given to the dairy sector in the 2010 budget was especially beneficial for dairy farmers, who were suffering greatly because of the crisis.
The best argument against this is the situation of the Member States which have proceeded with this action domestically.
The pressure exerted on consumption by restricting it has not brought us out of the crisis, but has actually created unprecedented social pressure.
I agree then with the EUR 300 million increase in the milk fund.
I strongly support the idea of the European stabilisation mechanism and the need for the two new budgetary lines created to be specific, with figures provided and not blank, as is the case now, so that this European intervention instrument can become a reality rather than just a theory.
I hope that Parliament's viewpoint will be respected during the conciliation, that an agreement will be reached with the Council and that we will be able to vote 'yes' in November to the 2011 EU budget.
The European Parliament, for the first time in its history, has discussed the draft general budget of the European Union for 2011 according to the new rules under the Treaty of Lisbon.
With regard to the improvement of democratic procedures, but also with regard to the structure of the budget, I supported this proposal.
I voted in favour of the Parliament resolution as I agree with Parliament's horizontal priorities for 2011 in the areas of youth, education and mobility, which require, under the various policies, specific cross-sector investment as a means of promoting growth and development in the EU.
I agree with the proposed increase in funding for all programmes related to these priorities, namely the Lifelong Learning, PESSOA and Erasmus Mundus programmes.
I also agree that the mobility of youth employment is an essential tool for ensuring the development of a competitive and dynamic labour market in Europe, and as such, it needs to be strengthened.
I welcome the increase in funding for the European Employment Service and therefore strongly support the launch of the preparatory action 'Your First Job Abroad', which aims to help young people enter the labour market or gain access to skilled jobs in another Member State as a first step towards a specific non-academic programme for the mobility of young people.
This budget does not measure up to what the European Union needs for it to come out of the recession, bring about recovery and face up to its responsibilities in terms of solidarity.
In this respect, I regret the fact that the proposal by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament for creating a line of 'own resources' funded by a tax on financial transactions was quite simply rejected by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
This is a bad signal for the recovery of growth and employment in Europe, in general, and for European citizens, in particular.
We would like the EU's priorities for the budget to be focused more on the future, increased competitiveness, investments in infrastructure and research, rather than propping up agricultural policy.
We have today adhered to our priorities by voting for legal certainty, increased appropriations for research and more money for climate measures, but also for a reduction in appropriations for agricultural subsidies, export subsidies, tobacco cultivation and dairy funds.
Even though it did not contain all of the priorities that we would have liked to have seen, we have, of course, voted in favour of the EU budget for 2011.
We have just adopted the 2011 budget that the European Parliament wanted.
This vote has enabled us to reaffirm our priorities towards the poorest, for whom a EUR 100 million package has been requested, and also towards dairy producers for whom we would like to see the milk fund continue.
Finally, we would like to see the European budget be given its own resources and a tax on financial transactions finally introduced.
The idea of a European tax cannot be contemplated in the present context: the fiscal pressure bearing on Member States should be reduced first.
The European Parliament has spoken on the draft legislative resolution on the Council's position on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2011.
The European Parliament's examination of the general budget of the European Union has always provided an opportunity to see more clearly how this Union's powers have been extended over the years and, vice versa, how the Member States' sovereignty has been lost.
in writing. - I believe any proposal to increase the EU budget to be unacceptable, on the basis that I cannot justify to my constituents increasing EU spending by nearly 6% in 2011.
I could not look my constituents in the eye, some who will undoubtedly lose their jobs as a result of cuts in UK spending, and say that MEPs spent even more of their money wisely - and remember it is their money - by boosting the coffers of the EEAS, Europol and regulation of financial services.
That is why I voted against this budget.
A strong and modern Europe needs a future- and growth-oriented budget while, at the same time, the economic situation demands reflection and restraint.
I have therefore chosen to keep to a budget-restrictive line and have focused on broad investments in research, development and innovation that create growth and jobs in accordance with the Europe 2020 strategy.
Since I want to see a Europe that is sustainable from the point of view of the economy, social matters and the climate, I therefore voted in favour of investments in the environment, in individuals and in control of the financial markets, but always within the bounds of existing resources.
Thriving rural areas are very important.
Since everyone has to do their bit in these difficult economic times, I also voted in favour of reducing the EU's administration costs.
We Swedish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the draft EU budget for 2011.
It is a restrained budget, but it also contains necessary investments in research, energy and initiatives for young people, and it enables the establishment of the EU's new External Action Service and new authorities for financial supervision.
However, it is also a budget in which many of the EU's new priorities lack reasonable financing, for example, the EU's new strategy for growth and employment (EU 2020), climate policy and the EU's foreign policy and aid policy, particularly the aid for Palestine.
We also voted for an examination of the system of the EU's own resources, including a tax on financial transactions.
Irrespective of the form that a new system for the EU's revenue might take, it must be budget neutral and respect the Member States' competence in the sphere of taxation.
With regard to Parliament's own budget, we believe that those committees that are gaining a heavier workload as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon need to be strengthened.
This justifies an increase in staff for Parliament's and the groups' secretariats.
Parliament has now decided to maintain the appropriations for an increase in the assistants allowance in reserve, and this should not be released unless all conditions are met.
The EU budget is vital for the development of EU activities, and, especially in times of crisis, for the effective allocation of funds relating to cohesion policy.
I believe that the Council should not reduce these funds arbitrarily, as observed for priorities such as funds allocated to innovation, and for objectives of growth and competitiveness.
The Council has cut commitment appropriations by 0.55% and payment appropriations by 2.77%, approving a final budget of EUR 141.8 billion for commitment appropriations and EUR 126.5 billion for payment appropriations, which may be especially critical if it impacts on European growth and competitiveness.
I therefore support Parliament's maintaining of the initial funding allocated to these areas.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the distinction between compulsory expenditure and non-compulsory expenditure has been suppressed, which means that Parliament and the Council are becoming jointly responsible for all EU spending, and that they decide upon it together.
The 2011 budget which Parliament is proposing is ambitious, intelligent and respects the commitments which it has taken on in a rigorous and realistic way.
We are making a priority of policies concerning young people, education, mobility, training, research, competitiveness and innovation.
This clearly demonstrates the need to revise the multiannual financial framework, given the tight margins for its headings, and particularly for headings 1A, 3B and 4.
We agree with the criticisms made of the arbitrary cuts and reductions effected by the Council on the draft budget, leaving it almost EUR 7 billion lower in 2011 than was agreed in the multiannual financial framework (MFF) 2007-2013.
This is all the more unacceptable as the sum agreed in the MFF is already an extremely small amount, which compromises any economic and social cohesion right from the start.
What is needed - starting with the necessary reinforcement of the Union budget, based on contributions from the Member States in proportion to their gross national income - is a break with these policies and a genuine commitment to cohesion, social progress and environmental conservation.
No one or hardly anyone here has the decency to highlight that there is something scandalous about asking for an increase in resources allocated to the European Union or the creation of a new tax when Member States are being ordered to practise austerity and to slash their social protection.
In France, Europe has an enormous direct cost: EUR 8 billion per year, a figure that is increasing all the time.
In other words, it accounts for a major part of the social security deficit, for example.
The indirect cost is even greater, in terms of unemployment, weak growth, relocations, and so on, linked to European policies.
An aggravating circumstance is this: for 15 years, the European Court of Auditors has been unable to approve the management by the Commission of these tens of billions of euro.
I supported the European Parliament resolution on the draft general budget of the EU for 2011.
If we want to be able to take on the political priorities of the European Union, the new expenditure made necessary by the economic crisis and the new powers conferred by the Treaty of Lisbon, we must support an ambitious draft budget, capable of delivering the investments required for more jobs and a return to sustainable growth, or, in other words, a budget that lives up to the Europe that we want.
The Council would like to reduce the Union's budget, because Member States are facing substantial deficits.
That is why we have introduced a new budget heading for the Union's own resources, so that the budget does not depend so much on national contributions.
I support the European Parliament's proposals for the draft 2011 budget.
The important political areas and the individual opinions have been taken into account in the report.
I voted for this report as the European Parliament identifies the most important priorities in its policies in the areas of young people, education and mobility.
I, too, have maintained on a number of occasions that they are vital and necessary components of the EU economic recovery strategy and the Europe 2020 strategy.
Young people, education and mobility require specific cross-sector investments within the suitable policies in order to promote the EU's growth and development.
I therefore support the need to increase the loans for all the programmes relating to these priorities, such as 'Lifelong learning', the 'People' programme and Erasmus Mundus.
in writing. - On individual votes, I voted against provisions which I believe have negative consequences for EU citizens and people in developing countries.
This includes EU funding for tobacco production, as well as EU agricultural export subsidies which harm developing countries.
I also voted against increases in budget lines relating to expenses, travel and administrative costs.
However, I welcome the positive elements of the Parliament's first reading, including funding for economic development in our regions, support for crucial research and development and increased overseas aid in line with the UK's target to increase development assistance.
I believe the EU budget is needed to provide long-term stability against the severe austerity measures which are being introduced by national governments in Europe.
While national governments implement drastic cuts, in some cases, with a short-term vision, the EU budget can provide stability and long-term planning to help - through funds such as the structural funds and cohesion funds - create jobs, provide job training and boost European economies through the recovery, particularly by providing structural funds to deprived areas hit the hardest.
For the first time since the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force, the European budget has been adopted on a single reading.
The Union Budget must nevertheless be reconsidered in the light of the new powers arising from the Treaty of Lisbon and the need for own resources.
These matters require firmness during conciliation in order to provide adequate financial support to such an ambitious project as the EU 2020 strategy.
The entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) has strengthened EU policies and created new areas of competence - notably, the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), competitiveness and innovation, space, tourism, the fight against climate change, social policy, energy policy, justice and internal affairs.
These new powers presuppose a budget that will allow them to be put into practice and thus require all bodies with budgetary authority to be coherent and consistent with respect to their increased financial powers.
We therefore have to provide the Community budget with the necessary funds to make it able to achieve the objectives outlined for 2014, so that the Europe 2020 strategy is not compromised.
Of course, in this situation of crisis, the Member States are putting up some resistance to the increase in contributions, but they must acknowledge the intentions of the EU and the need not to jeopardise everything that has been achieved in terms of cohesion and integration.
The fact that Parliament now has the right of codecision on the entire budget reinforces democratic control.
It is important that the European Parliament, as the EU's only directly elected institution, has its budgetary rights strengthened so that it can influence important EU decisions such as the demand for cost savings in the new External Action Service.
I voted in favour of the draft budget because I approve of its general position and its contents.
I believe that this vote is extremely important and I applaud the position expressed by Parliament, which really makes use of the new prerogatives.
Indeed, thanks to the new budget procedure brought in by the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament can assert its importance and its powers in relation to the Council, defending a strong and ambitious budget, which, at the same time, is tough, in awareness of the fact that in order to relaunch the economy of the European Union - sorely tested by the recent economic and financial crisis - important investments in key sectors such as research and technological innovation are required.
The initial draft budget tabled before the Committee on Culture and Education by the Committee on Budgets fell short in that it failed to adopt ambitious measures to achieve the primary targets of the EU 2020 strategy in education, training and mobility.
I voted in favour of the Parliament resolution as I agree with Parliament's horizontal priorities for 2011, especially in the areas of youth, education and mobility, which require, under the various policies, specific investment between sectors as a means of promoting growth and development for the EU.
I agree with the proposed increase in funding for all programmes related to these priorities, namely, the Lifelong Learning, PESSOA and Erasmus Mundus programmes.
I also believe that the mobility of youth employment is an essential tool for ensuring the development of a competitive and dynamic labour market in Europe, and that as such, it needs to be strengthened.
I therefore welcome the increase in funding for the European Employment Service and strongly support the launch of the preparatory action 'Your First Job Abroad', which aims to help young people enter the labour market or gain access to skilled jobs in another Member State, as a first step towards a specific non-academic programme for the mobility of young people.
EUR 142 650 billion - that is the budget for the financial year 2011, adopted by the European Parliament at midday today.
However, we all know that Europe cannot do more and better with less money.
The first derives from the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the new powers for Europe in the fields of foreign policy, energy, financial supervision, to mention only a few.
This leads us back to the one and only solution - direct financing of the European Union.
in writing. - This year's budget debate again underlines the need to agree a meaningful system of own resources for the EU.
The annual squabbling over the budgets between the European institutions leads to chaotic decision making and creates an acrimonious diversion, which could be so easily avoided through an own resources system, such as allocating part of the revenue from an EU financial transaction tax, a tax on aviation fuel or a carbon tax to fund the EU budget.
Despite this, today's vote broadly strikes a balance between responding to the extra demands created by the Lisbon Treaty, whilst limiting the growth in the EU budgets, in response to current budgetary difficulties.
I have chosen to abstain in respect of the decision regarding Parliament's draft budget.
I am also pleased that Parliament is rejecting the Commission's and the Council's proposal for cuts in financial assistance to the Palestinian Authority.
The main winner is agriculture, particularly the establishment of a dairy fund of EUR 300 million.
The approved document restores the Commission's initial proposal relating to the section on cohesion for growth and employment after the Council had reduced the amount allocated.
Although the amount for 2011 is already set out in the multiannual financial framework (MFF) with an upper limit of EUR 50.65 billion at current prices, it is worth noting that the rapporteur states that this heading will require a higher level of payments.
I also welcome the allocations in the competitiveness section for growth and employment, which includes provision for funding for most of Parliament's proposals, such as those relating to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and programmes for young people, education and mobility.
I think that in the resolution as a whole, there are many more good measures than those which are of less value.
The resolution which has been adopted says that all Member States will be represented in the service.
Now we have to take care that this does really happen.
This creates confidence in the process of establishing the External Action Service.
in writing. - I welcome the positive elements of the 2011 budget, which include funding for economic development in Wales, support for research and development, and overseas aid.
I recognise that extra expenditure resulting from the European External Action Service and new European supervisory authorities is required and is supported by all Member States, including the UK, in the Council.
However, I am concerned about expenditure in a number of areas that do not reflect value for money or have negative consequences for EU citizens and people in developing countries.
This includes EU funding for alcohol and tobacco production, which conflicts with the EU's health objectives, and EU agricultural export subsidies, which harm developing countries, as well as increases in budget lines relating to expenses, travel, publications and other administrative costs.
In the current economic environment, it is more important than ever to justify expenditure on our priorities by tackling all wasteful and excessive spending in other sectors.
However, I also believe that some increases were not justified and therefore I took the decision to abstain.
The key points in the EU budget for 2011 are investment in training, research and innovation - a necessity given the current situation on the labour market.
The reduction in current unemployment in Europe needs to be at the heart of every decision - including when it comes to actually implementing the ambitious Europe 2020 targets.
Prioritising youth in connection with the training and mobility programmes is a very worthwhile investment, with good opportunities for development for the labour market.
There are some increases, but also cuts - the budget is a compromise, like every multi-party decision.
Redirecting money into nuclear research, however, cannot be in the interests of the people of Europe and this money would be better spent, for example, on renewable energy sources.
in writing. - The EPLP welcomes the positive elements in the Parliament's first reading position, including funding for economic development in our regions, support for crucial research and development and increased overseas aid in line with the UK's target to increase total overseas development assistance.
We also recognise that extra expenditure resulting from the European External Action Service and the new European supervisory authorities is essential to implement these important new activities, and is supported by all Member States, including the UK, in the Council.
However, we are deeply concerned about expenditure in a number of areas that do not reflect value for money or have negative consequences for EU citizens and people in developing countries.
This includes EU funding for alcohol and tobacco production, which conflicts with the EU's health objectives, and EU agricultural export subsidies which harm developing countries, as well as increases in budget lines relating to expenses, travel, publications and other administrative costs.
In the current economic environment, it is more important than ever to justify expenditure on our priorities by tackling all wasteful and excessive spending in other sectors.
The EPLP voted against the final budget resolution at this stage, to send a clear message ahead of negotiations between the institutions.
I have great pleasure in congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Jędrzejewska, on her excellently prepared report.
Today, for the first time, we have adopted an EU budget under the provision set out in the Treaty of Lisbon and, also for the first time, we have not exceeded the financial limits set out in the current financial perspective.
I believe that the solutions proposed by Mrs Jędrzejewska express a realistic and pragmatic approach at a difficult time of economic crisis.
I am also pleased to note that the budget adopted today strengthens Parliament's priorities in financial terms.
The extension of maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks should be considered a fundamental right.
This new period should not be seen as a threat, even taking into account the introduction of rights for fathers.
The guarantee of a monthly salary of 100% while on maternity leave, along with the extension of the period prohibiting dismissal from six months to a year should not be called into question, taking into account both the demographic concerns and the current economic climate.
Other simple yet significant measures are, for example, the possibility of flexible working hours in the period following maternity leave, preventive measures with regard to health and safety, and the extension of these rights to couples who adopt children, thus promoting a fairer legal framework.
Unfortunately, in Europe, the birth rate varies from country to country and often depends not only on the guarantee of rights being protected but also on the social services available to working mothers, such as nurseries, for example.
The maternity protection system in force in Italy is, on the whole, in line with the new parameters proposed in the directive, not only with regard to the number of weeks of compulsory maternity leave, but also with regard to the payment of 100% compensation to cover income during the period of absence.
I agree with extending the period of maternity leave to a minimum of 20 weeks with full pay, while providing, however, a certain flexibility to the states which already have provisions for this kind of leave.
Workers who take their maternity leave must receive their full salary, which is 100% of their salary in the last month they worked or the average of their monthly salaries.
The amendments adopted will prevent pregnant women from being sacked from the start of their pregnancy up until six months after the end of their maternity leave.
Eighteen years after the first directive on pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth and/or are breastfeeding, the economic and demographic situation in Europe has certainly changed.
We have therefore voted today in plenary to amend the legislation in force on maternity leave, in order to encourage the employment of women while enabling them to have a family in the best possible conditions.
We shall therefore now have to negotiate with Member States to reach a compromise on this text.
Before the vote, we were aware of the resistance among Members from the various groups to adopting the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks, the need to pay people in that situation 100% of their salary, extending the measures in the case of disabled children, and the inclusion of paternity leave.
I welcome the fact that following much anticipated discussions, today, the European Parliament approved this very important directive.
On the basis of this new directive, the length of maternity leave will be extended from 14 to 20 weeks on full pay.
Today, in order to solve as soon as possible the demographic problems we face due to the low birth rate and ageing society, we must share family commitments.
Therefore, it is very important that this directive should lay down the right for men to take at least two weeks paternity leave.
This proposal will allow us to create a better balance within families and will improve integration in the labour market.
Parliament has shown that it can achieve the objectives laid down in the Europe 2020 strategy of enabling families to balance work and personal life better while striving for economic growth, welfare, competitiveness and gender equality.
I really hope that this directive adopted by Parliament will also be approved by Council as soon as possible.
The EU is currently facing demographic problems caused by the falling birth rate and rise in the number of elderly people.
Women are still regarded as being the principal carers of children and other dependants, which means that they are faced on many occasions with the need to choose between motherhood and a professional career.
It is therefore fundamentally important that the new forms of leave do not reflect or confirm current stereotypes in society.
The birth rate in many Member States is still undoubtedly very low.
I voted in favour of Mrs Estrela's report as it heads in this direction.
I consider it right, in fact, that we should harmonise maternity rights between Member States (always taking into account first and foremost the health of the new mothers and their newborns) in order to avoid discrepancies and a reduction in the competitiveness of States that adopted advanced measures to protect motherhood some time ago.
In this regard, I appreciate the proposal to extend maternity leave to 18 weeks in all EU countries, a practice which is already in force in several Member States: in Italy, for example, twenty-one and a half weeks' leave are granted.
in writing. - I am against the concept of 20 weeks at full pay and voted against that particular amendment.
Nevertheless, I decided to vote in favour of the final text as amended because of the insertion of a clause that was negotiated by the PPE, allowing for a degree of flexibility during the last four weeks.
I have thus decided to support my political group in the attainment of this compromise.
I am pleased that the European Parliament has made progress on this matter since the debate on the demographic challenge for which I was the rapporteur in 2007.
This vote proves that it is still possible these days to achieve new social acquis: with mobilisation and political action we can protect the achievements of past victories, but also obtain new rights.
Today, we have strengthened women's rights, but also those of men, with this paternity leave.
The latter represents a real change in attitudes and, over the years, will contribute to improving the allocation of roles between parents.
in writing. - Regarding Amendment 9: UKIP voted in favour of this amendment which merely stated that 'All parents have the right to care for their child'.
However, the UK Government is far too cavalier in taking children into state care, so voting in favour of this recital will be a shot across their bow.
This will also further the discrimination of women by making them even more costly to hire than they already are, especially for small businesses, which are the backbone of the UK economy.
UKIP voted against this directive to ensure that legislation is accountable through the ballot box and not through Brussels bureaucrats.
I voted in favour of the report because it is very important for gender equality and to the defence of the rights of workers - men and women - in terms of maternity and paternity rights.
This is an important step forward in defending and promoting women's rights and equality in general in the workplace, given that, according to the report, 'the vulnerability of pregnant workers and of workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding makes it necessary for them to be granted the right to maternity leave of at least 20 continuous weeks, allocated before and/or after confinement, and renders necessary the compulsory nature of maternity leave of at least six weeks allocated after confinement'.
I also voted in favour of the report on the basis of an additional, very important element in it: the recognition of the father's right to two weeks' paternity leave.
This will also further the discrimination of women by making them even more costly to hire than they already are, especially for small businesses which are the backbone of the UK economy.
UKIP voted against this directive to ensure that legislation is accountable through the ballot box and not through Brussels bureaucrats.
This proposal aims to improve the conditions of security and health associated with parenthood.
On this issue, I would argue that the asymmetries between men and women must be reduced, and that a balanced reconciliation of professional life with family and private life must be promoted.
Starting from this presupposition, I agree with the rapporteur's proposal and believe that extending maternity leave to 20 weeks, six of which must be after giving birth and which may be shared between the parents, would make it an appropriate period.
I also welcome the proposal included in the report that aims to guarantee payment of the full monthly wage during maternity leave, which is 100% of the last monthly salary or the average monthly salary.
Finally, it would seem appropriate to me to apply the same measures in cases where a child younger than 12 years old is adopted, and to apply them to self-employed women.
I declare that I voted for this report for the reasons outlined above.
This draft directive, on the other hand, strikes a correct balance between the biological role of the woman and the rights owed to those who perform that role to the full.
With demographic matters that are coming more and more to resemble an emergency and an economy that demands higher and higher female employment rates, these measures are a common sense response.
Recognition of equality is complete when certain rights are also extended to fathers, allowing family undertakings to be shared in the most appropriate manner, and when flexibility of organisation is left up to each family.
I voted to improve the safety and health at work of pregnant workers out of respect for the principle of equal gender rights and non-discrimination based on gender, as well as to encourage women to become more involved in the labour market.
Another important aspect of this measure, aimed at job security for women, is the ban on making them redundant during the period from the start of their pregnancy until at least six months after the end of their maternity leave.
Last but not least, one crucial argument in support of this vote is to increase the birth rate, which is a particularly serious problem facing EU Member States.
This low birth rate, combined with an ageing population, will pose a real problem for us in the future in terms of paying for pensions and medical care charges in Europe.
Pregnant workers and workers who are breastfeeding must not carry out activities which, based on assessments, pose a risk of exposure to certain agents or particularly harmful working conditions that jeopardise the safety or health of these workers.
These measures must not put women at a disadvantage in the labour market or be detrimental to the directives on equal treatment for women and men.
I broadly agree with the measures proposed in this report, as I believe that this issue is one of the major challenges that Europe will have to overcome in the coming decades: the ageing population.
This is the case in Portugal, for example, where I see it at close hand.
However, like other EU countries, the birth rate is not high enough to ensure that generations are replaced, and this harsh situation is jeopardising the future.
I believe that more flexible policies with regard to maternity and paternity leave can help to reverse these trends.
It is therefore vital to send families a consistent message of support for motherhood and fatherhood, with concrete measures for the better reconciliation of professional, private and family life.
Meeting this challenge is vital in order to achieve the economic and social objectives set out in the Europe 2020 strategy and as a way of trying to reverse demographic ageing on our continent.
I would therefore argue that women's salaries should be assured during maternity leave in the manner described in this report.
The vote for a legislative motion for a resolution amending Directive 92/85/EEC was taken not only to support new and better measures for the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding but also, more generally, to support new measures to promote a better work-life balance.
Even though the Italian legal system is more innovative, the increase in the number of weeks of maternity leave at European level represents a strong boost in favour of family assistance to newborn babies.
Finally, with a view to striking a better work-life balance, I feel it is also important to have supported the call to Member States to strengthen childhood services with care facilities for children up to the age of compulsory schooling.
The vote on the Estrela report on the rights of pregnant women and young mothers at work will make it possible to harmonise the length and pay of maternity leave with a minimum level.
The European Parliament has chosen to have a strong position to negotiate with the Council and has therefore supported the principle of a 20-week period of leave paid at 100% (may I point out that in Sweden, maternity leave can be as long as 75 weeks, with 14 weeks exclusively for the mother, and the remaining can be shared with the father).
This is a strong gesture in favour of European parents and as a result, women and men will be helped in finding a better balance between family life and work life.
I believe that this vote, which has passed by a large majority, is a strong signal that is being sent to the Council: in addition to the extension of maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks on full pay, we have voted in favour of the introduction of two weeks' paternity leave.
It is our duty to ensure that no one will have to choose to give up children for work or work for children.
Adoptive parents are parents in the full sense of the word and deserve to be treated as such.
This is therefore a great day for the many families that are unable to reconcile their family life with their professional life.
Extending the period of maternity leave to 20 weeks on full pay is a false friend.
It will, furthermore, compromise a woman's return to work in exactly the same position as she held before going on leave.
Finally, opting for 100% remuneration over a long period represents a cost for social security systems (in a context in which the European institutions are calling strongly on States to reduce their budget deficits).
It is for these reasons that I have been unable to support this report, and why I consider that we should retain a sense of realism and allow Member States to keep a certain degree of flexibility on this matter.
Parliament has just voted at first reading for extending maternity leave to a minimum of 20 weeks all over Europe, paid at full salary, except for high earners, and the possibility for fathers to take at least two weeks' leave following the birth of a child.
This is a victory for the proponents of a social Europe and a step towards more equality between men and women in Europe.
The battle must now be won at the Council, where several governments are threatening to block this directive.
Members of national parliaments should take this up and intervene with their government so that governments do not undo what the European Parliament is proposing for a Europe that protects its citizens' rights.
Evidence shows that women are currently benefiting considerably from the provisions already in force within the UK, 9 out of 10 women taking the 20 weeks maternity leave, as well as 3 in 4 women taking all their paid leave.
It reflects an outdated view of equality where the mother is to take the main responsibility for the children instead of both parents sharing the responsibility.
We have therefore chosen to vote in favour of those parts that we believe to be positive, such as the amendment that protects national systems that have more ambitious parental insurance, the increase in the minimum length of maternity leave and the inclusion of paternity leave in the directive.
We Swedish Social Democrats chose to support Mrs Estrela's report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 92/85/EEC on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding.
However, we believe that the report is important in terms of improving the current directive, which provides very limited possibilities for combining work and parenthood in many EU Member States.
The Democratic and Social Centre - People's Party (CDS-PP) has long seen the birth rate issue as a state priority and recognises that it is impossible to stimulate the birth rate without protecting parenting.
The chapters dedicated to the family and the birth rate are not a new inclusion in our programmes.
Policies that support families and the birth rate, like those that we advocate, are, however, cross-sectional and are not confined to extending maternity leave.
That is why we would like to see the Socialist Party at our side in Parliament defending mothers and fathers.
The EU is facing a demographic challenge marked by low birth rates and an increasing proportion of elderly people.
In Portugal, the birth rate is not high enough to ensure that generations are replaced, and this situation is jeopardising the future.
I would therefore argue that in order to counter this trend, improved health and safety should be encouraged for workers who are pregnant, who have recently given birth, or who are breastfeeding, which calls for the promotion of a balanced reconciliation of professional life with private and family life.
I agree with the position of the rapporteur and with the changes introduced, such as the extension of the minimum period for maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks, the principle of pay equivalent to complete earnings, the establishment of health and safety requirements in the workplace, and the prohibition of dismissal.
The vote in favour of the report on improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, is the culmination of a long discussion process in the European Parliament, which was already left over from the last session and in which we have actively participated, contributing to the report's adoption.
Although we are still in the first reading of the directive's proposal, it is positive in the area of women's rights because of the signal that it sends out, particularly to the countries that still do not have 20 weeks of maternity leave on full pay and that are still not applying two weeks of paternity leave, also with full pay.
The adoption of this proposal for negotiation with the Council acknowledges the fundamental social value of maternity and paternity, respecting the rights of working women who want to become mothers.
We hope that the Council will now accept the European Parliament's position, which increases the Commission's proposal from 18 to 20 weeks, and aims to amend the directive that is currently in force and which only sets aside 14 weeks for maternity leave.
Woman is the future of man, wrote Louis Aragon.
Children are precious.
By voting in favour of a 20-week minimum maternity leave (it is currently 14 weeks) with full pay, and by endorsing a compulsory two-week paternity leave in the European Union, the European Parliament has moved in the direction of undeniable social progress.
The negotiations that will now begin between the 27 Member States in the Council will be difficult.
The OECD study shows that there will be very substantial costs for the social budgets of Member States.
Applying these measures poses a very great risk to the employment of women.
The increase from 14 to 18 weeks proposed by the Commission was a real step forward.
I voted for the Estrela report and I am glad that Parliament has taken such a progressive position towards mothers, future mothers and fathers.
The extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks is undeniable social progress, which embodies the social Europe that we earnestly desire.
This text improves the balance between family life and work life.
The introduction of a compulsory two-week paternity leave is also a big step forward in the change in attitudes and in the division of roles between parents.
The argument of additional costs that this measure would incur would be valid if women did not already supplement their maternity leave with sick leave and/or paid leave.
Businesses and social protection systems are already paying these costs.
in writing. - I am proud to have voted for the extension of maternity rights and condemn Conservative and Liberal Democrat MEPs who first conspired to obstruct parliamentary agreement of this directive and today voted to deny decent rights to working women.
I want to record the fact that I wished to vote for a different compromise on the length of the period for maternity pay but respect that this option fell because a majority in Parliament supported 20 weeks.
I recognise there will be a further negotiation on this point before the directive is finally agreed, and that it was vital for this Parliament finally to agree a text to enable the process to move forward.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has pointed out that many of the proposals (amendments) put forward exceed the scope and purpose of the directive.
I believe that equal opportunities are one of the basic principles underpinning the work of the EU and, for that reason, I will be using every opportunity to make the positions of women and men equal.
Extending the period of maternity leave to 20 weeks with full pay for this duration are measures which restore the dignity of mothers.
This is why I voted unreservedly for the proposal in the report, in the confidence that Member States will heed our decision and incorporate it into their national legislations.
Apart from supporting mothers, this report also recommends states to introduce fully paid parental leave, thereby recognising the role of both parents in bringing up children.
We have sent out an important message with our vote today, which calls for a decent living, extending beyond ideological limits and national social systems.
I did not wish to support this report because extending the period of maternity leave from 14 weeks (as provided by the current directive) to 20 weeks on full pay would have a considerable financial impact on Member States (EUR 1.3 billion for France) at a time of economic crisis that is hardly favourable to budgetary growth.
Second, the additional costs for businesses in Member States where the latter partly finance maternity leave (for example, Germany) would be very high.
Finally, the European Parliament, in adopting measures that are not financially practicable and which could even be counterproductive in terms of women's participation in the job market, is damaging its credibility in the European decision-making process.
Extending maternity leave to 18 weeks, as proposed by the Commission, would have been an important step in improving the situation of women, by avoiding the pitfalls in the text as finally adopted by the European Parliament, when what is really important is to enable women to reconcile their professional life with their family life.
Many women are eminent specialists in their fields, and Europe's economy cannot do without the services of this highly qualified workforce.
The situation is similar with women living and working in the countryside.
This obviously puts both their health and their child in jeopardy.
in writing. - (LV) I voted in favour of extending the minimum obligatory period of maternity leave to 18 weeks, but against extending it to 20 weeks.
I fully appreciate the need to ensure appropriate conditions for mothers who have recently given birth.
However, in the long term, extending the minimum period of leave to 20 weeks would be disadvantageous for young women planning to have a family and a professional career.
We can already see that it is difficult for young people to find jobs, and extending maternity leave will reduce women's ability to compete with men in the job market still further.
Fixing maternity leave at 20 weeks would mean billions in budgetary costs throughout Europe.
The proposal is realistic and balanced in relation to market conditions, not only because of the economic crisis, but also because of the demands and professional obligations and ambitions of working women themselves.
Moreover, as I have consistently argued, efforts to reconcile family life with work and raising children basically require social infrastructures and corporate social responsibility throughout a woman's working life.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against the Estrela report because extending maternity leave to 20 weeks is, in reality, a good idea only at first sight.
What is more, the proposal to extend from 14 to 20 weeks with full pay is not a financially acceptable position for many countries.
Indeed, the extra costs incurred by this extension can be afforded neither by businesses nor by Member States.
The initial proposal by the European Commission, namely the increase from 14 to 18 weeks, was a big enough step forward.
I would like to underline that on Mrs Estrela's report, I voted in favour of the rules on 20 weeks' maternity leave, protecting women from unfair dismissal six months after returning to work and in favour of full pay and protection of women while breastfeeding, but in this case, without specific recommendations, as I believe that these rules should stay within the competence of the Member States.
In the case of multiple births, I believe that leave should be extended correspondingly.
I am always in support of any ideas that will help women have a safe maternity experience and guarantee them better conditions for returning to the job market.
The delegation of the Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) to the European Parliament has today voted against the proposal for a directive extending (paid) maternity leave to 20 weeks.
We are of the opinion that the previously established minimum of 14 weeks is sufficient.
This proposal would entail an extension of social security, which is a matter that Member States should be able to decide on themselves, certainly in times such as these, when all the Member States have to economise.
There are other, less rigorous ways in which measures allowing a better balance between work and private life could be put in place.
The proposal carries the risk that young, talented women might be left with fewer opportunities in the labour market, because employers will not want to run the risk of having to pay many months' maternity leave to their female employees.
The EU goal is for 75% labour participation by 2020, and a crucial element of this will be giving all mothers the ability to take maternity leave which they can afford and then return to work.
Women should not feel that having children is incompatible with their work - our policies need to enable care for younger and older persons.
The implementation of this will not come into force for at least 5 years.
Furthermore, with an increase of just 1.04% of women's participation in the labour market, the additional costs of extending maternity leave would be covered.
in writing. - (IT) One of the priorities laid down in the EU's social agenda is the need to promote policies to facilitate a work-life balance, aimed at women and men alike.
Motherhood and fatherhood are certainly inalienable fundamental rights for the purposes of social balance.
This is only for reasons of economic sustainability, in order to cover the additional costs arising.
The report adopted proposes maternity leave of 20 weeks without any loss of earnings.
This is the case in Portugal, where women are only entitled to 16 weeks fully paid.
The inclusion of two weeks of paternity leave is also an important step in the struggle for equality between men and women.
More importantly, this report has been approved even though it goes against the measures that have recently been adopted as a result of austerity policies which favour cuts in public spending and the reduction of social rights.
I therefore hope that this report can contribute to the strengthening of work and social rights across the EU and in all the Member States.
Anything that can contribute to changing this situation is therefore important.
The protection of pregnant and breastfeeding mothers in the workplace and the reduction of imbalances between men and women are important steps in that direction.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament legislative resolution on 'the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding', because I believe that improving women's rights in the workplace is a real step towards gender equality in an area in which, unfortunately, many barriers exist.
Extending the period of maternity leave is an important project in terms of the place that is given to babies and parenthood in our society.
I support the proposal to grant 18 weeks of maternity leave and also the principle of paternity leave.
We must avoid the adverse effects of measures that are too generous and risk bringing about discrimination in employment.
They must be able to decide when they wish to take the non-compulsory part of their maternity leave.
That should help them to achieve a better work-life balance and to remain employable.
I should also like to draw attention to the fact that the right to parental leave and the guarantee of the same job to come back to must be workable for employers, in particular, in small and medium-sized enterprises, or else they may well hesitate to hire or promote women of child-bearing age.
This should have a positive effect on women so that they may become mothers without worrying about the risks of poverty and social exclusion.
Moreover, the possibility to apply for a change of working hours or working arrangements must be granted, as well as the possibility to refuse overtime work shortly after giving birth.
The adoption of this scheme would have major consequences on the budgets of the Member States and businesses; for France, the additional annual cost would be EUR 1.3 billion, an unbearable financial burden at a time of budgetary cuts.
Although it is a nice idea, the consequences on women's employment could be negative.
In contrast, the proposal for a maximum of 18 weeks was still socially fair.
The amendment to the directive is, in fact, aimed at promoting gender equality in the world of work, promoting a better balance between women's working and private lives.
I believe, in fact, that European law must establish a general framework that offers minimum guarantees and safeguards within which Member States can be left room to decide on the most suitable measures at their own discretion.
There are, in fact, differences linked to culture, to welfare and to social security systems that must be taken into due consideration, and also by virtue of respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 92/85/EEC on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding.
Two important factors determined my vote on certain amendments: firstly, the vital importance of guaranteeing the safety and health of young or future mothers and, secondly, the fact that Greece has specific legislation to protect pregnant women.
I voted in favour of the proposals on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, which include 20 weeks maternity leave and two weeks paternity leave, both without any reduction in earnings.
These are social measures that fit with the Europe that we want, with the aim of supporting the birth rate, the family, the health of babies, and parents' jobs.
However, this is a project that is difficult to carry out, and it may, perversely, exacerbate discrimination against women in the world of work because: (1) it puts extra pressure on social security systems, which, in many cases, are already only just sustainable; and (2) it introduces new constraints on the labour market, which already no longer meets the needs of the current workforce.
I am afraid, therefore, that these measures to support working parents may lead to increased levels of unemployment and/or precarious work among young mothers.
With my vote, I call for a new global approach that will make it possible to send a powerful message to companies to the effect that human reproduction concerns men as well as women.
The framework agreement on parental leave is an important aspect of the equal opportunities policy that promotes the reconciliation of working life and private and family life, but limits itself to setting minimum requirements and may therefore only be considered a first step.
I agree with the communication that considers children's rights to be a priority of the Union and calls on Member States to observe the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and its optional protocols as well as the Millennium Development Goals.
As far as this directive is concerned, this means guaranteeing all children the possibility of receiving care appropriate to their developmental needs as well as access to appropriate, high quality healthcare.
Today, the European Parliament has made an investment in the European Union's future by promoting motherhood through extending the period of maternity leave to 20 weeks, with full pay.
The simplistic argument of short-term economic benefits did not stand up, with the sustainability of European society prevailing, which is impossible to achieve without healthy demographics and therefore, by extension, without greater protection for mothers and their children.
I drafted the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and I voted in favour of: motherhood not being penalised and full pay being given; pregnant workers not being sacked during a period from the start of their pregnancy until six months after the end of their maternity leave; mothers being entitled to return to their job or an 'equivalent position', which means with the same remuneration, professional category and career path as they had prior to going on maternity leave; going on maternity leave not affecting their pension scheme; female workers not being obliged to work at night or overtime during the 10 weeks prior to the date they are due to give birth and for the remainder of the pregnancy if this is required for the health of the mother or foetus, and during the whole period of breastfeeding.
I voted against this resolution because I believe that maternity pay is a matter which must be decided at national level, based on the principle of subsidiarity.
However, in the end, I voted against this report, as I come from a country that has established a particular combination of maternity protection and waged/unwaged parental leave.
Alongside 16 weeks of leave on full pay and an absolute ban on working, women also have the right to unwaged maternity leave with child benefit.
Moreover, I am also in favour of introducing fully paid paternity leave, although a different legal basis should be chosen for this.
I believe that such paternity leave should not be regulated by the directive on maternity protection, but should instead be regulated by a dedicated directive that is not aimed at the protection of the health of mothers and children.
I voted in favour of maternity leave lasting 20 weeks.
Small and mediumsized enterprises, in particular, are at risk of facing difficulties.
The position of women regarding pay is alarming.
Economic interests have not helped: now we are embarking on a path that goes towards meeting the needs of new families.
The outcome of the vote looks toward a society that places growth, training and education at the centre of political action.
I believe that fears that extending maternity leave on full pay from 14 to 20 weeks will penalise women are unfounded: it is our specific duty to protect the weakest workers, allowing them the right to stay at home with their children.
Today's victory in Parliament also represents a personal satisfaction due to the efforts I have personally made with the aim of ensuring that no breastfeeding workers have to carry out heavy or dangerous duties, exempting them from overtime and night work.
With today's decision, the European Parliament has shown that it no longer wants women who are on the horns of a dilemma but women who are free and aware of their role in our society.
This directive establishes a minimum period of maternity leave of 20 weeks, of which at least six will be on full pay.
In other countries, however, this finally means laying the basis for guaranteeing dignity to mothers.
The proposal also envisages that fathers may have two weeks of paid leave so that they can be with their wives during the period immediately following birth.
in writing. - Today, I voted to support improved rights and a better work-life balance for working parents.
Of special importance in this report are the provisions for women who are breastfeeding at work.
In the final vote, however, we did not want to vote in favour of Parliament's legislative proposal because it went against several principles that are very important to us.
Firstly, the proposal wants to introduce a mandatory six weeks' leave just for the mother.
We believe that parents themselves should be able to choose how they take their parental leave and that this proposal would be a step in the wrong direction for gender equality in Sweden.
As far as Sweden is concerned, this could force a reduction in the length of parental insurance in order to finance such a costly system.
in writing. - The EPLP wholly supports the need to increase protection for women who are pregnant, have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, and therefore voted in favour of a number of the directive's key proposals.
These include the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks, full payment for mothers for the first compulsory six weeks after childbirth, and two weeks fully paid paternity leave.
While some aspects of this report will form an invaluable improvement in Member States with very low levels of maternity provision, these amendments may lead to social regression in other countries.
Today, the European Parliament has adopted a report to ensure the health of pregnant mothers and those on maternity leave.
By preventing unfair dismissal, we have also increased protection for the jobs of women returning to work after their maternity leave.
The changes the directive introduces are a step in the right direction, guaranteeing women in Europe a minimum entitlement to maternity leave.
The vote on Mrs Estrela's report is vitally important.
The position adopted is purely demagogic and irresponsible.
By demanding 20 weeks of maternity leave, we are discrediting the European Parliament.
Very significant costs for the social budgets of Member States would be incurred: as regards France, for instance, the amount would be EUR 1.3 billion.
The current economic situation does not allow us to absorb this kind of increase within state budgets, not to mention the consequences for our companies who will have to bear part of these additional costs.
The increase from 14 to 18 weeks proposed by the Commission was a real step forward; a step that could have been built on by giving some thought to new childcare options.
I welcome the adoption of this report on the proposal for a directive on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, and of measures aimed at helping workers to achieve a work-life balance.
We have made maternity leave longer and better paid, and we have, for the first time in European history, introduced paternity leave.
in writing. - I voted in favour of a legislative proposal guaranteeing enhanced and extended paternity/maternity pay in Parliament today.
Nevertheless, the European Parliament was in favour of 20 weeks' maternity leave at full salary, and 2 weeks' paternity leave, and I believe that this is a sensible investment in the economy, helping reach the EU target of 75% labour participation by 2020.
If we do not guarantee decent wages during maternity leave, women are punished in their earnings for having children.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we need to get more men and women into work, and ensure they stay in work, if we are to preserve our prosperity and be in a position to afford to pay out pensions.
A twenty-week maternity leave period on full pay is not a feasible solution for our social security systems and government budgets.
On the other hand, I do support the Commission's original proposal for an extension of maternity leave to 18 weeks, provided the current capped compensation scheme is enforced.
I hope this proposal will stand a better chance in the second parliamentary reading.
I voted for the report on the proposal for a directive on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding.
I believe that it is of paramount importance for workers on maternity leave to be paid their full salary and that the maternity allowance should be 100% of their last monthly salary or average salary, if the monthly salary is lower than this.
Given the demographic trends in the EU, the birth rate needs a boost by means of specific legislation and measures aimed at contributing to a better balance between professional, private and family life.
In order to help workers achieve their work-life balance, it is vital for longer periods of maternity and paternity leave to be provided, including for the adoption of children under the age of 12 months.
Setting the statutory period of maternity leave to 20 weeks is in line with the recommendation made by the World Health Organisation on 16 April 2002 on a global strategy on infant and young child feeding.
I voted against this report as it fails to stringently observe the principle of subsidiarity and interferes with national payment arrangements and the obligations of the Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, women must not be punished because they have decided to have a family.
It is not simply an ethical question, but also a strategic one - the EU is currently experiencing demographic changes due to the low birth rate and greater numbers of elderly people.
During these difficult times in particular, we must not frighten women away from the labour market.
It is essential, therefore, that the new leave arrangements presented in this report should help break these stereotypes.
However, we must achieve even more and turn theoretical gender equality into real, tangible gender equality, which is applied in everyday life.
I have voted in favour of the Estrela report because I do not want there to be any misunderstanding about the following: it goes without saying that women have particular needs during and immediately after pregnancy, that it is very much in the interests of society as a whole that these needs are met and that society, therefore, must also bear a great deal of the responsibility for this.
It is all very well to vote 'socially' in this House, but we are not the ones who have to carry the burden of social voting.
The directive on maternity leave has finally been adopted today, 20 October, by the European Parliament.
The directive has yet to be accepted by the Council.
The text passed today aims to confer on women in the European Union the right to 20 weeks' maternity leave, which is four weeks more than in France, where women currently have the right to 16 weeks' maternity leave.
The text we have adopted also provides a right to 20 days' paternity leave (more than the 11 days granted at the moment in France).
I voted in favour of this report, as there is a wide disparity in many countries as regards the payment terms to businesses when the state, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and large companies are involved.
We are well aware that in the current economic crisis, and with its increased difficulties, companies are increasingly struggling with liquidity problems, and that in many Member States, they are even exposed to an increased risk of bankruptcy.
The directive which attempted to regulate this matter had a limited effect, and the proposal that we have now adopted represents an important step in setting and meeting deadlines for payment, not only in relations between the companies and public bodies, but also in the relationships that companies establish with one another.
We will now have legislation that offers us greater effectiveness in meeting payment deadlines, with a clear system of penalties for late payment, and that also represents an effective improvement in counteracting the frequent abuse by the state and large companies of their dominant position over the SMEs.
This directive must now be implemented quickly by the Member States, so that the serious problems caused by the establishment of long payment terms and the dragging out of payments are finally resolved.
Public authorities are particularly to blame for creating difficulties, often due to incorrect management of their budgets and cash flow or as a result of too much red tape in their administrative machinery.
I therefore consider it our duty to adopt measures that make up for the shortcomings in the previous Directive 2000/35/EC, seeking in this way to discourage the phenomenon of late payment by adopting measures that induce debtors not to pay late and other measures that allow creditors to exercise their rights fully and effectively in the event of late payment.
I voted in favour of this timely report and for the establishment of a 30-day target period for paying bills.
SMEs are a cornerstone of the European economy; these smaller enterprises constitute 99.8% of all EU enterprises, and they create 70% of all employment in the EU.
The measures for tackling late payments contained in the report are practical measures for supporting SMEs and for ensuring that smaller companies do not lose out because of unpaid bills.
The new rules could create better conditions for investment and should enable SMEs to focus on innovation and development.
In addition, I welcome what the report says about ensuring that new measures do not increase the existing level of bureaucracy and that no extra bureaucracy or administrative problems are created for SMEs.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this report and am pleased that the European Parliament and the Council managed to reach this agreement, which is very important, particularly for small enterprise.
We will begin to really create an environment that is clear and understandable to small enterprises and will help to establish a business culture.
With the adoption of the new directive against late payments, a measure that represents tangible support to companies, and particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, the European Parliament is making a decisive contribution for the benefit of citizens and the European production system.
The recast directive in fact lays down categorical payment terms and appropriate penalties to encourage prompt payments within the Union by both public authorities and private companies.
According to estimates, this measure should put back approximately EUR 180 billion into circulation in the economy: this is the actual sum owed by public authorities to the enterprise system in the Union.
The late payment problem is particularly keenly felt in Italy, where public authorities take 128 days on average to make payments as opposed to a European average of 67 days.
The negative effects of late payments in commercial transactions are therefore considerable.
I hope that this directive is implemented as quickly as possible by national governments in order to remove one of the greatest obstacles to development in the European internal market.
At last, we have got here, after months of postponement: we have voted on the report that is a real breath of fresh air for the future of our companies.
Late payments represent a phenomenon which, especially in Italy, has brought tens of thousands of companies to their knees, costing the Italian economic system in the region of EUR 30 billion, according to calculations by professional associations.
Leaving aside specific considerations and national situations, I am voting in favour of the report, which sets out black and white rules once and for all for both public and private operators.
In an unstable economic climate, late payments can have an extremely adverse impact on small and medium-sized enterprises which need money to pay their employees and suppliers.
The new regulations on late payments in commercial transactions, which Parliament and the Council agreed on, on 5 October, should facilitate and speed up the process for companies to recover the money they are due.
The European Parliament has ensured that all parties will be on an equal footing and that the rules will apply to all, which will benefit many European SMEs.
Thanks to this agreement, SMEs will stop operating as banks for public enterprises or large companies.
I voted in favour of the report because I feel it is of fundamental importance to deploy all possible actions with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of SMEs.
Furthermore, combating late payment in commercial transactions, which represents an unacceptable abuse, must be pushed forward, particularly at a time of economic recession such as the one we are experiencing.
This directive rightly includes measures to discourage debtors from paying late, measures that allow creditors to exercise their rights, and also identifies specific and precise rules such as default notices, compensation for recovery costs and the 30-day deadline, unless particular derogations apply, for the payment of debts.
Furthermore, if contractual freedom between private businesses is respected, a substantial safeguard is introduced by prohibiting excessive payment deadlines towards creditors, who are often SMEs.
I abstained in the vote on the report because it reinforces the Commission's efforts to put pressure on debtor states, by proposing strict measures at a time when their public finances are in poor shape.
The pressure for debts to be settled immediately, with the threat of serious monetary penalties in the form of interest, mainly serves the interests of the businesses taking advantage of the crisis to seek cutbacks in social protection and a freeze on or cuts to workers' wages.
The argument that this will help small and medium-sized enterprises does not stand up because, with the figures quoted in the regulation, the enterprises in question are not small and medium-sized enterprises.
This sort of action would be warranted if preceded by bold support for the real economy of wage-earners and action to promote social and economic cohesion.
My focus is on the SMEs that represent an essential part of the European market in creating wealth and jobs.
With regard to the deterrent 8% interest rate, I am somewhat concerned about the results from certain regions of my country and other European states that are really struggling to respect the new rules.
I hope that this new approach can be a real opportunity for change.
I hope that the entry into force of the directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions will benefit most the European Union's small and medium-sized enterprises, which will therefore be afforded more protection and be provided with resources to increase investments and create new jobs.
At the same time, I hope that the directive will facilitate the development of debt-collecting mechanisms, as late payments from public authorities cause imbalances in the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises and, by extension, of the market too.
Late payments in commercial transactions between undertakings, and between undertakings and public authorities, are one of the things currently hampering the recovery of economic growth.
Approval of the new directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions represents a major innovation that will require appropriate preparation, above all, of the public sector, in both political and administrative terms.
In political terms, so that financial and budgetary planning can take account not only of the impact of European Union rules on the Stability and Growth Pact, but now also of the impact of the new rules on late payments, which, if not satisfactorily managed, could have both a direct and reflex effect on the room for manoeuvre of governments at various levels.
Finally, it seems important for there to be particular awareness and flexibility regarding several sectors, such as the health sector, in which the public authorities have run up significantly late payments owed to undertakings, for regular goods and services provided.
in writing. - In the current economic climate, it is hard enough for small and medium businesses to survive without the added burden of late payments in commercial transactions.
Therefore, any mechanism that helps to protect these businesses from the added costs and financial implications surrounding late payment should be welcomed.
However, I believe it is up to the British Government to regulate on this issue, not the European Union, to ensure firms and government bodies live up to their payment obligations.
I voted for the report on combating late payment in commercial transactions because it will enable the adoption of harmonised measures, which could be particularly important to the performance of companies - small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular - in the current situation of economic crisis.
Delayed payments are a problem with extremely serious consequences for the health of the global economy and a particularly devastating impact on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
The effects of this are even more pernicious in the current period of economic and financial crisis.
The bad example given by public administration is unacceptable, as is happening to a particularly severe degree in Portugal.
in writing. - The adoption of the Weiler report today marks an important shift in the threshold of the payment dimension in business relations.
Numerous SMEs, which account for over 70% of employment in the private sector, have encountered serious cash flow difficulties due to delayed payments from undertakings, especially from public authorities, including the government.
Unfortunately, there are considerable disparities between Member States when it comes to complying with terms of payment, and this makes it necessary to verify carefully Directive 2000/35/EC of 8 August 2002, which is currently in force.
Lack of discipline in transactions is a particular threat to small and medium-sized enterprises in countries which have been hit by the economic crisis.
I welcome the decision of the report to stand firmly on the side of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Late payment is a massive economic problem in commercial transactions within the EU.
I support the 30-day payment deadline as standard proposed in the report and also the introduction of a general upper limit of 60 days.
I find it incomprehensible that, in many Member States, payments of public money in connection with transactions with public administrations are delayed.
I voted in favour of Mrs Weiler's report because I believe it is essential to safeguard the creditors of public administrations, which largely consist of small and medium-sized enterprises.
This measure will allow approximately EUR 180 billion of liquid funds to be put back into circulation: this is the amount of the overall debt owed by public administrations to businesses throughout the EU.
This is a truly important step because enterprises will be granted the automatic right to demand the payment of overdue interest and also obtain a fixed minimum amount of EUR 40 as compensation for the costs of recovering the debt.
Enterprises will also, in any case, be able to demand reimbursement of all reasonable costs incurred for this purpose.
Among the many proposals contained in the Small Business Act, the one regarding amendment of Directive 2000/35/EC was among the most urgent, in my opinion.
Late payments have become a routine practice for public authorities in many countries (and this certainly includes Italy).
If the European average is 180 days from the due date, we can only imagine the extremes of lateness in some cases and the consequences for those who manage small and medium-sized enterprises.
The paradox is that a State demands prompt payment of duties and taxes, handing out penalties and applying interest from the first day of lateness, but ignores its own commitments when it is the debtor.
The amendment we are voting for is very important, above all, at this time of severe economic difficulty, but it will not be enough on its own to resolve the problem.
If individual Member States do not amend their procedures for recovering debts from public authorities in order to make them shorter and more effective, the approved provisions will be ineffective.
The late payment of commercial transactions, whether between companies or between companies and public entities, is responsible for cash flow problems in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and, in turn, often contributes to further delays in payment, thus starting a vicious cycle that is difficult to counteract.
We are sure that the implementation of the new rules proposed here will represent an important step towards ending this situation and thus help companies to face this period of economic and financial crisis.
The proposed penalties are proportionate and necessary, and it is hoped that they will discourage the improper commercial practices that have been adopted by commercial operators.
It was essential that the resolution on the Late Payment Directive be accepted, and that is why I voted for the resolution.
The debate this morning also revealed that the effects of the crisis, which, in the recent past, did not spare our Member States, either, are still closely felt.
According to the impact assessment preceding the review, the authorities of several Member States are known for poor payment practices.
Finally, making life easier for SMEs can be at the forefront of our concerns in this regard as well.
I welcome the Commission's proposal tackling the problem of late payments which is becoming a serious issue, particularly in cross-border commercial transactions, because it violates legal security.
In order for the consequences of late payment to be such as to discourage it, it is necessary that fast-acting procedures for the recovery of undisputed outstanding debt related to late payment be introduced within the establishment of a culture of prompt payment.
The amending proposal, aimed at the enforcement of payment of such claims against an enterprise or a public authority via a broadly accessible on-line procedure, will be a positive step towards the simplified and speedier recovery of this kind of outstanding debt.
Outstanding debts represent a considerable financial risk, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
A lack of a payment moral, especially in times of crisis, can severely restrict liquidity.
The report tackles the problem of late payment, a problem that destabilises the market and, above all, damages small and medium-sized enterprises, for which I have a particular regard.
My vote in favour of the report should be seen as a hope for the birth of a new commercial culture which is more prone to timely payment, and in which late payment is considered as an unacceptable abuse of the client's position and a breach of contract, and not as a normal practice.
I voted for this legislation because I believe that better handled payment arrangements are beneficial to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and business culture in general.
These measures would not only encourage companies (particularly SMEs) to pay one another on time, thus reducing the risks of liquidity problems, but would also increase the credibility and, in turn, the competitiveness of such companies.
I voted in favour of Mrs Weiler's report, inasmuch as I believe that it is essential to establish a maximum ceiling under which enterprises must be paid..
This need is even more pressing and essential at these times of crisis.
Small and medium-sized enterprises, together with entrepreneurs, play a significant role in all our economies and are key generators of employment and income and drivers of innovation and growth.
Unfortunately, all too often recently, we have seen situations of companies that are owed several millions by public authorities but are unfortunately forced to close down or declare bankruptcy due precisely to these late payments.
I therefore hope that at the implementation stage, other factors are also considered, establishing a loosening of stability pact ties for public authorities and, at the same time, a gradual reduction in payment terms.
I hope that the directive is quickly transposed by the Member States so that it may be applied as soon as possible.
Late payments can result in financial difficulties, and even bankruptcy for some businesses, especially SMEs: according to the European Commission, late payments cost the European economy around EUR 180 billion every year.
Other studies talk about EUR 300 billion per year, an amount equivalent to the Greek public debt.
In the current economic climate, I am glad that the Council and Parliament have been able to agree from the start on an ambitious review of European legislation in this area.
We were successful in making sure the final text is inspired by the many improvements voted for in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, in particular: higher legal interest rates payable in case of delay; for business to business transactions, a default 30-day rule and an extension to 60 days which can be prolonged under certain conditions; for public institutions, a maximum of 60 days; greater flexibility for public health institutions and for public medical and social institutions; and finally, a simplification of the compensation for recovery costs (a flat rate of EUR 40).
I would like to congratulate Mrs Weiler on her outstanding work.
The European Parliament has given the green light to new laws to limit late payment by public authorities to their suppliers, the majority of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
This new directive, which will now be implemented in national legal systems within 24 months of its adoption, will therefore benefit the entire European economy.
in writing. - Given that late payment is a phenomenon with numerous and interlinked causes, it can only be combated with a wide range of complementary measures.
Parliament therefore considers that a purely legalistic approach with the aim of improving remedies for late payment is necessary, but not sufficient.
The Commission's 'hard' approach with a focus on harsh sanctions and disincentives must be broadened to include 'soft' measures with a focus on providing positive incentives to combat late payment.
Italy is the country where enterprises suffer most due to late payment by public authorities, with an average period for payment to suppliers of 180 days as opposed to the European average of 67 days.
This leads to financial problems, a drastic reduction in investment opportunities and a loss of competitiveness, particularly for SMEs.
The directive we have voted for today discourages debtors from paying late and allows creditors to protect their interests effectively against such lateness, introducing the right to legal interest caused by late payment even when not specified in the contract.
These new rules on payments will mean that companies will regain their market competitiveness and no jobs will be lost.
By adopting with a resounding majority the report by my colleague, Barbara Weiler, on the proposal for a directive on late payments, the European Parliament has introduced balanced and clear rules which promote solvency, innovation and jobs.
Moreover, the agreement that we should get with the Council will allow a speedy entry into force of the directive and transposition by Member States as early as January 2011.
Over recent years, late payments have become an increasingly important burden in the financial management of businesses.
The statistics are alarming, above all, with regard to Italy, where the average payment is made at 186 days, peaking at 800 days in regional government with regard to the health sector.
It is a real disgrace, which has very often forced many SMEs to close.
Through this report, we are taking a great step forward by setting 60 days as the limit for payments from the public sector to the private sector.
Of course, the adoption of this legislation will not solve the problem as if by magic, but it definitely represents a starting point to set off a virtuous cycle, above all, with regard to dealings with public authorities.
I hope that the Member States, above all Italy, transpose the legislation very quickly.
This report has made a significant contribution to resolving the problem of late payments in commercial transactions between companies or between companies and public entities.
In this context, I welcome the legislative proposal, whose stipulation of a general deadline of 30 days for paying for transactions between companies and between companies and public entities - with the latter able to benefit from 60 days in exceptional cases - garnered widespread support in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), of which I am a member.
In my opinion, this measure equates to a strong boost for the economic activity of small and medium-sized enterprises, which often see their economic performance seriously damaged because of bureaucratic obstacles.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just voted on the revised directive on combating late payments in commercial transactions.
After all, from now on, Member States and governments will themselves have to lead by example.
This is a question of credibility, that is, a question of European institutions in future being required to comply with the same legal deadlines as everybody else.
The fact that the directive clearly stipulates that any contractual deviation from standard payment terms will only be possible for objective and fair reasons will be an important factor in its enforcement.
To conclude, I hope that the fixed compensation in respect of recovery costs will force late payers onto the straight and narrow path and, better still, keep them there.
I voted in favour of Mrs Weiler's report on combating late payment in commercial transactions.
Late payments represent a frequent event in Europe that is damaging to enterprises, particularly small enterprises.
A need has therefore emerged to strengthen existing legal measures by undertaking to combat late payment to support companies, particularly SMEs, and establish exact terms and appropriate penalties for those who are in breach.
I voted in favour of this report, as poverty is a very serious problem which affects 85 million of our fellow Europeans, so no one should remain indifferent to it.
We need a systemic approach that addresses and resolves the causes of the problems, nipping incipient problems in the bud.
In view of this, ensuring that those who are vulnerable in our society receive a minimum income for living and are given immediate responses to enable them to get out of this situation is not only a necessity, but also a requirement that we should endorse, and one that must be achieved within a framework of responsibility and exigency.
The EU has shown its commitment to combating poverty in Europe within the framework of initiatives promoted for 2010, the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, and with regard to achieving the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.
Considering the severity of the economic and social crisis and its impact on the increase in poverty and social exclusion, some vulnerable population groups such as women, children, old people and young people have experienced the negative effects of the situation more keenly.
In this situation, even though a minimum income may constitute an appropriate system for protecting such categories, it does not take into account the principle of subsidiarity and, therefore, the fact that this subject is the responsibility of individual Member States.
Because inequalities exist between wages and social levels in Europe, it is difficult to establish a minimum common income threshold.
I believe that it would instead be useful to encourage individual Member States to improve policy responses to combating poverty, promoting active inclusion, an adequate income, access to quality services and a fair redistribution of wealth.
The EU, for its part, has suggested a 25% reduction in the number of people living in poverty by 2020 and an allocation of 0.7% of gross national income to development aid.
Moreover, the European Parliament is encouraging, by adopting this report, the active inclusion of disadvantaged groups and providing effective economic and social cohesion.
I would like to mention the large contribution made by Romania to the UN programmes for combating poverty, amounting to EUR 250 million.
As development aid must be reciprocal, my country will continue to observe its commitments.
This is why we need to adopt measures at European and national level, and minimum incomes are a good tool for ensuring that those who need them can live in dignity.
I voted for this report because, despite all the statements on combating poverty, European citizens continue to live in poverty, social inequalities have increased and the number of poor workers is also increasing.
Minimum income is one of the basic measures for combating poverty, helping to lift these people out of poverty and ensure their right to have a decent living.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that minimum income will only achieve its objective in combating poverty if the Member States take concrete actions to guarantee minimum income and implement national programmes for combating poverty.
Furthermore, in some Member States, minimum income schemes do not meet the relative poverty threshold.
Therefore, the European Commission should address good and bad practices in the evaluation of national action plans.
Almost 300 000 families in Romania receive a guaranteed minimum income from the state, under a law which has already been in force since 2001, and for which a fiscal effort of almost EUR 300 million is made available.
Against the backdrop of the current economic crisis, whose impact is especially being felt by citizens from those countries less developed economically, the recommendation made by the European Parliament for a minimum income scheme to be introduced in all Member States provides an obvious solution.
Over 85 000 people are currently living below the poverty line in the European Union.
In the context of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, I welcome the political commitment taken by the European Parliament to ensure economic and social cohesion that is strong and effective.
The Figueiredo report points out that introducing a minimum income at national level is one of the most effective ways of tackling poverty.
However, I am against having a minimum income at European Union level.
The Structural Funds, too, play an essential role in tackling social exclusion.
It should remain a strong instrument of the cohesion policy during the 2014-2020 period.
I voted in favour of this extremely good report, because it insists on the need to take specific measures to eliminate poverty and social exclusion, by promoting a fair redistribution of income and wealth, thereby guaranteeing an adequate income and giving real meaning to the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
It considers that social objectives should form an integral part of the crisis exit strategy and that job creation must be a priority for the European Commission and the Member State governments, as the first step towards reducing poverty.
It considers that adequate minimum income schemes must set minimum incomes at a level equivalent to at least 60% of median income in the Member State concerned.
We, the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament (Dan Jørgensen, Christel Schaldemose, Britta Thomsen and Ole Christensen), have voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the role of minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in Europe.
We believe that all EU Member States should adopt poverty targets and introduce minimum income schemes.
At the same time, we believe that these targets and schemes should be adapted to the circumstances of the individual Member States.
The current economic crisis has had an enormous impact on increasing unemployment, on unchecked impoverishment, and on the social exclusion of people all over Europe.
Poverty and social exclusion have attained unacceptable levels: almost 80 million Europeans are living below the poverty line, 19 million of whom are children - the equivalent of almost two in 10 children - and many others are facing serious obstacles in terms of access to jobs, education, housing, and social and financial services.
Unemployment has also reached unprecedented levels in all the Member States, with a European average of 21.4% in which one in five young people is unemployed.
I agree that there needs to be a minimum wage in every Member State, accompanied by a social reintegration strategy and access to the labour market.
Economic and social cohesion is a fundamental prerequisite of any common policy, in Europe as in smaller contexts.
Public resources put to use in this context are, without doubt a medium-term investment since, if they are well distributed, they trigger instances of growth which feed themselves.
The first situation, relating to social welfare, is where a worker is unable to earn enough to lead a dignified life due to physical or mental disabilities, or other related reasons.
In these two situations, the public sector can and must intervene, leaving an incentive to hard work to be created in the others - and never the other way around.
The proportion of poor employees is growing hand in hand with the proliferation of precarious, low paid jobs.
All these factors add up to the EU facing a poverty problem exacerbated not only by the recession, but also by the anti-social policies implemented by right-wing governments.
The minimum income can guarantee social protection for broad groups of the population who are now living in poverty.
This minimum income has an absolutely paramount role to play in preventing tragic situations caused by poverty and in halting social exclusion.
I believe that action needs to be taken at both European and national level to protect consumers against unfair terms for repaying loans and credit cards and to establish terms for accessing loans which will prevent households from getting into excessive debt and, consequently, from facing poverty and social exclusion.
In Europe, 20 Member States have got national legislation which sets a minimum wage and differences between countries can be very substantial.
Thus, the minimum wage in Luxembourg is approximately EUR 1 682, whereas in Bulgaria, it is only EUR 123.
That is why the European Parliament has reiterated its call for a European minimum income.
We feel it is important to point out that guaranteeing a minimum income should naturally be accompanied by an overall social strategy including access to basic services such as healthcare, access to accommodation, education, lifelong learning, and this for all ages and in a way that is suited to each country.
MEPs have highlighted that the real aim of minimum income schemes should not only be to assist but also to support beneficiaries so as to enable them to move from a situation of social exclusion to a working life.
Certain Member States, such as France, have played a pioneering role by creating a 'minimum guaranteed income' 20 years ago.
However, experience has taught us that this system can generate adverse effects and, for example, encourage idleness in some.
That is why the Union must consider measures which, like the French revenu de solidarité active, or earned income supplement, create a sense of responsibility in recipients and encourage them to seek employment, which is the first real element of social inclusion.
In this European year 2010 for combating poverty, I am convinced that a framework directive on minimum income could have served as a reference text for national policies and legislation.
I believe this was the most effective way to reduce poverty and to bring 20 million people out of poverty by 2020.
As a reminder, 80 million people are living below the poverty line in Europe.
I voted for this report because I believe that a reasonable minimum income must be guaranteed to ensure a decent level of social protection, in particular, for the most vulnerable groups of people who have been hit hard by the austerity policies implemented by European governments during the current economic and financial crisis.
More social benefits require more money from the state, and as this does not create wealth, it can only be achieved by increasing tax revenue.
The fight against poverty must be carried out by employment policies and economic competitiveness.
If Portugal were not seeing several companies closing week after week, it would not be seeing so many Portuguese people unemployed and living in poverty.
I therefore believe that the fight against poverty should be carried out by stimulating the economy and the market, not by way of subsidies, which will always have to be funded by taxes which, as we know, stifle taxpayers and the economy and are an obstacle to economic competitiveness.
As I said in this House a year ago, I advocate a new concept of sociality within the European Union which is able to ensure that everyone has a basic standard of living.
In a Europe that is socially conscious, fair, evolved and cohesive, it is imperative to ensure measures that eradicate and minimise the risk of social dumping and the degradation of living conditions for its people when faced with the devastating effects of the current economic crisis.
I understand that minimum standards are needed in the areas of healthcare, education and social pensions, and even at the level of pay, ensuring greater uniformity in employment conditions.
In the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, I welcome this report for its contribution to encouraging all Member States to fulfil their responsibilities for active inclusion by rectifying social inequality and marginalisation.
I would like to stress that there should be a realistic balance and respect for the subsidiarity principle.
I would stress the importance of the adoption by the plenary sitting of the European Parliament of this report proposing the introduction of minimum income schemes in all EU Member States, for which I was responsible.
It was adopted in this Chamber by 437 votes to 162, with 33 abstentions, and has emerged as a specific measure of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
As this report says, 'introducing minimum income schemes in all EU Member States - consisting of specific measures supporting people (children, adults and the elderly) whose income is insufficient by means of a financial contribution and facilitated access to essential public services - is one of the most effective ways to combat poverty, guarantee an adequate standard of living and foster social integration'.
The adopted resolution argues that minimum income schemes must fix minimum incomes at a level equivalent to at least 60% of median income in the Member State concerned.
It calls attention to the increasing number of working poor and to the need to tackle this new challenge, and it calls for a fair redistribution of income.
in writing. - Even though the European Union is one of the richest areas in the world, one still finds a high percentage of European citizens facing the problem of income poverty, limiting their ability to afford the basics in relation to food, health, energy and education.
Poverty affects 85 million people in Europe.
Moreover, following the current financial and economic downturn, there is a higher risk of poverty mainly affecting children, the young and the elderly, putting many households at a higher risk, reducing their access to medicine, healthcare, schools and employment.
More funds have to be allocated to different studies and analyses relating to poverty and social exclusion, comparing the systems of the 27 Member States and identifying which policy works best.
We have to continue combating poverty and social exclusion in Europe and around the world by taking urgent action and, more importantly, by working in solidarity despite the different fiscal or political pressures we might face.
Currently in Europe, 17% of the population, equivalent to around 85 million people, are living below the poverty line.
Behind these figures, extreme poverty is the most worrying and is making progress, especially in these times of recession, which is why a minimum income is crucial.
As 2010 is the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, and following the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, we voted, in the European Parliament, for a resolution that calls for a European minimum income equal to 60% of average income in each Member State.
Our report emphasises that introducing minimum income schemes in all Member States is one of the most effective measures to fight against poverty, ensure a decent standard of living and encourage social integration, and I welcome the adoption of this resolution.
I supported the report inviting Member States to tackle poverty by introducing minimum income schemes on the model of the RSA ['revenu de solidarité active' - earned income supplement], formerly RMI ['revenu minimum d'insertion' - basic guaranteed income], in France.
The text proposes that this kind of minimum income amounts to 60% of the average salary for each country and, above all, is part of a comprehensive strategy for integration, with a lasting return to work and access to public services, primarily accommodation.
The text was adopted, but unfortunately, the alternative versions proposed by the left-leaning political groups, calling for a binding framework directive for implementing the minimum income throughout the Union, were rejected.
The position that we have taken in favour of these minimum income schemes is therefore encouraging, but is likely to be insufficient.
We cannot allow our children and grandchildren to live under the threat of hunger, unemployment and social exclusion.
We must guarantee future generations decent wage levels, career stability, access to public services and social integration throughout their lives - from the earliest age until retirement.
in writing. - There are an estimated 85 million people throughout the EU suffering from or at risk of poverty and I believe that at a European level, everything possible must be done in order to tackle it.
Just recently, approximately 5 million jobs have been lost, which has caused poverty and social exclusion in Member States.
I firmly support this report because I believe that urgent measures are needed to reintegrate those affected into the labour market, as well as the guarantee of a minimum income which will be able to ensure a decent standard of living and a life worthy of human dignity.
I think that we must develop relevant indicators to enable us to introduce minimum income schemes in Member States, thereby ensuring an adequate standard of living fostering social integration and promoting social and economic cohesion throughout the entire European Union.
One effective tool for fighting poverty is guaranteeing citizens of the European Union a minimum income which includes salaries, pensions and benefits.
We should pay particular attention to social groups which are particularly susceptible to poverty and social exclusion, which include, in particular, disabled people, large families and single-parent families, the chronically ill and the elderly.
An analysis of the experience of several Member States shows us what an important role minimum incomes play in fighting poverty and social exclusion, and that is why I voted for Mrs Figueiredo's report.
Nowadays, it is essential to include the prevention and combating of poverty and social exclusion in other EU policies with the aim of guaranteeing the respect for fundamental human rights, universal access to essential public services and the right to health, to education and to vocational training.
All this requires social sustainability of macro-economic policies, which implies changing monetary priorities and policies, including in the Stability and Growth Pact, and also all competition policies, internal market policies, and budgetary and fiscal policies.
This report uses the term 'minimum income', which is a controversial term defined as an instrument that makes it possible to accompany beneficiaries in moving from situations of social exclusion to active life; it also underlines the importance of broader policies that also take into consideration other needs: healthcare, education, training, social services and housing.
I voted in favour of this report because I support the idea of the need for a European coordination strategy.
It is difficult to establish a minimum threshold in the various Member States when great differences exist between wages and the cost of living in general.
The contents of the Treaty of Lisbon, the provisions of the 2020 EU strategy and the principles included in the Millennium Development Goals do not seem to be reflected, even in terms of future prospects, in the disconcerting reality, which is that great numbers of people live in misery even today.
In Europe alone, nearly 80 million citizens live in conditions of poverty, 19 million of whom are children.
The ambitious policies that the international community has set itself for poverty eradication have all too often proved ineffective and difficult to implement or amounted only to social welfare measures.
The objectives must instead be achieved by considering a more structural approach, evaluating specific initiatives coordinated at European level that have an impact on income, on social services and on healthcare with the aim of alleviating the impact of a financial crisis that has hit those who are most at risk in the labour market, namely women, older women in particular, and young people.
I believe that the valuation of European initiatives aiming to establish a minimum income might represent one of the ways for combating poverty provided the principle of subsidiarity is observed.
The implementation of minimum income in all the countries of the European Union is a pivotal measure for combating poverty.
I am therefore voting in favour of this important report.
More cross-cutting social policies are therefore needed at a European level in order to ensure a fairer distribution of wealth.
This is an important part of the EU's role.
A minimum income for citizens is a remedy, not a solution.
In the resolution, I support the Commission's call to include State actions within a framework of European coordination and ensure that the minimum income is accompanied by an integrated approach that includes healthcare, education and housing.
I therefore abstained because of the fact that the aspects of proper monitoring of the system that I have described call it into question, both from a financial and a moral point of view.
Nevertheless, experiences, such as the Portuguese one, of awarding minimum incomes without any truly effective monitoring, but with an enormous number of people who are registered as benefit claimants who could and should work, but neither work nor try to, constitute a perversion of the logic that should be contemplated.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the role of minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in Europe, because I agree with most of the requests and opinions it contains; for example, the fact that Member States, the Council and the Commission need to implement 'concrete measures to eradicate poverty and social exclusion' and that 'combating poverty begins with the creation of decent, sustainable jobs for groups at a disadvantage on the labour market'.
In European society, the sustained trend towards the feminisation of poverty shows that the existing framework of social security systems and the various social, economic and employment policy measures adopted in the EU are not designed for the needs of women or for abolishing the existing disparities relating to women's employment.
I voted in favour of Mrs Figueiredo's report.
The solidarity on which the European model of social market economy is based and the coordination of national responses are vital.
It is therefore essential that the European Union speak with a single strong voice and have a common vision, subsequently allowing individual states a choice over the concrete application of measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
In the social market economy enshrined in and fostered by the treaty, the public authorities must implement settlement measures with the aim of accelerating and facilitating the achievement of balance in order to prevent difficulties for the public or at least minimise them.
We need social policies to protect families, limiting inequality and the impact and the effects of the crisis.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution - Amendment 3 - (Article 157(4) of the Rules of Procedure) to replace non-legislative motion for a resolution on the role of minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in Europe.
This provision, especially in the present times of economic crisis, does not conflict with the principle of a social market economy, a principle to which I subscribe unreservedly.
Moreover, the already protracted financial and economic crisis that we are experiencing has exacerbated the poverty of people within Europe, creating a new wave of poor in some countries, such as Portugal, and even affecting what is commonly referred to as the middle class.
The allocation of a minimum income is an important social measure with a significant impact in economic terms, and many see it as a moral obligation.
Poverty is a reality which affects people whose income is insufficient to provide them with an acceptable living, with the number of people in this situation on the increase due to the current crisis.
In 2008, 17% of the EU's population (approximately 85 million people) were exposed to the threat of poverty.
The at-risk-of-poverty rate for those in employment was 8% on average in the EU-27, with the highest rate again in Romania (17%).
I voted for the need to adopt a system for calculating the minimum income (equivalent to at least 60% of median income in the Member State concerned) in every Member State, consisting of specific measures supporting people whose income is insufficient with a funding supply and by facilitating access to services.
This step could be one of the most effective ways to combat poverty, guarantee an adequate standard of living and foster social integration.
That is why the introduction at European level of a minimum subsistence income or its expansion to all Member States is important.
Eighty-five million people are threatened with poverty in Europe.
The economic crisis that we are going through is making young people (of whom one in five is unemployed), women and single parents even more vulnerable.
Precarious conditions among workers are also increasing: the number of those who are affected by poverty is currently 19 million.
Whereas 2010 was declared 'European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion', a recent Eurobarometer survey on citizens' opinion of the EU showed that 74% of them expect the EU to play an important role in this area.
I supported the resolution on the role of a minimum income in tackling poverty and in promoting an inclusive society in Europe.
With our proposal for a framework directive on a minimum income, Parliament today had the chance to provide Europe with an essential tool for truly combating poverty and for giving every young person, adult and elderly person the right to an income high enough to lift them out of poverty and to enable them to live in dignity at last.
However, due to its cowardice and political inconsistency, the European right will carry the heavy responsibility of the failure of the EU 2020 strategy and will cause yet more disillusion among our fellow citizens and among all those organisations that fight day in day out for the most vulnerable.
Such negative situations would certainly affect population groups less well-equipped for survival, particularly non-EU families who often have to make do with sharing small and therefore low cost accommodation with one another.
Poverty and social exclusion are a manifestation of lack of respect for human dignity.
The most important factors are education and ensuring conditions for development, since these are solutions that would teach people how to deal with the problem of poverty themselves by using their own potential, supported by systemic solutions.
The effects of the crisis, namely increased unemployment and fewer job opportunities, have been leaving many people in a difficult situation.
Therefore, and taking into account Parliament's commitment to participate in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, I believe the minimum income scheme based on 60% of median income in the Member State concerned is an important contribution to economic and social cohesion.
I voted in favour for the above reasons, and because I believe that the report highlights the need for concrete action towards more effective social and economic cohesion that respects subsidiarity.
I voted against this report because it turns budgetary consolidation by the Member States on its head and contains the usual flowery Communist dross about inter-State transfers.
Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the declarations on poverty reduction, social inequality has increased - approximately 85 million EU residents are at risk of poverty.
This is a huge problem for Lithuania, since 20% of our population is at risk of poverty.
We need a strong employment policy which would stimulate growth and competitiveness in the European social market economy and would prevent macro-economic imbalance and guarantee social inclusion.
The increase in precarious employment and low wages means that the percentage of workers at risk of poverty is rising.
According to EU reports, the incomes of more than 20% of full-time workers in Lithuania are less than 60% of average incomes, whereas the EU average is 14%.
Mostly young people leave Lithuania, not just because of a lack of money and work (last year, unemployment among Lithuania's young people reached almost 30%), but also because they feel abandoned and powerless against decisions taken that have an impact on their daily lives.
This must change.
in writing. - Despite efforts around the globe and commitments from many international institutions, the EU included, the fight against poverty is still far from won.
The percentage of people living in poverty in Europe increased from 16% to 17% between 2005 and 2008.
Across Europe, there is consensus among governments and people alike that we must fight to eradicate poverty.
As we consider the Europe 2020 commitments, we must once again think about what measures can be taken to fight poverty.
I support the Figueiredo report, which calls for a re-evaluation of the EU's commitments to fighting poverty and social exclusion and for the inclusion of challenging but achievable and clear objectives in the Europe 2020 Agenda.
Around 85 million people in the EU are currently facing the threat of poverty.
This includes various different groups: children and young people up to the age of 17 have a higher risk of poverty, which, in specific terms, means that one in five children and young people are victims of poverty.
In 2008, the at-risk-of-poverty rate for people aged 65 years and over stood at 19%.
If we just look at the number of people receiving unemployment benefits, there are 23 million people who need to receive unemployment benefits in order to be able to live with dignity.
I voted in favour of this report as it supports the continuation of the work carried out by the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis which, since its creation, has reached a conclusion and made specific recommendations on certain points.
All the files opened or to be opened now, namely, the Europe 2020 strategy and new directives, economic governance, financial perspectives, regulation and supervision, reform of global governance and EU representation, should start by acknowledging the crisis of the current model.
The massive demonstrations in Greece, France, Italy and other countries are blatant proof that the choices made by the capitalist system are rejected by the workers.
The EU 2020 strategy is critically important for the competitiveness, sustainability and social characteristics of the Union and I voted in favour of what the report says about directing more attention towards initiatives related to the energy, research and innovation sector, as well as health and education matters in the years ahead.
There have been a variety of factors in the current crisis: the speculative behaviour of the financial markets, and the development of internal demand over recent years based on consumer credit, among other things.
The future is part of fulfilling the content of this initiative.
In order to do so, Europe needs to overcome the problem of the ageing population.
It must adopt measures to improve coordination between the different levels of governance, define a new model of economic growth that goes hand in hand with human and social development and focus on European solidarity, improving competitiveness, quality, improving education, innovation, new technologies, and on knowledge.
I have therefore voted against the report.
I would like to underline that the recession was further exacerbated by the fact that the various national economic recovery plans are insufficiently coordinated, because it is highly likely that with coordination at European Union level, it would be possible to have a greater impact than that which can be achieved with most programmes at national level.
According to the Europe 2020 strategy, the European Union has committed to combating unemployment and increasing employment and reducing poverty and social exclusion, but this strategy must be a concerted effort - part of the crisis management and post-crisis strategic planning process.
I agree with the position of Parliament that this European Union strategic objective should also be pursued by cooperating closely with national governments, social partners and civil society, and that the European Parliament should be involved to a greater extent in its execution.
I am, in fact, convinced that Europe needs radical transformation to double its growth potential and this result can only be achieved by greater coordination of Member State's economic and fiscal policies.
Before this, however, I consider it necessary to review the financial regulation sector that has proved not only fallacious but one of the main causes of the crisis.
Even before this, we need to implement policies to support SMEs, the driving force and economic heart of Europe, above all, by promoting fiscal packages and incentives that allow easier access to credit.
I voted for this report as I agree that the Commission should take responsibility for ensuring the monitoring and funding of projects in the following areas: new investment in research and the development and deployment of renewable energy, in energy efficiency, especially in the European building stock, as well as in resource-use efficiency more generally; strengthening the European energy network by interconnecting national networks and distributing power from major centres of renewable energy production to consumers, as well as introducing new forms of energy storage and the European High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) 'super-grid'; promoting EU space-based infrastructures in the area of radio navigation and earth observation in order to foster the provision of new EU services and the development of innovative applications, as well as to facilitate implementation of EU legislation and policies; providing fast Internet access throughout the Union, ensuring the rapid execution of the EU's digital agenda and providing all citizens with reliable, free access.
in writing. - This report takes a detailed and thorough look at the causes of the economic crisis and the developments that have been made at EU level in order to prevent, pre-empt or at least diminish the impact of future crises.
The report also adds value to the current debate concerning the possible ways forward in this regard.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Berès report because of my support for the vast majority of its contents.
I agree it is necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime.
I voted against the report, because the left cannot accept a report born of compromise between the socialists and the European right, a report which does not get to the heart of the problem, namely, the basic causes of the economic and social crisis.
Unfortunately, however, the spirit and letter of the text remain faithful to disastrous neoliberal policies which work to the detriment of the workers, lead to recession and unemployment and are exacerbating the crisis.
We need to avoid the mistakes that were made in the past and recognise the phenomena that had not been identified before, but, above all, we need to be thorough in establishing the relationships between the real economy and finance, protecting employment and general welfare from shocks of this kind.
We voted in favour of this report, but we voted against, and are strongly opposed to, the recommendation for the introduction of a financial transaction tax and the distribution of the debt amongst the countries of the euro area.
The first reason is that its authors have done a wonderful job, reflected in an extensive analysis of the causes and impact of the economic crisis on the global economy, on the one hand, and on the European economy, on the other.
The second reason why I voted for it is that the report contains a series of important recommendations featuring in the section of the report entitled 'The future - a Europe of added value'.
We must acknowledge that a short-term, narrow focus on profit has led to the loss of a huge number of jobs in Europe in industries offering high added value, while creating precarious and poor quality jobs.
I welcome this vote for it was important to mention at last the issue of sanctions for non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), which the Member States all too often happily disregard.
I voted for the report on the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations concerning measures and initiatives to be taken, because it sets out concrete measures for overcoming the economic and social crisis through the construction of a genuine European social market economy, with a view to sustained growth, employment and social inclusion.
In a large area that has borders open to free movement and an internal market, it has become unacceptable to allow the resistance of a system of mediation, monitoring and supervision based on the power of individual states, which is small and limited in scope given the situation in Europe and the rest of the world.
The strengthening of economic governance, financial supervision and the power to coordinate policies and economic and monetary matters on the part of the EU institutions will ensure greater stability and a greater ability to act swiftly and efficiently.
I would like to highlight the recognition of the importance of the Europe 2020 strategy, where research and innovation are central to the competitiveness of companies and job creation.
I voted against this report because the rapporteur's initial proposal has been distorted, and positions have been included that urge the application of measures that were at the root of the crisis.
in writing. - (FR) As is usual when faced with the economic, social and financial crisis in this Chamber, the report by Mrs Berès overlooks the main issues and concentrates on saving the system rather than fundamentally calling it into question.
Beyond the loss of millions of jobs across the European continent and the various threats to the Euro, the recession has had the effect of highlighting the absence of strong and harmonised economic governance within the European Union and the failings in financial supervision.
So if I voted in favour of this resolution, it is because it intends to remedy these ills and promotes the introduction of a tax on financial transactions which would have the advantage of limiting speculation on financial transactions, of regulating the markets, of financing public assets, but also of reducing public deficit.
This ambitious text proposes many ideas and solutions for coming out of the recession, securing a sustainable recovery and preventing similar financial crises from happening again through governance and supervision mechanisms.
With this vote, the European Parliament proves that political responsibility and ambition can go hand-in-hand.
Priority is given to employment, since the economic recovery is in danger of taking place without a reduction in unemployment.
Finally, the text reminds us of the need for a tax on financial transactions so that those responsible for the recession are made to contribute at last.
in writing. - The Fine Gael MEPs do not support the proposal for a directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base but did not see this as grounds for voting against this important report as a whole.
I agree it is necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime.
The Berès report covers issues of importance to the stability of the euro area, which I voted for.
However, I abstained in the final vote, because I believe that, firstly, a general and simplified approach is being taken to the economic and financial problems of the EU and to the measures that need to be taken and, secondly, it refers to the Commission proposals on sanctions for undisciplined Member States, such as other fiscal or financial measures, which the European Parliament has not yet debated and on which it has not yet reached any conclusions.
The International Monetary Fund recently made public an analysis of the current state of the world economy, showing that the recovery process is still fragile and patchy.
In effect, we are facing two different scenarios: on the one hand, a stage of strong growth for emerging countries and, on the other, high levels of unemployment and an overall slow rate of recovery in economically more advanced States.
I therefore believe that it would be useful to embark on a path with the aim of guaranteeing appropriate solidity of public finances to maintain confidence in the markets and ensure that the public can again believe in the worth of the European project.
I voted in favour of the report by the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis, which represents a constructive compromise between all the groups involved.
Our national economies are closely intertwined - national egotisms will only intensify the crisis.
There is a need to reduce the taxation on work in order to strengthen investment and thus, Europe's competitiveness.
My vote in favour of the report is entirely due to the new agreement obtained thanks, above all, to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
The draft initially tabled by the rapporteur was a clear ideological provocation and therefore had to be altered in its entirety.
According to the International Monetary Fund, the priorities are to correct the remaining fragilities in the financial sector, ensure strong growth in demand and employment, maintain debt sustainability, work for greater equilibrium in world growth, and to resolve the challenges deriving from widespread and volatile movements of capital.
The report, in which the contingent necessity of ensuring adequate solidity in the public finances to maintain confidence in the financial and real markets is recognised, is perfectly in tune with the last budget approved by the Italian Government, which aims to reduce the deficit to below the 3% threshold.
The constitution of the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis (CRIS) was aimed at diagnosing the factors that led to the crisis, determining what the EU failed to notice which meant that the crisis was unexpected, and devising future measures and initiatives to avoid similar situations and to be able to revitalise economies and definitively halt the crisis scenarios that persist in some Member States.
I believe that the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis has carried out its tasks well and that in this document, it sets out new paths, measures and initiatives which will allow the EU to be much better prepared for any crises that might occur in the future.
I support Mrs Berès's report, which calls for more Europe and not less, for more efficiency and less bureaucracy, and for one European Union voice on the international stage.
Despite the return to growth, we should not be mistaken in believing that the recession is entirely behind us, and, above all, that we have solved its causes.
In particular, the non-transparency of financial products and high-risk packaged structures, together with the United States' soft currency policy and conflicts of interest in terms of ratings, gave rise to a global financial crisis.
The Member States of the EU and their populations have plenty of food for thought in connection with the resultant economic crisis, with its growing rate of unemployment and social service sector cuts.
As a member of this Special Committee, I took an active part in the proceedings and contributed to the production of this report.
Europe must once again attract investment and production, establishing itself as a worldwide model for innovation and growth.
Public and private financial institutions must do their best to ensure that the markets work to benefit the real economy and small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to put them in a position to contribute to the economic recovery and growth in Europe.
I abstained on the Berès report, because the proposals on European economic governance do not address the structural problems of incomplete economic union and do not alleviate the asymmetry between 'truncated' economic union and full monetary union.
There are no strategic guidelines whatsoever to safeguard balanced growth and stimulate the competitiveness of all Member States.
I voted for this report because I believe that the Commission should ensure the steering and financing of projects in the following fields: (1) the research, development and deployment of renewable energy; (2) strengthening the European energy network, along with using new forms of energy storage and the European High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) 'super-grid'; (3) promoting space infrastructure in the EU in the field of radio navigation and earth observation; (4) providing fast Internet access; (5) developing EU leadership in the field of e-Health; (6) completing the development of, and creating common standards for, electric mobility.
In terms of financial regulation, Parliament should seek to establish a system of regulation and supervision that does not leave out any financial market, instrument or institution.
I believe that to do this, as the report rightly says, Europe must immediately set up strong and authoritative bodies that are able to offer standard governance for economic policies in all States.
I am convinced that Europe can no longer stand by and watch Member States come up with fragmented and inconsistent responses to economic crises whose consequences are a real threat to the growth potential of our economies.
The process of Member States converting the EU 2020 strategy into national programmes must help establish a more competitive, social and sustainable European Union, which places citizens and environmental protection at the heart of policy making.
Member States' priorities must be focused on high quality jobs and ensuring that labour markets operate properly, as well as guaranteeing the existence of appropriate social conditions with a view to improving employment performance.
The rate of unemployment among the EU population is 10% on average, reaching 20% in some countries and more than 40% for young people.
I voted to support the need for Member States to draw up viable programmes which will boost the labour market by improving incentives and conditions for workers, while also making the incentives more attractive for employers to recruit and retain staff.
Frankly, the first version was promising, in terms both of its analysis of the causes of the crisis and of many of the proposals for overcoming it.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree that the Commission should take responsibility for ensuring the monitoring and funding of projects, particularly in the areas of new investment in research and the development and deployment of renewable energy, and also the provision of fast Internet access throughout the Union, ensuring the rapid execution of the EU's digital agenda.
In terms of financial regulation, Parliament should seek to establish a system of regulation and supervision that does not leave out any financial markets, instruments or institutions.
in writing. - I am glad the report was adopted by an overwhelming majority but overall, because the attempt by ALDE to weaken the paragraph on the financial transaction tax failed and the text based on our amendment, calling for the introduction of an FTT at EU level as a first step, passed.
I welcome the creation of the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis, as well as this report.
However, I find it regrettable that the European Parliament is not more involved in this strategic exercise of seeking solutions to the crisis: it is desirable for both the European Parliament and the national parliaments to be more closely involved in the future.
Second, territorial specificities and the asymmetrical impact of the crisis should be taken into account.
As is stressed in the report, in fact, the strength of the cohesion policy in establishing a link between recovery and long-term growth is exactly as follows: establishing strategic guidelines, and giving the Member States and regions cause to implement them, and grant the instruments to pursue the objectives.
Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has become a victim not just of the financial and social crisis.
Both in Lithuania and throughout Europe, we must regain public confidence in our financial and political institutions and establish a viable and sustainable financial system, which would offer protection from future crises.
I welcome the fact that the special committee stresses the importance of cohesion instruments crucial for providing assistance to the EU regions that need it most.
They may help us overcome the consequences of the crisis by supporting essential investment in infrastructure, businesses and job creation.
It is important for any long-term EU investment strategy to be concerned with maintaining competitiveness and strengthening the internal market (one of the main engines of European growth).
in writing. - Recent years have shown how our economies are interdependent, and the problems that can be caused by lack of legislation regulation or cohesion of economies across Europe.
I therefore voted in favour of the recommendations concerning the measures and initiatives to be taken following the financial, economic and social crisis as present in the Berès report.
The Council, Commission and Parliament must work together to ensure that we build a stronger, more robust, global economy that works for the European Union as a whole.
The European Parliament has adopted today, Wednesday 20 October, the report by its Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis.
We in the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left voted against this report, because the proposals it contains are somewhat surreal and totally ignore the social rallies that have been taking place for several months in EU Member States against austerity plans, anti-social measures and the dismantling of social security systems and public services: these are the only measures envisaged to limit the Member States' budget deficits.
The very large majority (501 votes for) that voted for this report obviously does not understand the message of those citizens who have been protesting across Europe for several weeks against the austerity plans and their associated counter-reforms.
I voted in favour of the report that was presented and discussed here today, as it represents a step forward for the EU by advocating the establishment of an institution like the European Monetary Fund (EMF), and thus leading to the establishment of an overseer of sovereign debt developments to complement the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) as a mechanism of last resort for the Member States.
It is also worth highlighting the proposal to establish a high-level policy group chaired by the Commission with a mandate to study potential institutional changes within the ongoing economic governance reforms, including the possibility of creating a European Common Treasury (ECT), with the objective of endowing the EU with its own financing resources and reducing its dependence on national transfers, as well as producing a feasibility assessment in order to establish, in the long run, a system under which Member States may participate in the issuance of common European obligations.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this report.
The current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the existing economic governance model in the Union has not worked as effectively as it was envisaged.
I agree with the proposals given in the document that we must aim to better coordinate actions with and between Member States, particularly in order to prevent a repetition of the situation that came about recently.
It is crucial for Member States to apply in full the rules and decisions agreed at EU level, such as the rules and instruments of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The current economic crisis has demonstrated that coordination of economic policy has not worked in the Union, nor have the frameworks for governance, for economic supervision or for regulating financial services.
All this has sown instability and decline in Europe.
In this respect, I would like to highlight and express my thanks for the recommendations that accompany the proposal, which are aimed at: establishing a coherent and transparent framework for supervising macro-economic processes in the Union and in the Member States, and improving supervision; improving the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact; improving economic governance; establishing a strong mechanism for preventing and resolving excessive debt in the euro area; and revising the budgetary, financial and fiscal tools.
The financial crisis has indeed highlighted the lack of true political and economic coordination between Member States and the inefficacy of the various control instruments.
It is now therefore time for Europe to set up a more reliable legal framework that observes the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy while also implementing greater control over debt and public income, fiscal incentives for SMEs, internal market development and integration of labour markets.
Lastly, I agree with recommendation 3 on enhancing state coordination by means of annual euro area surveillance reports.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree that a coherent and transparent framework must be established for multilateral surveillance of macro-economic developments in the Union and in the Member States.
I would like to call for an annual debate between Parliament, the Commission, the Council and the representatives of national parliaments on the Stability and Convergence Programmes (SCPs) and the National Reform Programmes (NRPs), as well as on assessing national economic developments as part of the European Semester.
I would also like to call for the establishment, at a national level, of a mechanism to assess the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy priorities and the achievement of the relevant national targets included in the National Reform Programme in order to support the annual evaluation by the EU institutions.
I voted against the report which, for the sake of economic governance of the European Union, adopts a sovereign perception and policy on strict discipline in the Stability Pact and supports preventive sanctions to the detriment of the Member States 'in breach' of the Maastricht indictors.
It proposes the objective of budgetary stability and strict supervision of national budgets and ends up adopting harsh measures to the detriment of workers' incomes, pensions and labour and insurance rights.
The main risk factor is associated not so much with matters of monetary technique, where the European Central Bank is doing an excellent job, but with economic cohesion and the link with the real economy.
The problem really made itself felt during the crisis: the single currency makes less and less sense for a market that is still fragmentary and with fiscal policies that are not always sufficiently homogeneous.
Instead, it is useful to apply consistency and a systematic approach to economic action in the face of increasingly complex situations, where currency challenges are not the same as in the past and require different instruments and objectives where the responsibilities shouldered by the technicians must be backed by ongoing and consistent monitoring as well as political direction based on a considered view of the future and an eye to resolving contingent problems.
On other points, too, we have used our vote to express a different view.
The issue of economic governance at European Union level is a tricky matter and the reticence shown by some of its Member States with regard to new transfers of sovereignty are understandable.
Establishing a coherent, transparent framework supporting the multilateral monitoring of macro-economic trends in the European Union and Member States, along with consolidating fiscal supervision, as proposed within the document, marks a step forward in the right direction, even though it may entail a partial amendment to the Constitutional Treaty.
Overall, the recommendations in this document are important and address real issues, offering relevant solutions.
It is therefore important to support a more rigorous application of preventive measures and sanctions, as well as encouraging improved monitoring and economic governance through more accurate and comparable statistics on the policies and economic positions of the Member States, particularly in the euro area.
By adopting the resolution on economic governance, the European Parliament is reaffirming its main objectives for the negotiations on the Commission's six legislative proposals.
MEPs deplore the fact that implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact is inadequate and propose the creation of an effective mechanism of incentives and sanctions, as well as stressing the importance of investment in energy, research, innovation, healthcare and education.
To end the recession, we need to plan the required funding at European level, and the idea of own resources should be put into practice.
In addition, the income generated by this tax could help finance global public goods and reduce budget deficits.
This tax should be established on the largest possible basis, and certainly at European Union level to start with.
I voted for the Feio report, which is the result of successful negotiations between the political groups of the European Parliament, and is based on a broad consensus on the need to reinforce growth and employment policies, with a view to improving economic governance that will enable the crisis to be overcome and the European economy to recover.
This report by Mr Feio fleshes out Parliament's responsibility for the institutional consolidation of the EU for greater unification in Europe and in terms of the global economy, in the interests of the European public and their well-being.
The proposed recommendations are a very significant qualitative development in improving economic governance within the EU, highlighting the strengthening of rules to promote the stability and growth of the states and the Union, as well as mechanisms for preventing and also correcting and solving problems and challenges to the strategy for EU development.
The reliability of EU statistics is also an important element in providing structures and authorities with better capabilities for assessing and determining intervention.
The economic and financial crisis has clearly shown us that there is an urgent need to improve economic cooperation within the European Union.
To do this, the Stability and Growth Pact must be reinforced and expanded to include suitable and effective sanctioning options.
The object must be to make the monetary union and the euro durably strong and robust in order to be able to prevent a crisis like the one in Greece.
The Danish Liberal Party voted against one particular amendment to the Feio report, which recommends that a study be carried out into the advantages of establishing a European tax collection system.
The Danish Liberal Party voted in favour of the overall report, which was otherwise a well-balanced one.
in writing. - It is very important that the rules of economic governance are reinforced, especially in light of the economic crisis that many EU countries are still going through.
A need is clearly emerging for strong economic governance of the European Union, especially after what happened in Greece a few months ago.
Even now, however, we can state that there is an absolute need to identify rules for surveillance of economic policies, rules that are not mechanistic but realistic and sustainable, able to strengthen fiscal policy and improve European governance as a whole.
One observation which could be made during the recent period of economic and financial crisis was that monitoring and economic coordination at EU level needed to be strengthened significantly.
I voted for this report because I strongly support all eight recommendations made by the rapporteur with the intention of reflecting good governance and economic stability in the European Union.
The joint debate on the European Council, the G20, the report by the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis, and the report on European governance, have not produced clear guidelines or pertinent recommendations regarding the financial crisis.
Parliament should equip itself with far more stringent rules of procedure and abide by them.
It is through painstaking work that an institution earns its legitimacy within the European structure, not by ... (The explanation of vote was cut short pursuant to Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) Without rules or supervision, you cannot make any progress.
Applying the rules that we have imposed upon ourselves during this time of crisis, to improve coordination and surveillance in economic matters, is the least we must ask of ourselves and of the Member States.
The current financial and economic crisis has demonstrated that the EU needs increasingly strong economic and monetary governance so that the stability of the euro and the monetary union itself are not undermined.
Thus, the Europe 2020 strategy should seek to promote economic growth and create jobs, as the sharp fall in GDP, the drop in industrial production and the high numbers of unemployed are a major social and economic challenge which can only be overcome by strong, harmonious and united governance.
The economic, financial and social crisis has shown the limits of the European model of economic governance.
That is why we need an agreement at the next European Council on economic governance and on the Stability Pact.
There is an urgent need to adopt reforms that will enable us to take a big step forward in quality terms with respect to economic governance and to introduce transparent and targeted supervision instruments.
I am in favour of greater parliamentary involvement in the Union's economic governance and of the centralisation at European level of the exclusive supervision powers of the major cross-border financial institutions.
By fearfully concealing the glaring gaps in their budgets, Greece, Latvia and Hungary have shaken confidence in the euro.
The European Commission and the European Parliament must strictly and effectively react to any distortion of the facts and concealment of the truth.
In order to come out of this complicated economic situation, we must draw up not only regulations for supervision and statistics, but also a plan for overcoming the crisis.
We do not need mechanisms to tackle debt that are excessively automatic and pro-cyclical, which risk failing to meet the objective and, if anything, risk hindering actions to boost economic growth.
The results and benefits for the budget of important reforms in social and economic matters, above all, pensions reform, are not seen in the following financial year but, after a number of years in the medium and long term, in the sustainability of the public finances.
Therefore, we must give more and better consideration to the structural reforms required to stimulate competitiveness and economic growth in Europe.
Competitiveness brings economic growth and growth brings more tax revenues and effective financial consolidation.
There are no strategic guidelines whatsoever to safeguard balanced growth and invigorate competitiveness for all the Member States.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that: (1) a coherent and transparent framework for multilateral surveillance of macro-economic developments in the European Union and the Member States should be established, ensuring an annual debate between Parliament, the Commission, the Council and representatives from national parliaments on the Stability and Convergence Programmes (SCPs) and the National Reform Programmes (NRPs) and on assessing national economic developments; and that (2) a mechanism should be established at national level to assess the implementation of the Europe 2020 priorities and the achievement of the relevant national targets included in the National Reform Programme in order to support the yearly evaluation by the EU institutions.
I also believe that the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact should be strengthened, with a view to: (1) taking the debt level, debt profile and debt dynamics more strongly into account in the pact of convergence towards Member State-specific Medium Term Fiscal Objectives (MTFOs) to be included in the SCPs; (2) encouraging the establishment of early warning budgetary control mechanisms at national level; and (3) establishing pre-specified and pre-emptive measures within the euro area, both for the preventive and the corrective arm of the Stability and Growth Pact.
It seeks to guide the Commission's legislative documents and is being discussed 24 hours after the position of the Franco-German directorate became known.
This consensus cannot be reformed: it can only be replaced with another that puts employment and the correction of serious inequalities at the centre of economic coordination.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree that a coherent and transparent framework must be established for multilateral surveillance of macro-economic developments in the Union and in the Member States.
in writing. - The global economic crisis has challenged the current mechanisms of economic policy coordination in the EU and has revealed some of its weaknesses.
This INI report intends to set out the position of Parliament as regards the legislative package on economic policy coordination (six proposals, including four under Codecision) released by the Commission two weeks earlier.
For example, it is essential to respect the Stability and Growth Pact.
The current economic, financial and social crisis has demonstrated that the European Union's economic governance model has not worked as well as would be ideal.
Therefore, it is necessary to find solutions for better and more efficient economic governance in Europe so as to prevent the already serious effects of the crisis from getting worse.
In this context, the rapporteur recommends that the European Commission establish a coherent framework for economic surveillance, strengthen the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and economic governance in the euro area, and review the EU budgetary, financial and fiscal instruments.
Moreover, it is also proposed to establish a robust and credible excessive debt prevention and resolution mechanism for the euro area.
Finally, it is suggested improving the reliability of EU statistics as well as the external representation of the Union in the area of economic and monetary affairs.
Subsequently, it is necessary for the Member States to fully respect the rules and decisions of the European Union.
I would also stress the importance of aligning the reform with the goals of the Europe 2020 strategy, not least in the sense of strengthening the internal market and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises as essential motors for economic growth.
Ladies and gentlemen, the current Stability and Growth Pact regulations and the weak system of implementation have failed to sufficiently ensure a strong fiscal and macro-economic policy.
The recommendations provided in this report are a good start.
The process of reducing long-term deficits must be combined with other efforts stimulating the economy, such as improved preconditions for investments and an improved internal market, providing increased competitiveness.
Therefore, it is important for us to appreciate that decisions taken in the first half of the year to safeguard the stability of the euro are only temporary and will need to be supported by a better economic governance framework at EU level.
in writing. - The EU 2020 objectives re-establish the need for closer integration between Member States' economies throughout the European Union in order to encourage productivity, competitiveness and growth.
The current economic crisis has demonstrated that the present economic governance model does not go far enough and cannot allow for progressive integration that will ensure the stability of EU economies.
It is for that reason that I am voting to support the recommendations of the Feio report, which highlights the need to strengthen EU economic provisions and to review and improve them in the longer term.
I understand that Europe needs to look critically at its current economic and financial stability plans in order to move forward together, towards a stronger, more closely intertwined economy that fulfils its potential as a global economic superpower.
