It will be known to the European Parliament on 25 January.
As I have just told you, these different language versions are still being finished, and as you know, the Council can only pass that document, that agreement, to Parliament, when the different language versions are available, which the Commission has in hand.
Judge Bruguière explained this in his in camera intervention filmed before this Parliament in November.
This led the Council, during the previous Swedish Presidency, to make a provisional application for a new agreement, to avoid the expiry of the current one on 31 January and, therefore, the cancellation of any possible flow of information.
Mr President, Mr López Garrido, ladies and gentlemen, this whole debate was, of course, initially coloured by the frustration and irritation that many people in the European Parliament felt because we had the impression that, once again, things were being rushed through in the Council before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The European Union cannot invalidate this legal tradition, which is enshrined in the systems of 27 States, by referring to unavailable translations.
I am wondering why we have to apply this fast-tracked procedure when there has been an agreement in place between the EU and the United States since 1 February on provisional legal assistance, Article 4 of which describes precisely how bank data is to be passed on where there are justified grounds for suspicion.
I believe that is the purpose of this agreement, but in that case, we also want it to be enacted as an appropriate law.
I have to point out that a negative vote will mean that the interim agreement will not enter into force on 1 February.
I am annoyed that there are no representatives of the Commission in seats 21 and 22 because, if I understand it correctly, the Commission would have had a duty to expedite this whole matter once Parliament had been asked to set the approval procedure in motion.
I do not want to repeat what my fellow Members have said, but I would like to say that I think it would be extremely dangerous for the Council to have this provisional SWIFT agreement enter into force without Parliament having first voted on what you intend to present to us.
SWIFT has been a valuable tool in achieving this.
Mr President, this House has been treated in an insulting and almost humiliating way throughout this whole process.
In rejecting it, however, we are doing the Commission a favour, as there are two new commissioners, Mrs Malmström and Mrs Reding, who we know will certainly be able to negotiate the best possible agreement from scratch, and we are sure that they are willing to do so. (DE) Mr President, very many measures have been adopted under the guise of combating terrorism in recent years, including by the Council.
What I have told you is that on 25 January, the agreement which will come into force provisionally on 1 February will be in the hands of the European Parliament.
It is important that these agreements on the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme remain in force.
Yes, of course, for the moment, we think it is vital to get this provisional agreement in force and, in any case, Parliament will have all the authority accorded it by the Treaty of Lisbon to ultimately decide whether or not the agreement should go ahead.
Mr President, I would just like to understand one thing: if only one or a few language versions are available, then I would like to know the language skills of the Members of the Commission and the Council who signed the agreement and who decided on it on 30 November - so it must be available.
In any case, I repeat, on 25 January, you will have the agreement and we will be able to discuss it as much as you like.
Please proceed, Mr Schulz. (DE) Mr President, I apologise for taking the floor once again.
Mr López Garrido, the agreement was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 13 January.
I ask you now to tell us which language versions were available when the agreement was published in the Official Journal on 13 January.
On a daily basis, 8 000 monetary institutions from 200 countries communicate with each other via the channels of the society, which is based in Belgium, with data centres in the Netherlands and the US.
