Preparation for the European Council meeting (25-26 March 2010) (debate) The next item is the debate on the statement by the Council and the Commission on preparation for the European Council meeting (25-26 March 2010).
The European Union retains its world leadership in the fight against climate change; it must do so, it must continue holding onto this leadership.
That is, at any event, the principle that will be very much in mind at this weekend's meeting of the European Council.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, it is indeed a very good and timely opportunity for us to meet today - one day before the important Spring European Council.
I also want to take the opportunity to thank the Spanish Presidency of the Council for its support for the Europe 2020 strategy.
That is why the European Council will deal with two of our most obvious long-term challenges: our economic future, and climate change.
We have already debated the Europe 2020 strategy together in this Parliament.
What is really important is the measures which each Member State will take to boost its growth rate and address the shortcomings we all know are there.
If there is a lesson from the financial crisis, it is that we are all interdependent in the world.
Thanks to the Lisbon Treaty, we can go for a new approach to economic coordination, a reinforced economic governance of Europe - one which gives the freedom necessary to target at the national level, but which brings a strong European dimension, and using all the instruments at European level to kick-start the economy.
I hope that the European leaders will be present and say 'yes' when it comes to responding to these challenges in a collective spirit.
And of course, at the same time, we will continue to implement our 20-20-20 package, showing, in particular, how it is compatible with the work of economic modernisation and reform set out in the 2020 strategy.
It is in the same spirit that I will present to the European Council some of the major challenges for the G20 that will take place in June in Canada.
In fact, we should never forget that some of those issues are European but they should also be addressed at global level.
Financial stability and the economic and financial situation in Greece are not on the formal agenda of this European Council.
However, frankly speaking, I cannot see how it is possible for Heads of State or Government, notably those in the euro area, not to discuss this issue.
Let me therefore state our position on this.
Bringing the deficit down vigorously is crucial and Greece has been taking measures to that effect.
In particular, Greece is taking measures leading to a reduction of its deficit this year by 4% of GDP.
Such fiscal effort is in line with the course of action recommended by the Commission and the Council, as acknowledged by the Council on 16 March.
In response to the economic and financial situation in Greece, the informal meeting of the Heads of State or Government on 11 February stated that, and I quote, 'euro area Member States will take determined and coordinated action, if needed, to safeguard financial stability in the euro area as a whole'.
The Commission believes it is now appropriate to create, within the euro area, an instrument for coordinated action which could be used to provide assistance to Greece in case of need.
Creating such a mechanism is also a question of responsibility and solidarity.
The framework for coordinated action should be understood as a safety net to be used only when all other means to avoid a crisis have been exhausted, including, first and foremost, exhausting the scope for policy action at domestic level.
The eurozone is a pole of stability, and it is important that its capacity to provide stability is further enhanced.
This solidarity has been shown since the start of the financial crisis and it must not be denied our Greek friends, or any other EU country that encounters the same difficulties.
This week, it is imperative that a European solution is found to this crisis, and it must be a Community-based solution - I repeat, a Community-based solution - which must be envisaged in accordance with European rules and within the framework of European financial aid mechanisms.
It is in everyone's interests that we guarantee the stability of Europe and of the European Monetary System.
In other words, yes, Europe must show solidarity with Greece.
The first change concerns the Commission, which I call on to exercise fully and, above all, authoritatively, its role as guardian of the treaties.
The second change concerns the governance of our public finances.
In a period of growth, it is generally felt that one has the right to conduct one's own budgetary, fiscal and social policy without really worrying about anyone else.
We are in the midst of a real crisis as far as our citizens and the situation on the ground are concerned, and we need political courage. (Applause) Mr President, the European summit must and will deal with the crisis in Greece; that much is obvious.
Greece has delivered, writes the International Herald Tribune.
It is about enabling Greece to borrow money on the international markets at the same interest rates as are available to the other countries.
As a result of the speculation caused by the failure to demonstrate solidarity with Greece, that country is paying 6%.
If we do not want to see a large-scale conflagration, we need now to demonstrate solidarity with Greece.
It is the Commission that must propose how we can achieve a sensible stabilisation within the euro area.
The German Bundesbank - which to German conservatives is as the Vatican is to Catholics - writes in its monthly report for March: 'However, financial contributions from the International Monetary Fund to resolve structural problems - such as to directly finance a budget deficit or to finance a bank recapitalisation - are incompatible with its monetary mandate'.
I do not want to make it my own, but I would urge you all to listen carefully to the following quote from Wolfgang Münchau in the Financial Times Deutschland - which is not a Socialist journal, and this man is not a Social Democrat: 'In a situation in which European necessities come up against German populism, let us choose European necessities'. (Applause) Mr President, I believe that the conclusion that all of us - the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the Greens, Socialists, Liberals and all the other groups, except the Euro-sceptic groups, which are perhaps pleased with what is happening right now in Europe - can draw is that greater clarity is required within the European Council.
That is absolutely necessary, Mr President, because today the spread - that is the gap between the German rate, which today stands at 3.05%, and the Greek rate, which is 6.5% at present - is 350 basis points.
The only way of resolving that is really to take the necessary step of introducing this European instrument.
A second reason to explain this requirement is that the efforts that the Greeks are going to make - must make, are obliged to make - must serve a purpose.
For, if a European solution is not chosen, if these interest rates cannot be reduced, all the efforts that the Greeks are going to make will ultimately go to the capital markets.
It means that the tabloids and armchair politics have won, and I believe we should think very carefully - you too, Mr Langen, in your German delegation - as to whether the 'to be or not to be' of solidarity in the European Union should hinge on the results of opinion polls currently being obtained by a German party of which the German Chancellor is a member relating to the prospects of electoral success in a Federal German state.
We must be led by transparency, reason and arguments that we can put to our citizens, not by the tabloid press such as BILD-Zeitung.
Otherwise, as Mr Münchau wrote today, before long, Chancellor Merkel will be returning defeated from Brussels.
I regret to have to say that not all European leaders, today, are able to resist bowing to this kind of populism.
It seems to me that Greece does need our solidarity, because Europe is built on the principle of solidarity, but, of course, we must not allow any politician in any country to treat economic policy like going shopping with a credit card with no limit, because things will end up as they have done in Greece.
Unfortunately, I have to say that, today, we are also facing a problem which is seen so often in Europe, namely that ideology and politics are more important than the economy.
We can say, today, that Greece probably adopted the euro too early, but because politics was put before the economy, we have the crisis which we have today.
We should not count on officials being able to decide about how to make our continent better, instead of allowing a free economy to do this.
The increasing social chasm in the European Union and within the Member States can no longer be overlooked by anyone, yet the pressing issues associated with this are not on the agenda of the Heads of State at their first summit following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The debate on the EU 2020 economic strategy is naturally already on the agenda.
We want a strategy for Europe that gives social and ecological needs priority over competitive interests.
I trust that tomorrow, we shall prove that we really have achieved harmony and something in common. (HU) Those who spoke before me all mentioned the solution to the Greek crisis.
Yes, this global financial system, which had become disconnected from the economy, is the fundamental reason why countries find themselves in this situation. (ES) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are more aware than anyone of how my party wanted to help make the Spanish Presidency a success.
Leading the Union means seeking a solution for Greece.
Parliament will provide the Spanish Presidency with a supervision agreement that can be summarised in two words: more supervision and more Europe.
I am sure that the Spanish Government, which has always preached these ideas, will support Parliament and not the other positions that originate from the other side of the Channel.
Leading the Union means bringing in a new idea on the issue of governance, on which you have just written in a newspaper.
We saw from the Ecofin conclusions last week that they want to see a withdrawal of labour market support measures from the end of 2010.
What we need instead is a smart balance between responsible fiscal policy on the one hand and continued labour market support on the other.
They say that, if the emergency exit strategies agreed by 20 Member States with the Commission are followed, an additional 4.5 million European citizens will needlessly be in the unemployment queues by the end of 2013.
That can be avoided.
At the present time, we are dealing with a financial crisis, leading to a jobs crisis, in combination with a climate crisis.
An economic growth based on social and environmental grounds is crucial to kick-start Europe, but I am afraid that the Council and Commission's proposals for governance - however welcome - will be too vague and will not help to achieve the set targets.
Secondly, if funding should be conditional on how well a Member State lives up to its obligations according to the 2020 strategy, we cannot keep spending taxpayers' money on governments that lie and cheat with statistics - solidarity, yes, but based on transparency.
We must address the question of solidarity not only in the case of Greece, but also in shaping the long-term policies of the European Union, and I say this in the context of the agreement that we expect in the Council on the goals of the 2020 strategy.
What worries me in the Commission's plan is that there are no accents on economic cohesion in this strategy alongside the accent on social cohesion.
In other words, this means that until 2020, the equalisation of economic disparities will be less dynamic.
I should like to touch on an issue that also concerns other countries.
Anything above this level and the banks are on their knees and nothing can change this picture.
We consider that the Council should also work in this direction in future, so that we do not see other countries getting into the same mess as Greece.
I am sorry but I wish to say that one minute is not long enough to present a view.
These are all points that we should bear in mind and which I do not think have come out during this debate.
These are real problems, affecting the real economy, which Europe should address very seriously and urgently. (DE) Madam President, I would like to start with some praise for Greece.
It is not speculators that have resulted in Greece's problems.
That is the key; not reproaching any particular Head of Government who is abiding by the European treaties and her own constitution. (Applause) (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear - and it has already been stated, Mr Langen - that Greece must do its own homework.
From my point of view, however, it has also been stated quite clearly that there must be solidarity.
That is the crucial thing.
Also, Mr Langen, the Financial Times - a newspaper that is closer politically to your views than to my own - has put it quite plainly: that is the difference between Chancellor Kohl and Chancellor Merkel.
Or, as another newspaper that is closer to you, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, says: another day, another proposal.
The answer, or lack of an answer, that we have given so far is not acceptable.
However, we also need cooperation at European level, in particular, to prevent such problems arising.
Therefore, the Council should back Commissioner Hedegaard and recognise that the conditions are now right to move to a 30% target, and the Council should recognise that the cheapest and easiest way to make that further cut is through energy efficiency and, specifically, a binding energy efficiency target.
It is freedom, and not successive strategies, which is the correct response to the crisis. (NL) Madam President, no emergency solution is in place for Greece as yet, and in fact this is not a problem at the moment, as even the Greek Prime Minister said here in Parliament that the country wishes to put its own house in order.
Moreover, as others have also said, the new EU 2020 strategy can be successful only if we really achieve sound European economic governance.
This will entail not only Member States appearing together at the summit but also the European Commission deploying all the powers conferred on it by the Treaty of Lisbon; all the powers to really act and enforce things.
I very much hope that the emergency measure has been agreed by the time the summit starts tomorrow, so that we can focus on how to lift the Netherlands out of the crisis with a solid 2020 strategy, and also on achieving a solution regarding the way ahead after Copenhagen. (EL) Madam President, according to recent statements by officials and articles in the press, it would appear that the most likely 'rescue' scenario for the Greek economy will be a joint effort between the Member States of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.
Mrs Merkel also appears to be pushing things in that direction.
For the European Union, any such possibility violates Community legality - and I say that for those who defend it, given that no treaty, no legal text makes any reference to any such intervention by the International Monetary Fund or other international organisation in these procedures.
Moreover, when one reads Articles 143 and 122, none of the authors of the treaty bore in mind the fact that, after the changeover to the euro, we could be faced with a problem of the kind with which we are faced today.
We must address it calmly, we must reduce the pressure and we must not start with the assumption that we have to, in principle, strengthen the tool - an ineffective one so far - that is the Stability and Growth Pact, because it was repressive before it was cooperative.
A particular priority should be to help the eastern border regions of the European Union, such as the region around Lublin in Poland, for which a special budget line should be established as part of the 2020 strategy.
The lies and demagogic statements by the representatives of the bourgeois governments, the forces of the European one-way street, that the European Union and EMU will act as a shield against crisis, the fairy tales about the European market of 480 million, the big European family, Community solidarity and other such idealistic talk have failed.
The first concerns public finances, and the second competitiveness.
I think we need to learn from this: we need to abide by the rules we already have and we need to develop and improve the Stability and Growth Pact and make it more able to meet crises in the future.
But we have the same debate now, because some now say that we should delay the exit strategies and the exit from public deficits.
The second thing is that competitiveness goes hand in hand with our ability to have stable public finances and to make the real changes we have talked about for decades.
That is up to the Heads of Governments to do this week. (DE) Madam President, Mr Hökmark, I think we have been in different parliaments in recent years, because the parliament I have experienced is different to yours!
The international fiasco is the cause of the overindebtedness of the Member States of the European Union.
However, we cannot stand here today and say that it was wrong to focus our growth policy on employment and economic activity.
We have told the Commission here that EU 2020 is too watered down.
Clearly there is pressure in that regard at the moment, but the fact is that Greece enjoyed major rate advantages thanks to being in the euro area.
That is why I am in favour of this major, strong currency. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek crisis is a current problem, while the growth crisis and the environmental crisis are long-term problems, and both need to be tackled dynamically with decisions taken by the European Council.
The Europe 2020 strategy rightly states that growth should be intelligent, sustainable and inclusive.
When I look at the Council's conclusions, however, I see that they are much more narrowly focused and reduced to the classical growth strategy - a strategy that has failed and that did not get us very far.
I do not think that this idea is crazy because it is in our DNA, in the nature of our political project: in the nature of our political project because it embraces solidarity.
In other words, how can they think that the aim of trying to show solidarity with Greece is to attack another Member State, because it is simply reminding us that the policy of solidarity must go hand in hand with a policy of responsibility?
This is something of which we have often reminded ourselves, with one voice, because we are aware that solidarity and responsibility will enable us to make the European political project practicable for everyone.
We must be certain that what unites us is stronger than what divides us, and in light of this, we must ask the Commission, as from tomorrow, to be ambitious and demand the necessary rigour from the Member States to ensure that they are capable of providing solidarity by means of a project which, in the long term, will be capable of giving tangible form to our European project. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek crisis is clearly the most serious problem that Europe is facing, and it is undoubtedly caused by a lack of rigour in the management of public expenditure.
Moreover, this delay has already had a negative impact: indeed, it has opened the door to speculation; it has created, within the Union, doubts over certain countries' intentions with regard to the future of Europe (I do not want us to forget that this is the first major issue that we have had to deal with following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon); it has accentuated the difficulties of the Greek Government, which has had to implement anti-popular measures - not trivial or minor decisions - affecting millions of people, and it has done so without being sure that help was on its way.
I would like to remind Mr Mauro that Germany is, without doubt, one of the countries to have benefited most from the entry into force of the euro and its effect on interest rates.
Europe must do so in the interests of Europe. (RO) The Council of the European Union enthusiastically welcomed the Commission's Europe 2020 Communication.
The development of transport and energy infrastructures in the European Union, along with their harmonisation with those existing in neighbouring countries, can provide a powerful driving force promoting sustainable growth and ensuring stable jobs.
For this reason, I call on the Council to ask the Commission to include these key areas in the EU 2020 strategy for the benefit of Europe's citizens. (EL) Madam President, the European summit on 11 February, which was to send a message of support to Greece so that the markets would calm down, has basically been annulled due to the dissonance and uncertainty prevailing within the European Union.
However, at the same time, it continues to borrow at exceptionally high interest rates, the most recent example being on 5 March, because there are speculators on the markets making a fortune by betting on the odds of a country going bankrupt and ultimately creating the conditions and preconditions for that to happen.
Both are needed when you belong to a family such as a euro area.
However, it cannot face the fury of the market alone at this difficult stage.
That means, first of all, individual responsibility on the part of the Member States in all those areas where they, themselves, are responsible.
Conversely, this also, of course, means an obligation to assist on the part of the other Member States - in other words, Member States that have got into difficulties through no fault of their own will also receive assistance.
In other words, we absolutely must avoid the mistakes of the Lisbon Strategy.
It has often been said in the past that the strategy of cooperation that characterised the Lisbon Strategy failed.
However, the most important thing of all at the Council meeting is that there must be a clearly European commitment to support monetary union with the coordination of fiscal, budgetary and economic policies on a par with monetary union.
EMU will remain mutilated without more coordinated economic and fiscal policy and, above all, without solidarity.
It is regrettable that these two very important Community policies were omitted from the earlier material provided by the Commission.
And finally, this EU strategy cannot replace appropriate debate on the budget directive, and we consider it very important that the regional dimension of the cohesion policy also be given space.
Thank you for your attention. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate about the euro, the debate about Greece, has defined recent days.
I am also firmly convinced that we in Europe need a discussion about the social market economy, about the regulatory framework.
There was a birth defect when we launched monetary union in terms of having a single currency whilst, at the same time, failing to shape economic policy more jointly.
Almost every speaker here has discussed Greece - the crisis in Greece - and yet Mr Barroso said at the beginning that it is not even on the formal agenda for the two days at the European Council.
It is their cause.
A single currency for such a large, economically heterogeneous region of the world is self-evidently problematic.
Firstly, my observation: I do not understand why President Van Rompuy is absent from such an important sitting - Minister, you are not a member of the European Council - and I believe that he could have been here.
I propose that we create public sector accounting standards for the entire European Union so that we have financial statements that are consistent, above board and reliable for all the Member States.
This is exactly what we need at this moment, because it is very clear that a European problem needs a European solution.
I would like to thank all of you who supported the Commission on having very clear concrete goals for tomorrow's European Council conclusions.
The Commission therefore insists that the European Council accept these concrete headline goals after the deliberations tomorrow and the day after.
I am sure that this weekend's European Council, which is the same European Council that met on 11 February, will strengthen and preserve that stability.
Rest assured that such a failure will not come about, but that the political commitment to solidarity at the heart of the European Union and at the heart of the euro area will be reaffirmed.
I would like to know whether you think that it is not leading the European Union to have negotiations going on at this moment with this House on the financial supervision package.
I also think that it is leading the European Union to be very much in agreement and work with the Commission on the proposal that the Commission will submit on the coordination of economic policies in enforcement of Article 136 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This is leading the European Union, and leading the European Union means holding a European Council this weekend that will clearly express its support for Greece and for the Greek Government.
Written statements (Rule 149) One of the important topics on the European Council agenda relates to the EU 2020 strategy on job creation and economic growth.
We also need to set clear long-term objectives.
The Commission's new strategy for the next 10 years envisages five courses of action: the creation of new jobs, the battle against poverty, the reduction in the school dropout level, investment in research and development and the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
The economic, financial and social crisis that we are currently experiencing requires a concerted response at European level.
It is both possible and desirable to find a European solution in order to avoid these constant speculative attacks on the euro.
This is a time that requires solidarity between the Member States and Europe's institutions.
It is even a matter of duty.
The seriousness of the social problems that are being experienced in various EU Member States, including unemployment, lack of job security and poverty, make it vital that the spring European Council gives a serious and thorough response.
The response to the situation in Greece is an important matter, especially because what is happening there contradicts everything that was trumpeted about the virtues of the euro and the blessings of being in the euro area: being in the vanguard of the strong currency of rich countries.
The initial crisis was enough to show that there is no real solidarity within the euro area and that so-called 'economic and social cohesion' is nothing more than propaganda used in electoral campaigns.
Now Mrs Merkel is even threatening that Member States which do not fulfil the requirements of the Stability Pact, such as Greece, amongst others, will be expelled from the euro area, forgetting that Germany has been and is the major beneficiary of policies based on a strong euro... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) The economic and financial crisis, and Greece, require European action.
in writing. - I would like to speak about the European Digital Agenda.
However, the financial crisis has brought the correlation between full, uniform monetary union and the imperfect economic union of the EU to the surface.
During the current economic and social crisis, combined with the climate crisis, the EU has devised a new strategy for the next 10 years.
The EU 2020 strategy must help create a more inclusive Europe, with an economy which is integrated and environmentally friendly.
The development of research and innovation must become a priority to enable us to combat the effects of climate change and create green, 'intelligent' jobs.
For this reason, the targets set must be mandatory in order to ensure sustainable growth and the development of a more inclusive labour market and decent living conditions for all citizens.
The EU can only succeed if we know what direction we want to take when it comes to the economy and social policy.
One objective which, in the long term, would also yield positive social and economic consequences, would be to create a sustainable energy mix for Europe.
The main theme of the Spring European Council is the EU 2020 strategy.
At Community level, industry generates 26.4% of GDP, but there are Member States where industrial output contributes only 14% of GDP.
