EIB annual report for 2009 (debate) The first item is the report by Mr Cutaş, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the 2009 annual report of the European Investment Bank (2010/2248/INI).
Mr President, the presentation of this report on the activities carried out by the European Investment Bank is part of an annual democratic exercise which comes under the responsibility the Bank has to the European Parliament.
Once the Treaty of Lisbon came into force in December 2009, the European Investment Bank became an instrument for supporting the European Union's external policies, while also acting as an important partner for driving the Union's economy.
I would also like to thank the entire bank's staff for their excellent cooperation, especially President Maystadt and Vice-President Kolatz-Ahnen.
We are all looking for a method of reconciling Member States' growing debts and deficits with economic growth targets set out, for example, in the EU 2020 strategy, which require major investments in education, health, technology, sustainable energy and infrastructure.
I think that the solution to this problem is a European one, with the European Investment Bank having an important role to play in this situation.
Investing in SMEs is a means of making a significant contribution to the innovation, research and development activities taking place in the European Union.
The European Microfinance Facility was also created in 2010, pooling funds amounting to EUR 200 million, assigned to those who need micro-credits.
Last but not least, I would like to mention the role played by the Bank outside the European Union, in countries en route to joining the EU and those coming under the remit of cooperation and development policies.
In these countries, the European Investment Bank supports the European Union's foreign policy objectives.
This is why I think that we need to both assign more specialised staff in this area and raise the participation level of local actors in the project.
We will develop our work in three areas: the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, the fight against climate change and support for EU external policy.
Those national plans, as you know, were supported by the European economic recovery plan, adopted by the European Council in December 2008.
The EIB played its part by increasing the volume of its lending from EUR 48 billion in 2007 to EUR 79 billion in 2009, and by channelling that injection of funds into the real economy towards the areas described as a priority by the Council, in particular, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, as your rapporteur has just emphasised.
Back in 2010, it provided more than EUR 4 billion in finance for projects in the education sector and more than EUR 7 billion for RDI - research, development and innovation - projects.
With the same amount of funds, the European budget can bear a much greater volume of investment and, at the same time, these joint instruments relieve the capital constraint on the EIB.
This means that, with the same amount of capital, the EIB can increase the volume of its lending.
You can therefore see the two kinds of leverage that such an instrument affords, and so it seems clear to us that the EIB's contribution to the Europe 2020 strategy will be all the more effective because we will be able to rely on pragmatic cooperation with the Commission and with other financial institutions, too.
The second area: the fight against climate change and its sometimes tragic consequences.
In 2010, EIB loans for projects directly contributing to a reduction in the volume of greenhouse gas emissions increased to almost EUR 20 billion, or almost 30% of our total lending.
The loans for energy efficiency improvement projects increased to EUR 2.3 billion in 2010.
As for investment to develop urban transport, and hence to reduce pollution from individual means of transport, the EIB provided EUR 7.9 billion in loans in 2010.
If the European Union so wishes, the EIB can be that arm.
That is one of the conclusions of the Camdussus report on the EIB's external mandate.
I would also like to welcome Mr Maystadt to this plenary because it is very important that the Commission also congratulate him and the EIB for his continued forceful response to the effect of the global financial crisis.
I would like to say a couple of words on financial instruments.
At the end of the day, this means more projects in support of a Europe 2020 strategy and better support for its goals and objectives.
The Europe 2020 Project Bond Initiative, which is currently in public consultation, is a very good example.
The EU 2020 strategy calls for large-scale cross-border investment to underpin the EU 2020 flagship actions and develop smart, upgraded and fully interconnected infrastructures.
To conclude, I would like to make a few remarks on the EIB's external activities.
Regarding EIB financing outside the EU, the Commission supports the increase of the ceilings proposed by Parliament under the mid-term review of the EIB external mandate, in particular a EUR 1 billion increase for the Mediterranean region.
Moreover, we support a progressive reinforcement of the EIB's development capacity because these additional needs would require a gradual increase of staff resources specialised in development aspects.
The establishment of such a platform would help create synergies and foster cooperation between the EIB and other financial institutions.
We propose that this supervision be carried out either by the European Central Bank, or, on the basis of a voluntary approach by the EIB, by the new European Banking Authority, with or without the involvement of one or more regulators, and we call on you, Commissioner, to make proposals.
I shall conclude, Mr President, by mentioning our proposal for the European Union to become a member of the European Investment Bank, so that that intergovernmental instrument can gradually become a Community one.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, I would also like to speak, like President Maystadt, about the future, and would like to raise three points.
The important element of the response to this question lies with the European Investment Bank and its family of institutions.
No, the European Parliament and the Council are colegislators on an equal footing, and, together with and in close contact with the European Commission, should jointly determine the rules governing the EIB's external activities.
A public bank, a bank which can contribute to economic growth and the improvement of infrastructure with loans, is indispensable to the development of our neighbouring countries.
The European Parliament wants to lay down that role for the Bank clearly in its external mandate.
What I mean is that, although I personally am in favour of project bonds and of many of the ideas that are circulating at the moment, I am very anxious to ensure that we do not rush into the solution of public-private partnerships without looking more closely at exactly how they are set up and what they will ultimately cost taxpayers and all those who are involved in them.
I believe that they could be a very useful tool, but there are also funds in place in Europe at the moment - I am thinking of the Marguerite Fund and of the work of the deposit and consignment offices that have taken initiatives across borders - and I therefore wanted to argue for greater long-term investment and monitoring that are suitable for what we are trying to achieve together.
Our view of the EIB is that, ultimately, it is a bank in its own right, and as such, it is subject to bank constraints, which must be taken into account.
However, you aim to provide other benefits too, and that is why public money is used.
I think that you could make still more progress in reporting, in measuring these non-financial benefits, which are at the very heart of your action and of your legitimacy.
The report specifically states that you must pursue all the EU's objectives.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, Parliament has spent many hours in this Chamber discussing how to make the European Supervisory Authorities responsible for our financial services into the most transparent and accountable of organisations.
The loan book and the general banking and lending activities of the EIB need to be assessed in the same way as we would assess our commercial banks.
It is time for this Parliament to seek a closer role in scrutinising the activities of the EIB, especially as the Bank's role increases in developing new financial instruments.
From our point of view, at least some of what NGOs are calling for from the EIB is quite plausible: greater transparency as regards the granting of credit by financial intermediaries and the elaboration of clearer financing terms for financial intermediaries as well as efficiency criteria for the granting of loans.
Projects that do not meet these standards should be excluded from support.
Finally, I would like to make a comment on the subject of energy policy.
In view of the disaster involving the Fukushima reactor, the promotion of forward-looking, renewable, CO2-free and nuclear-free energy production, as well as the promotion of energy efficiency in all areas in which the EIB invests, must be given the highest priority. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr President, the President of the European Investment Bank (EIB) has stated that in his visionary view, the EIB could become a driving force in developing countries alongside China.
I believe that the European Investment Bank (EIB) is also familiar with these.
I spent 35 years as an investment banker, investment manager, investment adviser and economic strategist, and I never bought a dud bank in my life.
I never bought a dud bank for my clients, but over the past few years, I have had the politicians and bureaucrats put a gun to my head, as a taxpayer, and make me buy more dud banks than you could shake a stick at.
I do not know where you get your advice from, but statistically, the weather has not actually changed for about 15 or 16 years, so what are you going to shovel all this money into?
I would counsel you, if you want to keep your AAA status, to ignore the pleas of this House - full of eccentrics, greenies and bored housewives - in particular, in relation to paragraph 48 of the report.
To get back to my specific points: the European Investment Bank (EIB) is an important instrument in three areas.
The EIB must do more to promote strategic investments in Europe, and so I should like to invite you to support those who have taken initiatives to improve long-term financing and, in particular, deposit and consignment offices - the caisse des dépôts and cassa dei depositi - and KfW.
In the current turbulent conditions affecting a good many of those countries, the EIB can make a useful contribution to economic development within the context of the Union for the Mediterranean through its targeted financing, and can thus help to establish democratic civilisation in those countries whose future is still uncertain.
The importance of its role in funding projects across all sectors of the economy in the interests of the European Union has been even further amplified by the economic crisis.
The EIB report for 2009 indicates the countries benefiting from such loans, and I note with disappointment that Turkey receives the lion's share with almost a third of the total granted to all non-EU states.
I believe it is unacceptable that vast resources should be granted to a country like Turkey, which is outside the EU and, in my view, should always remain so. (BG) Mr President, I would first like to say that such a short, precise and clear report on the matter in question is a rare sight in this Parliament.
The European Investment Bank undoubtedly plays a fundamental and very important role in Europe's development.
However, I would like to make a few comments on the report and about what was said in this Chamber.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) has always played a significant and key role in the development of the European Union.
Its role and activity are even more important at a time of crisis such as the present.
The report presses for an increase in funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, and I agree that the EIB's activity must be focused and results-oriented.
The time required for procedures is another problem.
The EIB can, and must, have an important role in managing recent events in the Mediterranean.
Europe needs to think beyond the emergency and to implement a long-term strategy in order to ensure that funding and investment is made in situ, based on shared decisions, to promote democracy and development of the social and market economy. (SV) Mr President, I would like to highlight two main points in this report.
Firstly, the European Investment Bank has a central role in the Europe 2020 strategy.
This relates, in particular, to investments in green infrastructure.
The European Investment Bank should be even more active in these key areas.
European project bonds are an excellent step in the right direction, but these should be supplemented with more new financing options.
Secondly, the European Investment Bank has an important role in the EU's development policy.
I do think this is an issue of practical importance to the SME sector and I would like a response on this matter. (SK) Mr President, the European Investment Bank (EIB) was established with the objective of supporting the aims and policies of the European Union, both within a Union framework and elsewhere.
The EIB is answerable to the EU Member States, the Court of Auditors and OLAF.
The Bank must partner accountable and transparent financial intermediaries.
Strategic long-term investments in Europe need to be increased.
The spotlight must be on the amounts disbursed, the number of allocations made and the regions which have benefited from these funds. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the economic crisis, the crisis in the Mediterranean and the energy crisis, with Japan as a case in hand as regards nuclear power, I think that in its capacity as the operational arm of this policy, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has a crucial role to play.
As time is of the essence at this particular time, tell us something about this principle, as well as about the Marguerite Fund as I do not know what has happened to it.
With regard to these funds, which should stimulate and boost the economy, at this time the crucial factor is the timing of implementation. (LV) Mr President, in my opinion, the Bank's annual report for 2009 should be both approved and adopted.
For my part, I think that it would be worthwhile to carry out a strategic review and analysis of investment financing (subsidies not excluded), repayment of capital contributions by Member States to the European Investment Bank (EIB), loans, innovative instruments, financial planning and management aimed at such long-term projects as do not yield immediate results, and improvements to guarantee schemes, the establishment of an investment section in the Union budget, financial consortia between Europe, national and local institutions, political and public partnership, and other possibilities.
Convergence regions enjoy considerable support from the EIB.
The joint initiatives from the EIB and Commission in support of convergence have sought to encourage SMEs to access funding, develop micro-credits with a view to economic growth and create jobs, as well as provide support for sustainable investments in urban areas.
I congratulate Mr Cutaş for the excellent report he presented. (DE) Mr President, Mr Maystadt, this debate is of great importance for the economies of our Member States.
I would like to assure them that the Commission is giving careful consideration to the question of EIB regulatory supervision.
As regards cooperation and the role of the Commission in cooperation with the EIB, here, I would like to underline that the Commission already has a significant role in the governance of the EIB in that it delivers an opinion on all EIB loans, on own resources, and has representatives sitting on the board of directors of the EIB.
We are already using it, especially in the programmes that are oriented towards financing research and innovation.
If you want the EIB genuinely to be able to make a significant contribution to the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, in particular, through the development of joint instruments with the Commission, then the regulatory framework obviously has to allow it.
I should like to highlight three features that make the European Investment Bank a rather unique institution.
The second feature: we are the only truly European financial institution; our shareholders are all Member States, and they are exclusively Member States of the European Union.
We are the only financial institution that is legally obliged, under the Treaty, to financially support the European Union's political objectives.
I must admit, Mr Maystadt, that, in spite of a few critical comments, all my fellow Members who took the floor acknowledged the important role which the European Investment Bank can play during the current economic and financial crisis.
We clearly need investments and sustainable development projects in the European Union.
Written statements (Rule 149) We are aware of the importance that borrowing from the European Investment Bank (EIB) can have for development and social progress, given its low rates and long payment periods.
However, we disagree with transforming the EIB into a mere tool for the EU to implement its policies, as well as addressing the problems of social and economic cohesion and social development, which should be considered in the EU budget and EU structural and cohesion funds.
Obviously, the EIB can monitor and improve these efforts, but it cannot be a substitute for EU budgetary policies.
The most important requirements are that the activities of the European Investment Bank be even more transparent for the European Parliament and that the financial instruments outsourced by it be used in an even more targeted manner.
