Waste crisis in Campania (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Commission by Margrete Auken and Eva Lichtenberger, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the waste crisis in Campania - B7-0667/2010), the oral question to the Commission by Bairbre de Brún and Willy Meyer, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the waste crisis in Campania - B7-0801/2010), the oral question to the Commission by Judith A.
Merkies and Victor Boştinaru, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, on the waste crisis in Campania, Italy - B7-0805/2010), and the oral question to the Commission by Mara Bizzotto and Lorenzo Fontana, on behalf of the EFD Group, on the waste disposal crisis in Naples and the Campania Region and use of EU funding - B7-0806/2010).
We support all - and there are many - of the good Italian men and women who are fighting for openness on this matter and for those responsible for this situation getting this far to be brought to account.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank all Members of Parliament who drew my attention and the attention of my services to this important question.
I am pleased that the European Parliament has taken an active role in monitoring the waste management situation in Campania, as shown, for example, by the report adopted by the Committee on Petitions following the visit to Campania which it carried out in April last year.
Immediately after the European Court ruling, on 4 March 2010, the Commission wrote to the Italian authorities asking what measures they had planned or taken in order to comply with it.
We think that the waste management plan for Campania must be fully compliant with EU environmental law and must give priority to waste reduction, re-use and recycling; ensure implementation of separate collection in the whole region; provide Campania with the necessary composting capacity; and establish measures for the safe disposal in a reasonable timeframe of more than seven million tonnes of baled waste stored in several cities in Campania, which also means that the Italian authorities will have to carry out an analysis of the baled waste, the so-called 'ecoball', before deciding which is the safest way to dispose of them.
Secondly, after the official notification to Italy of the opening of the infringement procedure for waste management on 29 June 2007, the Commission informed the Italian authorities that no further cofinancing would be acceptable for waste management.
Tomorrow, we will publish in the Commission the report on the implementation of a thematic strategy on prevention and recycling of waste.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the Commissioner for having sought to point out that the Committee on Petitions has given an active role to this Parliament, so as to demonstrate that those who speak here, and the political groups that they represent, have every interest in dealing with this situation responsibly, in making all the procedures transparent and in involving the public in a dialogue that gives everyone a sense of responsibility.
As Mrs Bucella said in her recent hearing before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the deadline for complying with the judgment usually varies from 12 to 24 months, so we are well on schedule.
The Campania region made a commitment to present a regional plan by 2010, but it has now been postponed until March 2011.
Evidently, the government did submit a plan, but this was not forwarded in time.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the waste disposal plan drawn up must be implemented in such a way as to provide for separate collection, recycling and, only in the last instance, incineration.
However, the mistrust that citizens display towards any waste project can be explained by the fact that much has been promised in these times at a political level, but practically none of those promises have been kept.
In the 13 years that the environmental crisis has been going on, public funds in Campania have strengthened the criminal links between politicians, both on the left and on the right, businessmen and the Camorra.
Padania is willing to help the people of Campania, but it will not accept any accusations made against it. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly do not intend for my speech to deny the seriousness of a situation that is the inevitable outcome of obvious administrative and political failings, which have been - and still are - in danger of burying an entire city and its surroundings in waste.
The national government and the new regional council have shouldered their responsibilities and have the political determination to resolve the crisis.
The oral questions we are discussing call for the application of the procedure laid down in Article 260 of the Treaty, but applying a financial penalty will not resolve the situation in Campania.
With regard to ROP 2000-2006, the Campania region has accounted for the EUR 140 million funding package made available; the money has been used to construct storage, treatment and recovery facilities, waste to energy facilities, and wet and dry separation facilities, to secure landfills, to construct, or extend, waste materials recovery facilities, and to implement separate-collection measures.
As for ROP 2007-2013, EUR 110 million has been earmarked for the construction of waste treatment facilities, and EUR 50 million for the financing of municipal separate-collection facilities.
The activities carried out under target 1.1 of ROP ERDF 2007-2013 and measure 1.7 of ROP 2000-2006 have been greatly restricted by the spending conditions imposed as a result of the infringement procedure launched in relation to the waste management situation in Campania.
When addressing waste management problems in the European Union, I therefore call on the Commission to draw attention to such violations where waste management priorities laid down in the European Union directive on waste are not followed and there is encouragement not to follow them. (DE) Madam President, I have been able to see for myself the waste management situation in Campania as part of a delegation from the Committee on Petitions.
Once the region presents a coherent waste management plan, the European Union will release the funds.
I will say it again: as far as I am concerned, neither the Commission nor the European Parliament is interested in financial penalties.
As was mentioned by some of you, the idea is to solve problems, but by imposing fines if there is no other way to solve the problems, because that is my duty.
Believe it or not, there are five Member States where landfilling is below 5% of municipal waste, but there are also seven Member States where landfilling is over 80%, so we have really very different situations in Europe when we deal with these programmes, and this is an issue which we certainly want to address.
This picture is of the situation between 1995 and 2007 and, if it shows anything, it shows that if countries want, they can change.
