Implementation of the synergies of research and innovation earmarked funds in Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006 concerning the European Fund of Regional Development and the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Development - Delivering a single market to consumers and citizens - Long-term sustainability of public finances for a recovering economy - Contribution of the Cohesion policy to the achievement of Lisbon and the EU 2020 objectives (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mr van Nistelrooij, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the implementation of the synergies of research and innovation earmarked Funds in Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006 concerning the European Fund of Regional Development and the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Development in cities and regions as well as in the Member States and the Union, the report by Mr Grech, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on delivering a single market to consumers and citizens, the report by Mr Hoang Ngoc, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the long-term sustainability of public finances for a recovering economy [COM(2009/0545 - 2010/2038 (INI))], and the report by Mr Cortés Lastra, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the contribution of the Cohesion policy to the achievement of Lisbon and the EU 2020 objectives.
Following this morning's debate on the support package and on tighter, sounder financial and economic governance, we are now discussing a number of underlying dossiers that are important as regards the commitment required in connection with the EU 2020 strategy.
Take, for example, the flagship projects that will also require our joint support before long.
Well, then, both the Cortés Lastra report and my report on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development concern policy synergy with a view to increasing output, or results, for Europe.
In my report, together with my fellow Members, I have made a series of proposals for improvements throughout the research/innovation/production chain with a view to greater effectiveness.
We must also realise the importance of the territorial dimension laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon.
If the Union invests money, there should also be cooperation between the ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the own-initiative report on which we are voting this week is of particular symbolic importance at a time when the markets are unable to assess the risks associated with the economic situation in the euro area.
Having demanded severe budget adjustment policies, they now doubt the capacity of Member Sates to kick-start their growth and, hence, to obtain the tax revenue necessary to pay the interest on their debt.
The first aim of our report was precisely to determine the optimum time for launching policies for emerging from the crisis.
This is why, in our report, we proposed that particular attention be paid to the structural deficit indicator rather than the focus being ... (The President cut off the speaker) This is why, in our report, we proposed that particular attention be paid to the structural deficit indicator rather than the focus being on the current account deficit, the scale of which is due to the deterioration in the actual budget deficit.
The European Central Bank and the Commission have finally come up with monetary and budgetary instruments which should enable us to improve economic governance in the euro area.
Europe needs policies which are motivated by a real desire to strengthen the Union.
If you and your group are not up to this task, if you are no longer capable of representing the general interest, you can be sure that our citizens will be able to draw their own conclusions, for the future of the euro area is now at stake.
I would like to thank all of them for their availability and interesting contributions.
Having changed the title, which now includes the reference to the Europe 2020 strategy, the main aim of the report is to defend Cohesion policy as a strong, well-financed policy, and one that is present in all European Union regions, as well as its key role in the Europe 2020 strategy.
The report was approved practically unanimously by the Committee on Regional Development: 40 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 vote against.
The first part of the report makes a brief analysis of the contribution of the Cohesion policy to the Lisbon Strategy and points to the limitations of the involvement of regional and local authorities, of the social, economic and civil society actors in the Lisbon Strategy, which made its adoption, communication and effectiveness difficult.
The report also calls for the need for assessments, not only of the actual expenditure, but of the real impact as well.
The second part deals with recommendations for the future Europe 2020 strategy and highlights the importance of the regions, multi-level governance and the principle of partnership, basic pillars of the Cohesion policy that must be incorporated into the Europe 2020 strategy as a prior and necessary condition for its successful implementation.
This part underlines the key role of education, training, research and innovation, the importance of facilitating the establishment of the so-called knowledge triangle, and the need to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which quite often play a pioneering role in innovation.
Specifically, in order to foster the leverage effect of investment in research and development, in education and in training, we defend the need to increase the synergies between the National Strategic Reference Frameworks and the National Reform Programmes, as well as greater coordination and coherence between the different European, national and regional policies linked to strategy objectives.
In conclusion, the report defends a solid and well-financed Cohesion policy for the future, one that is present in all European regions and which has a key role to play in the Europe 2020 strategy.
Strategies and courses of action that are intended to breathe new life into the European Single Market and the European Market ought to be based on a pragmatic, extensive and comprehensive agreement which is inclusive of all Member States and which focuses primarily on the priorities that the Member States are truly willing to take on.
Europe needs to develop 2020 strategies enabling the market to be the leading agent in economic regeneration while, at the same time, generating acceptance by the citizens by protecting their interests, by the consumers by defending their rights, and by small and medium enterprises by providing them with the right incentives.
It is also encouraging that I received positive reactions from Commissioner Barnier and Commissioner Dalli regarding my proposal on the top 20 frustrations as expressed by European citizens, on the creation of a collective remedy mechanism and on a communication strategy specifically targeted at every day problems experienced by our citizens.
Unfortunately, in the past years, the Single Market has not managed to convince our citizens that it represents their interests and aspirations.
What is even more alarming is that our citizens and consumers are experiencing an increasing sense of uncertainty and lack of faith in the Market.
We need to come to terms with the fact that the traditional definition of the Single Market as something solely tied to the economic dimension needs to be revamped.
The European Single Market is in danger of becoming extremely weak and therefore irrelevant due to the protectionist attitudes that the crisis brought along with it.
In the final analysis, the predominant system is one that succeeds in striking a balance between a vibrant and competitive economy that incentivises innovation and job creation and which provides consumer protection as well as social and environmental safeguards required by our citizens.
On the other hand, I hope that you share my concern, Mr President, because, on behalf of this House, you raised an extremely important question with President Van Rompuy, on 10 May, which relates to the following.
With regard to the adoption of the employment guidelines, this year - dare I say it, as an exceptional measure - as part of a special partnership between the Commission and the European Parliament, and in a spirit of good cooperation with the Council, bearing in mind the somewhat revised timetable - the employment guidelines are normally published at the end of the previous year; this year, they were published in April and, even though they commit us to a long cycle for the years to come, we will have to deliberate them before the spring European Council - you kindly supported, on behalf of us all, the request we sent to President Van Rompuy calling for the European Council to grant the European Parliament the right to exercise its powers under the Treaty of Lisbon itself.
As regards the challenge of these employment guidelines, which will be a factor in the implementation of the 2020 strategy, we must draw the attention of the authorities to their importance at a time when 17% of Europeans are living below the poverty line - I would point out that these figures are taken from 2007, that is to say, from even before the start of the crisis - and when 23 million of our fellow citizens are going to end up unemployed.
Then, the other issue relates to the relationship and consistency between the various policies, because the Commission clearly tells us that it has fundamentally changed things in this 2020 strategy, since it has reduced the number of targets.
I believe that fundamental change must be about much more than simply reducing the number of targets.
This is why, faced with this challenge, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs calls on the authorities to be aware of how public investment might be reduced in these fields, at the very time when weak growth and reduced private investment cannot take up the slack and, therefore, ensure the recovery of public finances in the short term.
This is a crucially important timetabling issue, and we cannot but regret that the Ministers for Economic and Monetary Affairs were able to argue for a withdrawal of non-conventional employment support and unemployment reduction measures, when the Ministers for Social Affairs had not been consulted in what we know is a tragic employment and social affairs situation in our European Union.
author. - Mr President, the EU 2020 strategy proposes action to enhance the performance of education systems, reinforce the attractiveness of Europe's higher education, open up more mobility and training programmes for young people, modernise labour markets, boost labour mobility and develop skills and competences to increase labour market participation.
This has been endorsed by the Spring Council, which stated that key objectives requiring action at EU level included better conditions for research and development, improved education levels, a reduction in early school leavers and increased participation of youth, older workers and low-skilled workers in the labour market.
However, the global economic crisis has led to budget cuts in the education sector in Member States across the European Union.
Some Member States, such as France, have been doing well, but the problem is that there is a divergent level of funding across Member States.
In order for the EU 2020 strategy to work, we need a strong, coordinated approach.
I am therefore asking for the Commission to explain, firstly, how it intends to ensure that Member States make good on their commitments to the educational goals in the 2020 strategy by ensuring that this area receives sufficient support and funding and is not forgotten amid the rush to balance the books in the light of the economic crisis and, secondly, how it intends to secure extra budgetary means for these important EU-level strategies and programmes.
This is the time to respond and to act and, as far as possible, together, in this context of uncertainty and crisis.
I will not go back over the long debate which was held this morning with my colleague, Commissioner Rehn.
It is obvious that we have to put in place instruments for improved coordination of our economic policies, and we think that this Europe 2020 strategy may be the first instrument of a new, strengthened and coordinated economic policy.
This is why, on the basis of the Commission proposals, the European Council adopted five common objectives: an employment rate of 75%, 3% of GDP invested in research and development, as well as a restriction on leaving school too early, increasing the number of people with a university diploma to 40%, and the 20-20-20 targets in the field of energy and climate change.
Quantified indicators for education and social inclusion will have to be set at the June European Council.
Therefore, more efficient governance mechanisms have been proposed, which require the involvement of the Member States, as well as the Commission, at every level of the monitoring process.
Finally, the Commission is calling on the European Parliament to do what it does so well and play a still greater role in this new strategy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (BG) Mr President, Commissioners, if we were discussing the Europe 2020 strategy without the economic crisis having occurred, everything would be fine.
The problem is that in the current crisis and after what has happened, the Europe 2020 strategy is not ambitious and dynamic enough.
The problem which all the questions asked in recent weeks have been about is whether there is a sufficient degree of coordination, as was the case even up to now in European policies, for the European Union to make progress.
Instead, we should ensure that the one complements the other and that both of them are strong so that we can achieve the objectives of Europe 2020.
The citizens are our most important allies in achieving our joint objectives.
Mr President, the Europe that we are taking decisions about today is also the one that decides how Europe will look in 2020.
It is a serious problem that so many of the decisions continue to be short-sighted and governed by a right-wing philosophy where economies in crisis are put on a starvation diet.
I call on the Commission to make a serious effort to bring about a change of course so that we abandon our blind faith in market solutions, we regulate the markets and we make major investments in those things that are for the good of everyone.
This also requires investment, but it may make an impact on the current figure of 28 million registered unemployed.
For us to be able to master this crisis, we need trade union rights and we need Europe's workers to be made into stakeholders.
European integration has, until now, focused on creating new projects without making sure that they work properly.
The mistakes that have been made can be corrected and the Union can still work for - and with - its citizens.
The flagship proposals in the Commission's Europe 2020 strategy are important tools to create that Europe, provided that we can make them come true.
In some countries, the participation of women in the labour market is as low as 40%, and this is shameful.
Youth unemployment in Spain, at 44%, is devastating.
We have endless opportunities to create green jobs, but our policies must be aimed in the same direction.
We need to strengthen the Growth and Stability Pact, and we fully support the package of Commissioner Olli Rehn.
That would re-establish our trust in you as a Commission, and maybe, if we can cooperate on decision making, citizens' trust in us.
The Commission has a right to initiate legislation, but, today, on these issues, that right has become a duty.
I want to refer to some points on that in a moment but I just want to support what Mrs Berès said about the wide-ranging nature of the debate this afternoon.
There are some really important contributions from many colleagues but, frankly, and I say this to the Commission and Commissioner Barnier, this also reflects the nature of the EU 2020 document.
Instead of being involved in this strategic cross-roads, what we have experienced on almost every single point that we have debated here in this House in recent months is getting caught up in the power play between the institutions in spite of, or perhaps even because of, the Treaty of Lisbon.
Both the EU 2020 strategy and, for example, the integrated employment guidelines, which the Chair of the Employment Committee has spoken about, regard Parliament as a body that is merely to be informed or consulted.
Also, all the individual reports tabled here today far from present an overall view of the demands or the positions of the European Parliament regarding the European strategy.
In the last parliamentary term, the European Parliament put specific demands to the Council and Member States concerning the fight against poverty, the introduction of minimum income benefits and an EU-wide poverty-proof minimum wage.
On the contrary: there is even the risk that objectives, such as the fight against poverty and the reduction of poverty by 25%, may even disappear from the current strategy text because they do not accord with the skill and the interests of the Member States or the governments.
However, as long as the European Union, the institutions and their specific policies do not send out signals to those who are marginalised, who live in poverty or who have no work, or to young people who have no future prospects, we will not be able to win these groups over to the idea that a common European Union is a future-proof project.
That is a democratic deficit which the current EU 2020 strategy does nothing to address and we should be fighting it together with our citizens.
The proposed EU 2020 strategy aiming to contribute to economic growth and employment seeks to provide this.
The second condition I wish to draw attention to is the undesirability of the European Union turning its attention to the policy fields of social affairs, employment and social cohesion.
Here, too, it is true that it is in restraint that the master is revealed; the European master. (NL) Today, we are discussing Europe's economy from a long-term perspective, and how to achieve sustainable economic growth.
All that this European Union has done is to increase bureaucracy, create unnecessary rules - particularly in my country, the Netherlands - and bring tax increases, mass immigration, crime and a lack of security.
Now there is a need for action, for decisions and for restored confidence in public finances.
The rapporteur, Mr Hoang Ngoc, is saying that we should prolong those policies and that we should wait before reducing the deficits.
It is therefore right that one chapter in the EU 2020 strategy is Innovation Union.
With that, it is important that we enhance the synergies of research funding and regional development policy.
Governments cannot create jobs; they need to be created in the economy itself. (DE) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you have recognised that the transition to a green economic development must begin now, because climate change will put the EU's economic successes at risk.
However, what is missing in the Europe 2020 strategy is a link between environmental change in the economy and a green employment strategy.
I address those words to Commissioner Andor.
It forms a cornerstone for a green employment strategy and is thereby key to the success of the Europe 2020 strategy.
It creates the chance for a better result, and is an important factor in our competitiveness at global level.
Therefore, common freedoms and a common market, and not extending Union competences, should be the central principle of the Union's economic policy. (PT) Mr President, we would like to say in this debate that it is time to stop playing word games and talk about the real problems that the majority of women and men are experiencing in our countries; about suffering; about the more than 85 million people living in poverty in a European Union which is one of the richest parts of the world and in which scandalous profits continue to be made without any measures being taken to check them.
We want to talk about the lack of job security and poor pay faced by workers; about the young people and women who cannot find work; about the 23 million unemployed.
Let us be clear: what is being proposed in the Europe 2020 strategy is the same path as was there at the start of the crisis.
They prefer to hide the fact that only a break from these policies will allow a change of course and that only this can bring social progress.
We still do not know if the crisis will act to deepen the differences between different regions of Europe.
Historical differences in the level of development of regions may grow, and we may also witness the appearance of new differentiating factors.
Both the Europe 2020 strategy and Cohesion policy aim to achieve the same goal.
Creating new and separate thematic funds to respond to new challenges would be a waste of time and money, and would also delay realisation of the 2020 strategy and condemn it to the fate of the Treaty of Lisbon.
That is precisely what the policy of the European Union should be based on.
In your report, you also quite rightly point out that an adequate assessment of the social, consumer-related, environmental and economic impacts of the internal market, and the decisions we make in the internal market, are of particular importance.
That is precisely what has been missing so far or what has not been made sufficiently visible to our citizens.
In addition, you call for the development of a strategy for improved communication of the social advantages of the internal market.
I am sure it is no secret that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would have liked to have seen a much more ambitious 2020 plan than is currently on the table, with a genuine desire to define how Europe is to support itself in future and with a desire to set high social and employment targets.
However, right now we have a situation in which the Member States had no intention of developing the plan that the Commission put forward.
Secondly, other Member States, including my own, Denmark, have criticised the definition of poverty.
However, these arguments cannot hide the fact that this is about one thing: whether we actually want to combat poverty in Europe.
Yes, of course we do, and that is precisely why we need specific objectives with regard to social matters and in the area of employment.
I hope that Parliament and the Commission will take the lead and urge those Member States that are hesitating to instead commit to a social Europe in 2020.
If we want to avoid repeating the failure of the Lisbon Strategy, we must not continue to ignore the voice of local authorities, who form part of public administration in all of the Member States and whose role is key to the fulfilment of any European policy.
I would therefore like to call on the Commission to monitor thoroughly the method of linking local authorities in to the whole process. (EL) Mr President, the current Lisbon Strategy has simply been renamed Europe 2020 strategy.
In essence, the Commission's proposals as a whole do not overturn the current objectives, and not only were these objectives not attained, but progress over the last ten years has shown that the standard of living of the citizens of the European Union has slipped.
In our opinion, if the Stability Pact is not replaced by a pact to achieve social objectives, the noose around the people's neck will tighten still more and greater sacrifices will be needed. (FI) Mr President, when I was studying at the University of Helsinki in the 1980s, the Soviet Union was still going strong.
For that, we have to bake our bread before we distribute it, as we say in Finland.
Small enterprises are crucial.
It is high time that the Europe 2020 strategy put a stop to hedge fund speculators.
However, when it comes to implementing the adopted measures, it should be ensured that Parliament is involved, within the scope of its powers, and can exert its democratic control in appropriate conditions.
Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs voted a few days ago for the package on the supervision of financial activities.
However, Europe is at a turning point if it does not find a new modus operandi.
It is very important that we do not forget, when setting out new objectives, about our previous policy, the Cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy or, if I look at Commissioner Andor, about renewing the European social model.
I am in favour of the Commission monitoring national budgets before they are submitted to the Member States' parliaments. (SV) Mr President, my contribution concerns Mr Hoang Ngoc's report on sustainable finances within the public sector.
Fortunately, a very broad majority in the committee was also of the opinion that there was a need for tougher measures to remedy the situation we find ourselves in.
The Commission has brought forward very good proposals in recent weeks.
It is important to remember that we are not only dealing with our current borrowing, but also with future challenges such as Europe's demographics, its ageing population and so on.
However, we must also look at the economy of the future.
This means that the Structural Funds must ultimately be used to promote new green technology.
It should be a new strategy that all of our countries should want to follow to re-launch and re-energise the internal market of the EU.
The EU should be encouraging a new economic dynamism in the European research area, creating networks for excellence, research clusters for integrated projects based on innovation in new products and services, looking at new processes and technologies and new business concepts.
South Wales has five significant pharmaceutical development companies with world-class technology.
The situation calls for real solidarity.
However, the Treaty of Maastricht rules out any solidarity between countries in the euro area.
Far from being our shield and protection, EU directives have frequently stolen a march on the WTO.
For EU 2020 to be a success and for the mountains of cash that remain to be spent to be used to stimulate economic growth and support competition, two types of intervention are needed: simplification and review.
Simplification will be a key to disentangling access to these resources from paralysing red tape: regions, citizens and businesses want to be able to act more freely to unlock their potential.
Now as never before, our Cohesion policy needs to be able to prove its strength as a multilevel governance tool, by giving a genuine voice to the problems that affect our territory and, in Brussels, formulating its long-awaited response regarding the future of our social and economic model.
This is the only way in which the EU 2020 strategy will succeed in not being a bad copy of a bad original. (PT) Mr President, we are facing accelerating global change that has devastating consequences for our economic, political and social systems and, therefore, for all our citizens.
The European Union must, therefore, identify common causes and allies, and act in a clear and united way on the world stage.
If we do not take the necessary strong measures and collective responsibility, Europe will be consigned to marginalisation and impoverishment.
Only a strong Europe that respects collective rules will be able to give an adequate response to the new era.
So, the 2020 strategy and the integrated Europe 2020 guidelines constitute essential elements of a new cycle of growth and employment in Europe.
It is also essential that everything be done to facilitate the Member States' transposition of their national objectives if the strategy is to be successful and correctly implemented. (DE) Mr President, the current Cohesion policy started life with the title of the Lisbon Strategy.
However, I firmly believe that the Cohesion policy can, and will, make an enormous contribution to the Europe 2020 strategy, not just because we command a considerable budget in comparison with other European policies but, above all, because the Cohesion policy allows us to have sustainable development in our regions and ensures good monitoring of the restructuring processes and challenges in our regions.
However, there is one core issue here that I would like to clarify once again, and that goes for our group as well: our Cohesion policy can only work if economic development is considered to be equally as important as social development and providing training for workers.
As a result, I believe that local and regional authorities must be involved even in the drafting phase in order to guarantee that really effective results will be achieved later on.
At the same time, better governance at a number of levels guarantees the effective implementation of the Cohesion policy at national, regional and local level.
As beneficiaries of these policies, I believe that Member States must maintain the key role which they have in the decision-making process regarding the Cohesion policy within the Council.
Finally, I wish to welcome the acknowledgement given to the role of the Structural Funds in achieving the strategy's objectives.
However, I want to draw your attention to the fact, once again, that we must avoid the pitfall of using these funds in future as a means for punishing Member States.
This approach is gradually being adopted, for example, in the Baltic Sea, but it has not been taken up in the 2020 strategy, and therefore could very well be nipped in the bud when the funds for its implementation need to be released.
The 2020 strategy being presented to us is therefore, in our view, characterised by a highly conventional and technocratic approach; it lacks political vision. (PL) The EU 2020 strategy is a document intended to establish the direction of the Union's development over the next decade.
With this in mind, we should appreciate the amendments adopted by Parliament to the Commission's proposal which, in particular, concern strengthening the common market, reducing protectionism, continuing Cohesion policy and supporting agriculture.
However, and this still needs to be stressed, there is a need to conduct climate policy more fairly, in other words, in a way which does not, by its excessive burdens, mean the countries of Central and Eastern Europe will always be the poor relatives of the European Union.
Finally, I would like to point out that the central concept of European Union strategy is innovation, but we should remember to continue Cohesion policy and support for agriculture, because it is this which makes it possible for the poorer regions to bridge the gap in development. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, an industrial policy that focuses exclusively on companies operating internationally and using advanced technologies is not the best route to success.
In particular, this strategy should guarantee conditions that place small and medium-sized enterprises on an equal footing with their competitors outside the EU by adopting safeguard clauses and strong, effective measures to combat the extremely serious problem of counterfeiting, including through effective trade defence instruments.
It is important that governance of the Europe 2020 strategy should not rest in the hands of the Commission alone, but should be carried out at different levels, including the national and macro-regional levels.
The challenges facing Europe over the next few years are enormous.
Europe's major problem, as I said, is a lack of competitiveness, and this is the problem that the 2020 strategy is intended to tackle.
We must increase our competitiveness in relation to other countries and the Member States must put their economies in order while, at the same time, investing in the future.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of Europe's economy.
We therefore need to take them seriously in this strategy.
Finally, I would like to say that administrative burdens are also something that we have to struggle with all the time.
Finally, we must help small and medium-sized enterprises to enter the export markets. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are all running a serious risk of focusing purely on the crisis.
These are subjects for the Member States.
We need to start talking about growth and development again.
Otherwise, the future could be even more terrifying.
I am not particularly proud of this, but it is true: for a period, we had interest rates of 500%!
They were heading towards 2 000%, which meant we were well on the way to banana republic status, but even the 500% rates were not enough - our currency crashed and George Soros won.
The same applies to Europe - good order provides stability and growth. (EL) Europe still faces a multi-dimensional crisis today, which is hitting employment and low incomes particularly hard.
When the European Union started, poverty only existed where there was no work.
At European level, there is no protection against redundancy and national legislation is being watered down, as in Greece.
Proposals have been made.
For example, when undertaking the essential reforms of financial services, we must remember that innovative businesses and those employers need access to capital in global markets.
Our Member States also need to access those global capital markets and, whilst all eyes are focused on the European Stabilisation Fund, and whether it has achieved any current reduction in the immediate volatility, fundamentally, long-term confidence will only be achieved if, as well as this ambitious growth, our deficits are brought under control and public finances themselves are seen to be sustainable.
Because of my remit, I would like to thank Mr van Nistelrooij and Mr Cortés Lastra, in particular, for their reports.
I thank also all those who have been intensively involved in this work because they will have a major say in the shaping of regional policy and because both reports have shown how important it is to consider all regions in Europe and that regional policy can and must be a policy for all regions, and that in future, it should be.
It was, after all, not just the idea, but the subsequent implementation of the concept of earmarking that has made a significant impact here, especially in the fields of innovation and research.
However, the regions that have local structures and individual project developers have had, and will have in future, the possibility of carrying out individual projects and achieving objectives under one general umbrella.
Of course, we need points of emphasis and we need to set priorities, and that is the idea behind earmarking.
In addition, the strategic report I recently presented on the reports of the 27 Member States concerning the state of implementation hitherto of the current programming period shows how sustainable and sensible earmarking actually has been, because EUR 63 billion of the EUR 93 billion allocated so far has been spent on Lisbon objectives, that is, for research, innovation, investment in training and, finally, on transport and infrastructure, in the broadest sense of those terms, as well.
Regional policy - and this was shown very clearly by the van Nistelrooij report - is a driving force behind innovation which is able to move things forward and to make and keep European society more globally competitive.
It has been demonstrated that out of the more than 450 operational programmes, only 246 are focusing on research and innovation.
This quite clearly shows that points of emphasis, such as research and development, are necessary and that that must remain the case.
For this reason, it was obvious in the current programming period that we should allocate just EUR 86 billion for this area, which is three times more than in the 2000-2006 period.
However, we need to ensure better coordination of course, especially in the areas of research and innovation.
On the contrary, we need to ensure circulation of knowledge and of the people involved, particularly when it comes to research, innovation and development.
That must be one of EU 2020's major steps forward in comparison with Lisbon, one which really enables us to break down European objectives into national, regional and, ultimately, local objectives and thereby make the strategies tangible, visible and comprehensible.
Finally, all regions can benefit from successful investments made in individual regions because, we have to keep remembering that two thirds of the European exports of each individual Member State are destined for the European Union, to the 26 other countries.
That must be one of our objectives.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, there are five plus two questions put forward concerning economic governance and Europe 2020.
Honourable Members, the first question is on how the Commission intends to strengthen the monitoring of the broad economic policy guidelines and how the Commission intends to ensure an active role of the national parliaments and the European Parliament in the multilateral surveillance process.
In reply to this first question, I would like to refer to the Commission communication on Europe 2020, in which the Commission proposes that the European Parliament should play an important role, not only in its capacity as a colegislator, but also as a driving force for mobilising citizens and the national parliaments.
The Commission also emphasises the importance of establishing a permanent dialogue between various levels of government, including national, regional and local authorities and national parliaments, as well as social partners and representatives of civil society.
The second question concerns the Stability and Growth Pact and the additional instruments the Commission may foresee to complement this pact.
Here, I would like to refer to our communication on reinforcing economic policy coordination, which we adopted last week.
In this communication the Commission set out proposals on reinforcing compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact and deeper fiscal policy coordination.
In the euro area in particular, a more far-reaching approach to the assessment of budgetary policies seems justified, including a more pervasive review of the weaknesses of national budgetary plans ahead of their adoption.
The Commission also proposes to reinforce the macro-economic prevention framework for euro area Member States by establishing a permanent crisis resolution framework.
The third question concerns the differences between two Commission papers: on the one hand, the communication on public finances in the EMU 2006 of June 2006 and, on the other hand, the 2008 EMU 10 report.
At the same time, the lessons of more than 10 years of EMU and the recent impact of the crisis call for an updated but still consistent assessment.
Last week's communication on reinforcing economic policy coordination focuses on making the pact more rigorous with regard to both its preventive and corrective arm.
We propose reinforcing the Stability and Growth Pact framework, both in its preventive and corrective dimensions; broadening the surveillance of macro-economic imbalances and competitiveness trends within the euro area; introducing a 'European semester' to strengthen ex ante integrated economic policy coordination; and, finally, working towards a robust and permanent crisis resolution mechanism for euro area Member States in fiscal distress.
The fourth question refers to the task force established by the European Council in March 2010 in order to improve economic governance in the Union.
The Commission will cooperate constructively in the interest of the Union and in full respect of its right of initiative.
The fifth and final question is about the trust that needs to be rebuilt in European banks and financial markets and in the European project in general.
So these elements, in my view, are equally important in restoring trust in the European project.
This leads me to the two questions on the Europe 2020 strategy.
In line with the conclusions of the Spring European Council, in particular, as regards the headline targets for the Europe 2020 strategy, the Commission has started working with the Member States on setting national targets to underpin the headline targets.
To facilitate this work, the Employment Committee Indicators Group has produced two alternative technical approaches that show what each Member State would need to do to ensure the EU meets the 75% target in terms of employment levels.
These discussions were very fruitful and allowed us to gain a first idea of where Member States stand and to understand the very peculiar economic circumstances that are a feature of each Member State.
If there are discrepancies between the EU target and the sum of the national targets, we intend to continue the discussion with the Member States to see how national or EU-level action could bring the EU closer to the targets.
The European Council has said that it will review the headline target in June on the basis of further work.
The Spring Council asked the Commission to help the Member States to identify suitable indicators underpinning the EU headline target for social inclusion, in particular, through poverty reduction.
Together, they reflect the multifaceted nature of poverty and the range of situations in the Member States.
While a number of delegations have expressed support for the Commission proposal within the Social Protection Committee, some insist on including a labour market dimension in the EU target set.
On governance, I wish to reassure you that we set great store by your role in the new strategy and by your input.
President Barroso has made it clear that involving Parliament more closely in Europe 2020 is one of his main concerns for his second term.
Concerning education and training, which is the subject of the second question on Europe 2020, I would just like to say the following.
As early as the crisis recovery plan of November 2008, the Commission called on Member States to retain investment in education and training, and we will maintain this focus.
In general, Member States have responded positively to the call to target the recovery measures at smart investment in resources of future growth.
On the contrary, many recovery packages have included measures to support wider participation in education, particularly in higher education.
In spite of the crisis, education budgets announced for 2010 have remained constant or increased in many Member States.
However, we do see signs of planned decreases in the education budgets of other countries.
We should bear in mind that some governments had already planned - and in some cases executed - general cuts in public budgets before the onset of the crisis.
Let us not forget that we also intervene in this area through the Structural Funds.
The European Social Fund, with a budget of EUR 76 billion over the 2007-2013 period, helps young people move from education to the world of work.
It also helps people to return to education to renew and expand their skills.
All of this demonstrates that the Europe 2020 strategy reinforces the concept of the knowledge-based economy and that education and training are at the heart of this.
While I can understand that public spending needs to be diversified in order for Europe to fulfil its 2020 vision, I also believe that this spending needs to form part of national fiscal policy.
The drop in birth rates and an ever-increasing ageing population call for a change in policy if we are to guarantee fiscal sustainability.
With regard to demographic change patterns, the European Union needs a motivational strategy for senior citizens in order to keep them in employment for a longer period of time.
It is essential that we consider such strategies in light of the specific requirements among the various Member States.
This will not only reduce the dependency on social services but will also ensure a higher number of contributors to these schemes.
Secondly, for the past 18 months, Member States and the EU have focused almost exclusively on the stabilisation of financial institutions.
They are looking for support from Member States and they are looking to the EU to put in place a framework that is conducive to job creation, to entrepreneurship and to the support of SMEs, but crucially, that framework must link growth in the economy with the creation of decent jobs and an improvement in the well-being of all citizens, especially those below the poverty line.
This crisis is every bit as real and as immediate as the economic crisis and, while I heard the Commissioner's comments on youth initiatives and I welcome them, there must be real coordination between, and strong influence on, Member States to translate those initiatives into concrete jobs. (PL) The 2020 strategy contains ambitious objectives with which it is difficult to argue, but the objectives are defined as if the European Union were already wealthy, free from worries and thinking only about building a successful future.
Meanwhile, we know there are many things to worry about and, above all, there are many differences between the level of development of the rich and poor countries and regions of Europe.
I note with astonishment that among the priorities of the strategy, there is no place for the development of agriculture, while we know, after all, that by 2050, the world has to increase its production of food by 70%, because there are more and more people in the world, and less and less land is being used for agricultural production.
Agriculture means food security, agriculture means ecological security, and these things are so important for us and for future generations.
I cannot imagine a responsible development strategy for the European Union which does not include concern for the development of European agriculture. (EL) Mr President, before speaking about the 2020 strategy, an answer is needed, I believe, to certain points made earlier by one or two members about the position of the Greek centre-right party on the support mechanism for the Greek economy.
The measures which are now being applied will certainly cause a deep recession and stagflation and the government decided on these measures itself, without any prior information or agreement with the other political parties in Greece and Greek society.
The majority in government refused any prior agreement which might have resulted in broad and necessary political and social assent.
I repeat, the New Democracy party did not oppose the European support mechanism of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.
We respect our partners' every last euro and we thank them for their support.
As regards our debate on the economic crisis and the 2020 strategy, I believe that the time has come for specific acts and tangible results.
That is why we need strong financial and economic governance because, without this 2020 strategy, it is at risk of failure and of following the precedent set by the Lisbon Strategy. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (FR) Mr Koumoutsakos, you do have some cheek!
I have just heard you talk about the Greek Government and how it did not bother to consult you, the various parties or civil society before implementing the measures.
Yet it is also my duty to highlight the responsibility of the previous government, which massaged the figures over many years, and the fact that your party was in power for at least two parliamentary terms.
The previous Greek Government took over an economy deeply in debt, very deeply in debt, an economy on rotten foundations, and these problems, chronic problems, deeply rooted over 30 years, were highlighted and dramatised by the huge international economic crisis.
This is the answer which I am giving you with a view to our engaging in self-criticism; but this is where the ancient saying 'let he who is without sin cast the first stone' applies. (MT) Mr President, never more than today has the importance of long-term sustainability of public finances been pushed to the forefront in such a dramatic manner.
However, now that many Member States of the European Union, including those in the euro area, have come to this unsustainable situation, we cannot simply reverse the situation and try to do so in as short a time as possible while ignoring the serious economic environment we find ourselves in.
We must help the weaker European Union countries to stimulate their economies through exports and therefore help to stimulate job growth prospects.
For instance, I would like to see a target of a 25% reduction of EU citizens living in poverty, as well as ensuring that those who are currently excluded from the labour market can gain access to good-quality work, and that, at the same time, we have targets to eradicate undeclared work.
We must also make sure that Member States invest in social security and social protection systems as well as guaranteeing access to rights, resources and universal services.
I would also like to see an EU-wide target to end street homelessness by 2015 by Member States, and to develop integrated homelessness strategies.
In all these areas, not only should Parliament be consulted more - and I was pleased that you did mention that - but NGOs working in the field as well.
As far as the open method of coordination is concerned in the social field, it needs to be strengthened.
We all know it has not worked as well as it could have done, but I believe it can work well in the future if the right mechanisms are put into place - but only if those mechanisms are put into place. (PL) The strategy is being adopted at the worst possible moment, when industrial production in Europe has fallen to the level of the 1990s and the gross domestic product of the European Union fell last year by 4%.
They are matters for which individual countries are responsible.
Greece and its population are the victims today of a predatory economic and financial system, a system which has seen the G20 countries fork out, all in all, several thousands of billions of dollars in a few days in order to save the banks, but which leaves Greece in agony for several months.
This is why I highly rate the report on including the Cohesion policy among the objectives to be achieved by the Treaty of Lisbon and the 2020 strategy, which provides invaluable guidelines.
We also need a strong Cohesion policy at the moment when the economic crisis is reducing the number of jobs and weakening our competitiveness and in the future too, so that we can confirm the European Union as being a strong global player.
Reliable benchmarks are needed for indicating the effectiveness and efficiency of the resources invested in this policy.
In order to determine evaluation indicators, the Commission should consider and propose a clear definition of the concept of 'territorial cohesion' because this is precisely what appears in the Treaty of Lisbon.
This will provide a concrete basis for the policy, as well as for institutions and citizens. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteurs for their outstanding work and to thank the Commissioners for their significant, valuable reflections.
I believe that it is our shared responsibility to make this strategy much more a part of the solution.
In the vast majority of the European Union's languages, the name EU 2020 strategy has no meaning whatsoever.
It is hard to imagine that a community of more than 500 million citizens could identify with a strategy, based on a notion providing a recipe for resolving the problems in their personal lives whose name is so intangible and distant from the realities of their personal lives.
These are the points I wish to offer for your consideration. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of the European Union 2020 strategy effectively marks the end of the previous Lisbon Strategy phase and it will have to tackle the negative structural effects that the financial, economic and social crisis has produced and is continuing to produce.
Infrastructures are the cornerstone of the relaunch of innovation policy in industry, SMEs, manufacturing consortiums or research institutes and in the relationship between these and universities and local institutions.
It is an ambitious yet concrete strategy which seeks to make Europe's digital market stronger in a global economy as well as connecting many Europeans to an open Internet.
The EU 2020 strategy can be different.
Qualitative growth in the economy and employment on the one hand must be reconciled with social equality and with sustainability.
Our society must be integrative and integrate young people, for example, through appropriate education and training, so that they can develop professionally and personally.
Despite all the necessary consolidation of national budgets - which is exactly what we are going through and debated this morning - there is one thing we must not seek to save money on: investment in our citizens - in economic, sustainable and social terms.
We always say we need jobs, but what matters to me is that these jobs are good, that there is social security, that people do not have to receive subsidies and that they can actually make a living from these jobs.
The ever more precarious nature of working life, the increasing income inequality and also growing poverty - which many speakers have talked about today - must finally be brought to an end with the EU 2020 strategy.
It is understandable that, today, the attention of Europeans is focused on increasing the speed of development and on job creation, but we cannot, when building a strategy for the European Union, restrict ourselves for many years just to economic debate.
The Europe 2020 strategy should contain significant reference to the role of culture in achieving the social and economic objectives which have been set.
After all, these priorities are going to influence distribution of the future budget, so we should maintain the possibility of financing such areas as development of cultural infrastructure and protection of cultural heritage as part of the European Regional Development Fund.
In the European Union's 2020 strategy, we should emphasise the significant influence of culture on social and economic development in the Union, for after all, it is intellectual capital and the creative industries which have brought Europe renown.
Culture must not be neglected in European policy.
We must not dismiss all proposals to increase its role in European Union policy simply by saying that it is a competence of the Member States.
Europe, today, is proud of projects such as the European Capital of Culture, but this is a project which was created by European cities, and it is these cities which bear the main burden of this spectacular programme.
I expect, therefore, greater determination from the European Commission to ensure that the final version of the 2020 strategy includes culture. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 10 years since the introduction of the Lisbon Strategy and on the eve of the Europe 2020 strategy, in the middle of a full economic, social and employment crisis, we know that we cannot come out of this crisis, nor lay the foundations for new and sustainable growth and a new social cohesion, as you have said, unless we strengthen the mechanisms and instruments that the European Union has at its disposal to sustain investment in the knowledge triangle: education, training and research.
Just now, Commissioner, you confirmed that as regards this objective, some European governments are performing well, others a little less so.
Today, we find ourselves at the beginning of a new, more problematic, more difficult decade, and as regards the proposals that have been presented to us so far, I partly agree with them, although when reading them thoroughly, I still see too many shortcomings.
We need to increase the possibilities available for women in research and development and innovation, and train them in new green jobs.
Member States cannot neglect to expand, improve and implement the Barcelona targets in all Member States.
We need the true commitment of the European Union and all Member States by involving all people when working towards a smart, green progressive society.
We all know the failures of that strategy were caused, firstly, by basing the strategy on the responsibility of individual Member States in the open method of coordination, and the successes came, among other things, from 'Lisbonisation' or the inclusion of certain of the Lisbon objectives in Cohesion policy.
In relation to this, we have to ask how to approach the new strategy.
This means we need to use individual policies to put the strategy into effect, but the strategy, as previous experience shows, will only be successful if individual policies are integrated with each other.
That is why this EU 2020 strategy is a very important document, and I am one of those who say more Europe and not less Europe.
More Europe means something like root canal treatment: Member States will be obliged to accomplish the targets that are set out in this EU 2020 strategy. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Europe 2020 strategy - to be honest, I do not feel like discussing the Europe 2020 strategy at all.
The decision makers in the European Union need to have quick reflexes, to act when needed, because if Mrs Merkel had decided in time and if the European Union had taken the measures it needed to take, we would have saved a lot of money for the citizens of Europe.
In order for the European Union to be strong economically and to count globally, it needs its citizens.
The citizens must be healthy and educated and must have work.
The single market must be centred on the citizen and must be a single market with a human face. (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
The underlying cause for our difficulties today is quite simple - European countries have been living beyond their means far too long, spending vastly more than they are able to earn.
A year and a half ago, Latvia experienced a crisis similar to the crisis that we are now experiencing in the rest of Europe; namely, the financial markets attacked our currency and had lost all confidence in it.
I urge the Commission to come up with proposals which will ensure a stronger delivery mechanism for the EU 2020 strategy to make sure that all its targets will be met with action and not just words. (EL) The Lisbon Strategy set high targets, but Europe did not manage to implement them.
We are moving towards a new strategy for the next decade, to be true, and in an exceptionally difficult and unfortunate environment.
In the New Democracy, in our centre-right party in Greece, we made it clear that we respect the money of the other European peoples being put into the support mechanism.
The Member States of the European Union borrow at a lower rate of interest and lend, give money to the mechanism and, via it to Greece, at a higher rate of interest.
We are not taking money from other nations. (EL) You are absolutely right Mrs Rapti.
Of course, Greece's borrowing requirements would be smaller and Greece would be able to raise money more easily on the markets, had there not been such a delay, six months now, on the part of the present Greek Government. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Niebler has already said a great deal that very much concerns me too.
I am greatly concerned about our future together in the EU.
One of our major objectives, the euro and its high monetary stability, is at risk of total collapse.
We are talking about Europe 2020, but we do not even know what Europe will look like in 2011.
However, I would like to highlight again the importance of towns and cities here, because they will play a key role in achieving the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy.
Towns and cities are the driving force of economic growth in Europe.
Key words here are social integration, the environment and transport, for example, but also demographic change.
Therefore, towns and cities have a particular role when it comes to actually improving the living conditions of citizens.
In addition, Europe's towns and cities are key players in the fields of innovation, research and education, and therefore play a fundamental role in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and the EU 2020 strategy.
All of this should be taken into account during the implementation of these strategies and during the shaping of the future course of the Cohesion policy. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the last two years have left millions of unemployed people in their wake, have been the cause of further national debt that will remain for many years still, and have put renewed pressure on and new tears in our social cohesion.
We must react in a timely and incisive manner, and, in order to avoid making the errors of judgment that the Lisbon Strategy succumbed to, Europe 2020 must be extremely realistic in its objectives and balanced in the goals it sets itself.
I shall conclude by saying that the Greek crisis and the economic and employment crisis in the whole of Europe testify to the fact that in order to safeguard social cohesion, development and stable national budgets, we need strong and solid economic governance at the European level, to enable European institutions, including Parliament, to take effective and preventive action. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all agreed on the major objectives of the EU 2020 strategy and, if we are all agreed on its objectives, we should now provide ourselves with the means to implement them.
However, I should like to speak in more detail about the crisis and young people.
I think that young people have been the main victims of this crisis, and that we must take advantage of the opportunity provided to us to put young people back at the heart of this Europe 2020 strategy.
Firstly, the EU 2020 strategy must be an inclusive strategy.
Furthermore, I also believe that this strategy must promote the upskilling of young people so as to eliminate the curse of unemployment among the young, because we all know that the transition from a learning environment to a first job is one of the major challenges faced by young people.
Finally, all young Europeans need to be given mobility opportunities and upskilled because what we need, above all else, is an innovative young generation.
This is why I do not want young people to be left out of this Europe 2020 strategy. (ES) Mr President, we approved the Lisbon Agenda with its very ambitious objectives in 2000.
It is also important that a Cohesion policy covering economic, social and territorial aspects be incorporated into the Europe 2020 strategy.
In short, if we want to be successful, we have to be able to count on the European regions, the towns and the cities and on a reformed Cohesion policy in line with the new situation. (RO) Europe 2020 must be a Europe for its citizens and meet their needs.
This is the approach which I consider must form the basis of this strategy.
It is important that, within the new European framework, we continue with the course of action promoting development and the objectives already set, which must be monitored for tangible results so as to achieve a positive impact.
Europe 2020 is a Europe where regions develop according to their specific potential and use the regional aspect of research, development and innovation for promoting economic development and increasing employment. (DE) Mr President, when we talk about Europe 2020, then we are, first and foremost, talking about the future of our continent: Where do we want to go?
We can see signs of that in the current Greek crisis and, here, we are all facing the problem of actually having failed to make our economy competitive enough to generate economic growth so that we are able to address these high government deficits.
I therefore urge the Commission, in particular, to create a climate of stringency, so that we can achieve these agreed objectives. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up on what Mr Seeber has already said.
We also need to involve local and regional authorities more in our structures and planning because, ultimately, they are the ones who have to implement tasks on the ground, and make it clear which tasks need to be fulfilled if we are to achieve the objectives we have quite rightly set for ourselves.
However, setting objectives without robustly and consistently addressing the status quo and the tasks to be completed and without analysing what needs to be done now makes little sense in my view.
We first need to focus on bringing our financial situation under control and ensuring that everyone adheres to these rules.
I think that is a very important point; no football team changes its manager every six months for him to come in with a different set of priorities which you cannot achieve in a short period of time.
Finally, I want to say that I also welcome the suggestion to empower the regions and the cities as part of this process. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 May, the EU, at the behest of the Ministers for the Economy and Finance, gave a firm response to the financial markets.
This is the problem with strategies.
Finally - and this is the most important issue to my mind - we must explain at a local level what is happening at EU level and obtain the public's approval.
European citizens woke up on Monday, 10 May to a new Europe.
As far as the first part is concerned, it has been much discussed, and it is high time that we set up a hedge against this market, so that we do not have to depend on anyone at all, but what is important is the locomotive, and for the locomotive to pull, we also need the means.
Regions and local authorities must be included in the design and implementation of policies if we want the 2020 strategy to bear any fruit in the medium term.
Our regions and cities are key agents in the development and implementation of a great deal of EU public investment related to growth and employment.
I would like to point out that the resources invested from 2000 to 2006 by way of the European Regional Development Fund have enabled the creation of 1 400 000 jobs in the European Union, as well as the building of over 2 000 km of motorways.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion represents a basic objective guaranteed by the treaties. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend a special greeting to the visitors to our Parliament who have followed this debate about one of the key issues for the European Union over the next ten years more attentively and in greater numbers than many of our Members.
We are conducting this debate in much too technocratic a way.
I grew up in a country where society was organised according to multiannual plans.
No matter what decisions we make for the European Union in the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, it is Member States, national governments and parliaments and regional and local authorities that will have to shoulder the implementation.
The united Europe can only work if we continue to build it jointly with national and regional institutions and with citizens.
Before we then confront Member States with a list of planned economy codes, which nobody at present knows how they are supposed to be achieved, and bearing in mind the uncertainties and turbulence in the economic and financial markets now and in the past few years and their impact on jobs and the social situation in Member States, what we need is an in-depth debate about where the European Union has been successful, where we can achieve common goals, for example, a pact with the EU's regions, and how we can create more community without infringing the subsidiarity principle.
If we did so, this debate could and would culminate in an overall strategy.
However, this debate - as we have seen from the example today - has only just begun, and we in the European Union should be the ones to lead it. (HU) Commissioner, I think that the guiding principle of any plan or strategy for European development must be to build a Europe that acts as a truly unified region in the service of European citizens.
If, by the end of the decade, we truly wish to create a more successful and competitive Europe, we need to pay serious attention to ensuring that our common values receive due respect, are strengthened and implemented.
I do hope I am not tainting the Commission document by linking its parts with reasoned argument, but I have kept within my time limit! (PL) The Europe 2020 strategy cannot do as much as we are saying, here, today.
It is not possible to do so much for just under 1% of GDP, because that is the value of the European Union budget.
Let us say clearly: there is not enough realism in our expectations of the Europe 2020 strategy, there are too many things to be done and too much hope being created, and the role of Member States has not been defined.
A rise in employment, reduction in poverty, education and, above all, economic growth are the big tasks and the main priorities which should be put into effect in the present situation, when we are in a crisis and should take action to revive the economy - because this is the number one problem in the Europe 2020 strategy: resuscitating the economy today. (RO) The EU's Cohesion policy has helped, and still helps, generate synergy with the research and innovation policies.
I believe that the regions should specialise in smart and green developments and define for themselves a set of innovation priorities based on the EU's objectives and their needs, and channel Community resources into these priorities which have been identified.
At the same time, they must promote models of success as part of the triangle of knowledge and the relations between businesses, research centres, universities and public authorities, especially those established via public-private partnerships.
I also believe that the exchange of knowledge within regional groups can be facilitated by the Structural Funds as well because European policies are consistently targeted at sustainable development, offering tangible results at regional level.
Research and development will provide us with the solutions to be taken into account in future in tackling successfully the major challenges we are facing, whether it involves the severe economic crisis or achieving the 2020 strategy's long-term objectives.
We must encourage local and regional economies to improve their ability to innovate and to identify themselves the most effective solutions as part of a bottom-up approach, thereby utilising regional and local potential. (RO) The European Union is facing an economic, financial and social crisis at present.
I believe that the European Union needs to make huge investments in the transport and energy infrastructure, in agriculture, health, education and research but, above all, in sustainable economic development.
The development of industrial production and, by extension, the creation of jobs in the EU requires investment in modernising European companies so that these developments can lead to greener production.
In the next 10 years, energy efficiency must be our top priority.
I believe that the time has come for the European Union to defend its fundamental principles and assets, and the biggest asset which the EU has is its 500 million European citizens. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the Europe 2020 strategy and its key priorities.
For the sake of our citizens, we need to pay attention to investment in growth and employment, in order to reduce unemployment and to create and secure jobs.
That also means strengthening the education sector and investing in education, research and innovation as cornerstones of a sustainable social market economy, and of a sustainable and more environmentally conscious economy. (SK) The 2020 strategy and the Lisbon Strategy have something in common: a belief that the economy must be managed.
The 2020 strategy states that easy access to credit and short-term thinking resulted in the behaviour which led to unsupported growth and major imbalances.
However, further on in the text of the strategy, it states that the Commission will seek to improve access to capital and to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to access finance.
Ladies and gentlemen, planned economies do not work, as all of our colleagues from the new Member States, including the Commissioner, can confirm.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this discussion today on the Europe 2020 strategy has been extremely interesting and useful for us, the Commission, as was this morning's discussion on economic governance.
I would like to thank you for this opportunity and for all the messages you sent on this strategy.
I am prepared to continue a discussion on various details and even nuances concerning the Europe 2020 strategy.
First of all, I would like to stress once again the importance of the strong involvement of the European Parliament in the various upcoming steps linked to the Europe 2020 strategy: first of all, the opinion of the European Parliament on the integrated guidelines; secondly, at a later stage, the role of the EP as colegislator on various proposals to be made under the flagship initiatives; and not forgetting, thirdly, the next multiannual financial framework to make sure the future EU budgets better reflect the priorities set for the European Union through the Europe 2020 strategy.
It is an essential tool for strengthening coordination of economic policy inside the EU-27 and, of course, within the euro area.
But we must aim for a different kind of job creation than in the past - a more sustainable one, not only in ecological terms but also economically, socially and financially sustainable.
I would like to stress once again the importance and the complexity of the fiscal problems that are currently on the agenda, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this financial and economic crisis is much more complex than just speaking about budget deficits.
We also have to address other causes of the recent recession - like the lack of an industrial policy and, to some extent, the lack of a complete success of our previous strategies - to achieve a knowledge-based economic growth and spread this growth to every region, every corner of the European Union.
But, if there is one lesson to be learned from the current economic crisis and from its predecessor, the Lisbon Strategy - and I agree with Mr Kelly that often this Lisbon Strategy is exposed to too harsh a criticism - it is that delivery of reforms is key for success.
We owe it to the citizens to provide them with solutions to exit the current crisis and enhance the coordination of economic policies, while, at the same time, preparing a return to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
The Commission counts on Parliament's support in making sure the Europe 2020 strategy can be launched rapidly and successfully.
Following the debate, I should like to express my thanks for your support for my report.
I wish to make a couple more comments; to raise a few points about social and economic governance in the short term.
Therefore, I propose a territorial pact with the regions, towns and cities, in addition to the agreement in the Council with the Member States and the Commission.
If these things do not reach citizens this time, I know one thing for sure, and that is that one can deck out large flagships, but they will soon be more flag than ship.
Therefore, I invite the Commission to enter into a territorial pact with the regions, towns and cities.
My report concerns synergy between research, development, innovation, production and employment in Europe.
We must fight against fragmentation, and so I urge Commissioner Andor to keep the European Social Fund intact in the regulations, and not to split it up as is sometimes suggested in this House.
In the little time I have available, I would like to reply to a few of my fellow Members' comments on my report.
I agree with Malcolm Harbour in that there does not seem to be much willingness to consider the Single Market as being the fundamental tool in the 2020 strategy - which is still not properly defined and developed.
Evelyne Gebhardt is also right in saying that today, it is clear that the Single Market, within the scope of the 2020 strategy, requires new momentum that calls for strong leadership on the part of all the Union's institutions, especially from the Commission's side, so that the Single Market can once again restore confidence and trust in our citizens.
This report on the contribution of the Cohesion policy to Lisbon and Europe 2020 strategy objectives represents one of the key contributions of the European Parliament to the future Europe 2020 strategy for growth and employment, one of the priorities of the Spanish Presidency.
The report highlights job creation, the fostering of a sustainable economy, education and training to promote development, employment and competitiveness, as well as the key role of investment in research and development, bearing in mind the need to adopt specific measures for regions with natural handicaps.
However, it will not be possible to implement the Europe 2020 strategy successfully without the participation and full approval of regional and local authorities, as well as that of civil society.
Regions not only contribute to project cofinancing, but are also capable of gauging the needs of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises better due to their proximity, as well as being in a position to establish a direct link with universities and innovation centres, thus promoting the knowledge triangle.
In this context, Cohesion policy is not merely a source of stable financial allocations, but also represents a powerful tool in the economic development of all European regions.
Its objectives of eliminating existing inequalities between regions and of introducing economic, social and territorial cohesion, along with its basic principles of an integrated focus, multi-level governance and genuine collaboration, are all essential elements to the success of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Thursday, 20 May 2010).
The solutions deployed so far for exiting the crisis have not been targeting the causes which have put us in this situation.
This is the reason why I am urging all Member States to show some responsibility and abide by the commitments which they also take on.
The Commission should also play a more active role in coordinating the implementation of this strategy in order to prevent it from failing as disastrously as the Lisbon Strategy.
The EU 2020 strategy proposed by the European Commission to stimulate growth and employment in the EU emphasises research and innovation.
Various instruments are already providing a great deal of support to projects being carried out in these fields: the Structural Funds, the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development and the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme.
These various programmes provide finance to the tune of EUR 86 billion for the period 2007-2013.
The EU 2020 strategy also emphasises the interdependence of the various EU policies.
This being the case, I welcome the importance given by the rapporteur to the role which a strong, properly financed regional policy can play in the achievement of the EU 2020 strategy objectives.
In the context of discussions on the effective use of all funds earmarked by the European Union for research and innovation, we have to raise the problem of appropriate promotion for innovative solutions which arise in individual Member States.
It is also important to finance soft projects such as training and the dissemination of knowledge about the significance of innovation for economic growth, better informing of local entities about the programmes which are available, and also flexibility in defining the conditions for granting support, so that countries which currently have a low level of innovation can, by development of the sector concerned, contribute to creation of the competitive advantage of the European Union on a global scale.
