Harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by Mrs Stihler, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC [10753/3/2010 - C7-0267/2010 -.
The scale is huge and the challenges many, but today, these new rules which will come into force through Member States in the next 24 months will help the construction sector as we attempt to create economic growth and, through this, jobs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank the President, who is doing us the honour of chairing a debate on an issue that is so very important for industrial policy and the internal market.
This was also the first practical application of the principles enshrined in the Small Business Act.
Secondly, there is the special treatment reserved for micro-enterprises, which have always been considered essential in order to safeguard the principles of the Small Business Act.
The fact that we have succeeded here in bringing the European internal market to the fore with a regulation is very positive.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my very sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Stihler, who has done some very important work in this highly technical area.
I believe we have achieved a good compromise in this second reading, even if - as is always the case with compromises, of course - not all sides are satisfied.
Nevertheless, in view of the result, we do not believe that it would make sense to reject this compromise on account of a procedural error of this kind.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Stihler for her hard work.
In Europe today, the construction sector directly employs 12 million EU citizens.
Therefore, in my view, the agreement reached represents an excellent compromise that will strike the right balance between the needs of producers and those of consumers, thereby guaranteeing the proper functioning of the market in a sector that is truly the driving force of our European economy. (EL) Madam President, I must thank Mrs Stihler for the excellent work she has done.
We have managed to sort out the issue of hazardous substances.
The first is to say to you, Commissioner, in thanking you for your work with us, that we need to work very closely with you on the implementation of this proposal.
Secondly, I think that this is an absolutely crucial sector and we do need to keep it under review, as many colleagues have said, to make sure that there are, in effect, no market barriers put in place that are going to stop it contributing vitally to the European economy. (CS) Madam President, I am very satisfied with the text of the Construction Products Directive agreed between the rapporteurs and the very helpful Commissioners Tajani and Barnier for today's second reading.
The IMCO committee, of which I am a member, has come together and adopted the text unanimously, including the simplifications for micro-enterprises.
It will be another sign that the legal environment in the EU is improving in a way that will support the unified market. (DE) Madam President, I am not convinced with regard to all of the points of the compromise, but I know that the new regulation represents a definite improvement on the current legal situation.
However, as Mrs Gebhardt said in her speech, these rules for the liberalisation and development of the market also provide real guidance on safety, which is of great importance for construction sector workers, but also consumers.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 18 January 2011.
