Oral explanations of vote (PL) Mr President, the building industry constitutes a very important branch of the economy of every country.
Such an essential part of the market cannot be overlooked when striving for economic growth and an improvement in living standards.
The report aims to remove market barriers, enable the effective sale of building materials and ensure competitive prices in the sector.
I lend my full support, too, to the author's proposals regarding increasing employee safety in the industry. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Stihler report, it is clear what an important role the construction sector plays in Europe.
We simply had to tackle the problems faced by 12 million citizens directly employed in this sector.
The Stihler report is a valuable tool for bringing down the national administrative and technical barriers that prevent the marketing of construction products within the European Union and for continuing to build a single market in this sector.
I support the recognition given to small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector, just as I support the particular attention paid to the need to recycle construction products, which is an issue of the utmost importance in the fight against climate change.
However, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the issue of the health and safety of workers employed in the construction sector.
It is our duty to discuss and develop these proposals further in the immediate future, thereby ensuring that workers employed in the construction sector receive a high level of protection.
I hope that, through our work, we will be able to put a stop to them. (FI) Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Stihler for this excellent report.
It is very important to focus attention on the harmonisation of the marketing of construction products, because in the future, we will need better and higher quality construction.
We need to remember that, although this is a highly competitive industry, what is most important is not the competition in itself, but the end result.
It is important that the buildings which are constructed in Europe are safe for their users and that they are also safe for the builders and other employees during the construction process.
It is true that in many countries in Europe at present, they still use materials which are not healthy for residents.
For example, we have a huge problem with mildew in many Member States of the European Union, and that is why it is important to use best practices and innovations to try to make the marketing of construction products one that relates to products that are healthy and satisfactory as far as their users are concerned.
The European Consensus on humanitarian aid, signed on 18 December by the Presidents of the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Commission, represents a significant step forward.
It is essential that political bodies and military or humanitarian organisations active in the same working environment should learn more about one another and engage in dialogue, while having regard to - and not compromising - their respective roles and remits.
Obviously, when civil protection resources are used, it must be in accordance with the international guidelines as set out in the European Consensus. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the report adopted today - for which I thank and congratulate the rapporteur Mrs Striffler - is a text that will make for more effective and consistent humanitarian aid.
The European Parliament is today inviting the Union to cooperate more closely in order to reach a consensus aimed at strengthening our collective response to humanitarian crises and, in particular, at strongly upholding full compliance with international humanitarian law.
We must ensure, therefore, that humanitarian aid and humanitarian aid workers have better access to populations in need, and as there are more of these populations these days, we must succeed in doing even more than we have done so far, through the Commission or through bilateral programmes.
While the needs are huge, the distribution of aid is becoming increasingly difficult and also risky and dangerous due to the increasingly complex international framework.
In view of these requirements, therefore, this agreement promotes a European consensus in which it is affirmed that EU aid is based unequivocally on the humanitarian principles of neutrality, independence and impartiality and must be provided quickly and effectively to crisis victims on the basis of identified need. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic increase in the number and severity of natural disasters, together with the rising incidence of complex crises, mean that we are faced with worsening violations of international humanitarian law and a shrinking 'humanitarian space'.
The recent tragedies in Haiti and Pakistan demonstrate once again that the tools available to the EU for responding to natural disasters need to be improved.
In Europe, 16% of citizens still live below the poverty line.
It is essential that the financing of the new common agricultural policy after 2013 recognises this, and the very least we need is that the budget should be maintained at least at its current level. (DA) Mr President, Parliament has today chosen to formally recognise agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security.
Likewise, we also recognise the fact that agriculture is a strategic sector when it comes to food quality, public health and sustainable, economic growth.
Instead, we must invest in research and give farmers the opportunity to use new technologies for alternative forms of income.
Overall, we consider the report to be good, and therefore we voted in favour of it as a whole. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, food security is a basic human right, and it is achieved only when all people, at all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient food.
The new EU common agricultural policy must reflect these new requirements: it therefore needs to respond clearly and unequivocally to food security and other challenges, most notably climate change, the economic crisis and keeping territorial balance within the EU.
We need to promote not only the competitiveness of our products, but also traditional agriculture, small-scale farming, organic farming and local distribution.
These models of agriculture have always made, and continue to make, a valid contribution to food security because they often represent the most effective way of utilising land in diverse geographical regions of the EU through the use of methods which have been specifically developed in distinct regions over long periods of time. (PL) Mr President, our role as Members of the European Parliament is to act to improve the lives of EU citizens.
Taking into account growing population numbers, climate change and natural disasters, global food security is under threat.
Agriculture should be given a special status which will allow special action to be taken and appropriate instruments to be applied in the event that food crises occur. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, food security and a guaranteed supply of food for populations continue to be the main challenges for agriculture, not only in Europe but also worldwide.
I am very satisfied with the contents of this report, in particular, because food security is recognised as a fundamental human right.
Europe has to be able to intervene with common and effective measures to guarantee food supply and prevent the serious asymmetries that still exist in relation to safety standards between EU and non-EU products. (DE) Mr President, I would like to say that I was very pleased by the report on recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security as this puts the significance of the rural economy back at the centre of things.
There was one point where I did not vote with the report, however, and this concerned the creation of a European food aid programme within the European Union.
Our farmers should be supported to produce food in a way which is not harmful to the environment, and as for importing food, world markets are simply too volatile - both in terms of price and in terms of consistency of supply.
We must have a strong budget for the common agricultural policy.
This report forms part of a set of measures that this House has developed to promote agriculture, and I can therefore say that I am satisfied. (HU) Mr President, nowadays, the world's food production is facing different challenges to an increasing extent.
One such challenge is climate change, which unfortunately may cause unpredictable food shortages, and thus endanger the satisfaction of the growing demand of the world's population, estimated to reach more than 9 billion by 2050.
The common agricultural policy must react unequivocally to challenges posed by food safety, climate change and economic crisis.
To achieve the above objectives, and in the interest of rational food prices and a fair income for agricultural producers, the CAP budget must be maintained at least at its current level.
For this reason, it is important to handle agriculture as a strategic sector from the point of view of food safety.
This is why I, too, supported this report. (FI) Mr President, first, I want to say that it is excellent that the European Parliament recognises agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security.
I wish to stress, above all, the importance of these principles, which derive from considerations of health and are important.
It is important all over Europe to ensure that agriculture is absolutely viable and that every Member State of the European Union is able to practise farming.
It is vital and a strong basis for the future, which we need specifically in the food sector. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having voted firmly in favour of this important report, I would like to emphasise, in particular, paragraph 35 of the well-structured opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety which, in considering that the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) has a major role to play in the assessment of all risks associated with the food chain as part of a set of measures designed to protect the health and wellbeing of the public, hopes that all Member States will set up corresponding national bodies to collaborate with the EFSA.
As the recent serious events in Germany demonstrate, national food safety bodies need to be set up today by all the Member States.
Written explanations of vote Since, according to the Consultative Working Party of Parliament's legal services, the Council and the Commission, the proposal in question contains a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance, I agree with their adoption at first reading.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this report and the European Commission's proposal, because I believe that it is very important to simplify and clarify Community law so as to make it clearer and more accessible to all citizens.
The codification of legislation is particularly important in the field of business, which, in order to ensure the smooth and continuous free movement of people, goods and services, is regulated by a significant amount of Community legislation.
However, since 1978, European legislation has been in place to regulate mergers of public limited liability companies from the same Member State.
I voted in favour of this report because, according to the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance and therefore, in the interests of clarity and rationality, the existing texts should be codified.
in writing. - I voted for this report because, according to the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
I find myself unable to vote in favour of some of the amendments and I therefore voted against the report as a whole.
On 21 September 2010, the Consultative Working Party, made up of the respective legal services of Parliament, the Council and the Commission, having examined the proposal for codifying the Third Council Directive 78/855/EEC of 9 October 1978 based on Article 54(3)(g) of the Treaty concerning mergers of public limited liability companies, concluded without dissent that the proposal is effectively a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
I therefore voted for this report.
At that meeting, an examination of the amended proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council codifying the Third Council Directive 78/855/EEC of 9 October 1978 based on Article 54(3)(g) of the Treaty concerning mergers of public limited liability companies resulted in the Consultative Working Party's concluding, without dissent, that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
I agree with the signing of the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union on 1 January 2007.
Apart from the formal aspect, it is important from the perspective of united Europe's global role in different regions, not only its economic, but also its political role.
I support the conclusion of a protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union.
The text of the legislative resolution on which we have voted underwent the simplified procedure provided for under Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure.
The Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishes an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, and the protocol is to update the agreement, taking account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union, which has been provisionally applied since 1 January 2007.
In this legislative resolution, the Council is submitting to Parliament a request for consent to the protocol.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which is a simple piece of housekeeping updating the existing agreement to take into account the accession of Bulgaria and Romania.
This protocol merely brings the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the EU and Jordan into line with what has, in reality, been applied since 1 January 2007.
The hurry to implement the Euro-Mediterranean free trade area by 2015 justifies all the failures to comply with democratic principles.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the draft Council decision on conclusion of a protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union since all the prerequisites had been met and since what was at hand was primarily a formal act.
This recommendation on the draft Council decision concerning the conclusion of a protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union, deserves my vote.
In this case, therefore, I intend to give my backing to the draft European Parliament legislative resolution on conclusion of a protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union, which Parliament has already approved so that the protocol could be concluded.
I voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol, which is fully justified in view of the need to include the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania as contracting parties in the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, which was concluded in Brussels on 24 November 1997 and entered into force on 1 May 2002.
in writing. - Having regard to the draft Council decision (06903/2010), having regard to the draft protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union (09373/2008), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the Council in accordance with Article 217 and Article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (C7-0384/2010), having regard to Rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its Rules of Procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Verts/ALE Group agreed that Parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
This is a recommendation on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the West African Economic and Monetary Union on certain aspects of air services.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the West African Economic and Monetary Union on certain aspects of air services.
Consequently, the Council has authorised the Commission to open negotiations with third countries in order to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with Community agreements.
The Commission has negotiated an Agreement with the West African Economic and Monetary Union that avoids discrimination between EU air carriers, allows the taxation of aircraft fuel for operations within the territory of the European Union, and brings into line with EU competition law provisions in bilateral agreements which are clearly anti-competitive, namely, obligatory commercial agreements between airlines.
The transfer of Member States' competences to the European Union is the justification for replacing bilateral air services agreements with new ones to which the Union is party.
The report tabled by Mr Koch proposes the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the West African Economic and Monetary Union on certain aspects of air services.
Therefore, as the Court of Justice of the European Communities has ruled, it makes no sense for there to be bilateral agreements on air services between EU Member States and the Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union.
I therefore welcome the adoption of this agreement, which will strengthen the bonds of territorial cohesion within Europe and bring about compliance with EU competition law.
In particular, we cannot underestimate the contribution that the supposed creation of a level playing field for the various European companies could make towards facilitating the monopolistic concentration of the sector - which is already under way - and the reduction of the Member States' capacity to defend their flag-carrying airlines.
I voted in favour of this report because the Community has exclusive competence with respect to various aspects of external aviation which were traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries, and consequently, Community agreements must replace certain provisions in the existing 47 bilateral air services agreements concluded between EU Member States and Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union.
Although traditional bilateral agreements tend to exempt aircraft fuel in general from taxation, Council Directive 2003/96/EC restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity permits such taxation for operations within the territory of the European Union.
African countries situated in particularly difficult geographic and climatic regions require special treatment.
There are also new opportunities for tourists from throughout the world and the associated development of this branch of the economy in Africa.
I voted for the recommendation on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the West African Economic and Monetary Union on certain aspects of air services.
The agreement, which was negotiated by the Commission, aims to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements concluded between EU Member States and Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union.
Amongst the most important changes relating to the agreement we voted on today, I feel the need to mention the provisions included to avoid discrimination between European Union air carriers.
This is as a result of the 2003 ECJ decision that gave the Community exclusive competence in regard to various aspects of external aviation which had traditionally been governed by bilateral air service agreements.
Just as with other horizontal air agreements, this agreement provides for an EU designation clause permitting all EU carriers to benefit from the right of establishment, deals with safety issues and the taxation of aviation fuel and resolves potential conflicts with EU competition rules.
The existence of 47 bilateral agreements between EU Member States and the Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union is clearly insufficient to cover the various aspects of air services.
This agreement aims to replace certain provisions in the existing 47 bilateral air services agreements concluded between EU Member States and Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU).
It will re-establish legal certainty for bilateral air services agreements concluded between Member States of the WAEMU and EU Member States and it will also make it possible for EU Member States that have not signed a bilateral agreement with a Member State of the WAEMU not to be adversely affected.
The agreement will strengthen EU-Africa aviation relations and will foster cooperation in the aviation area between the EU and WAEMU on a number of important aspects, such as aviation safety and security.
In order to create a uniform basis for flights to countries outside the EU and, subsequently, to be able to guarantee legal certainty, all bilateral agreements must be reviewed.
With the Council's authorisation, the Commission negotiated an agreement with the West African Economic and Monetary Union that replaces the existing 47 bilateral air services agreements concluded between EU Member States and Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union.
I am voting in favour of the report because a generally applicable agreement makes perfect sense in this context.
This agreement simply replaces the 47 bilateral agreements with the various Member States and, as a result, the EU gains more foreign policy powers.
Therefore, I have voted against this report.
I would like to emphasise these two points in the favourable opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, as these caused me to vote in favour of this report.
In June 2003, the Commission opened negotiations with third countries in order to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with EU agreements.
The main aspects of the agreement are: the designation clause, which replaces the bilateral agreement and avoids discrimination between European Union air carriers; taxation of aviation fuel in general on EU territory; and Article 6, which brings commercial agreements between airlines in line with EU competition law.
The agreement negotiated by the Commission was provisionally applied on 30 November 2009.
I voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement which, under the exclusive competence granted to the EU regarding various aspects of external aviation, is aimed at replacing certain provisions in the 47 existing bilateral agreements on air services between the EU Member States and the Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union, in order to make them compatible with EU law.
Consequently, the Council authorised the Commission in June 2003 to open negotiations with third countries in order to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with Community agreements.
Thus, the Commission has negotiated an agreement with the West African Economic and Monetary Union that replaces certain provisions in the existing 47 bilateral air services agreements concluded between EU Member States and Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union.
Parliament is entitled to give its consent to the conclusion of this agreement in accordance with Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure.
The Verts/ALE Group did so.
I welcome the adoption of this agreement with the Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union, as I consider it essential for the European Union to table a policy of consistency in the external aviation sector, gradually reducing the various provisions of the current bilateral agreements on air services between both parties.
I agree that there is a need to take measures relating to the construction sector, as this sector is quite important to the European economy: with 10% of gross domestic product, it represents almost 65 000 small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than 250 employees.
This proposal aims, firstly, to ensure a high level of safety for construction products and, secondly, to improve health and safety conditions for the sector's workers.
I agreed with this document, because due to the scale of the marketing of construction products in the EU and obstacles to trade in the construction sector, it is important to take immediate action.
Bearing in mind that the construction sector is one of Europe's biggest industries, accounting for 10% of GDP and employing directly 12 million EU citizens, proper regulation is essential.
I believe that this proposal for a regulation on harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products will facilitate the updating, simplification and replacement of the Construction Products Directive in light of changed circumstances concerning, for instance, market surveillance, including the new legislative framework.
It is on this basis that I voted for this regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products.
In order to ensure a high level of health and safety protection for workers and other construction product users, the new legislation on the marketing of construction products must include labelling of hazardous substances.
This regulation updates and replaces the current rules so as to cut red tape and increase transparency, in particular, through new simplified performance assessment procedures for small businesses.
The sector employs directly 12 million EU citizens and an additional 26 million jobs in other sectors are dependent on it.
In the EU, there are still barriers to trade in the construction sector, because Member States still use national technical rules to prevent the free movement of goods and services in the construction sector.
The review of the Construction Products Directive in this context is a much needed boost which should help the sector by removing barriers to trade for manufacturers and thereby helping companies stay in business and workers remain in employment.
While breaking down administrative barriers, it is essential to ensure the independence and transparency of technical assessment bodies, and therefore I support the proposal to set standards on transparency and ensure the representation of all stakeholders in the technical committees of European Standardisation bodies in order to avoid conflicts of interest.
As I also emphasised in my speech yesterday, I voted in favour of this report.
I am referring to matters relating not only to workers' safety and their migration, but also to the safety of the construction materials in relation to our health.
I hope that the new regulation will make its impact as quickly as possible and that we, as ordinary people, will notice that we have made progress and that the construction industry as a whole is no longer one of the most dangerous sectors of activity.
The labelling of, and providing of information on, hazardous substances contained in products of all kinds, whether they be chemical or construction products, is one of the achievements of the European Union.
Health and safety are priorities, and we should welcome the fact that European standards allow for this high level of transparency and safety.
This sector employs 12 million EU citizens directly with another 26 million workers dependent on it.
The review of the Construction Products Directive in this context should help the sector by removing the trade barriers facing manufacturers and would, in turn, help companies stay in business and workers remain in employment.
In terms of GDP creation, construction represents 10% of the economic output of the European Union.
The aim of the submitted regulation is to amend the existing directive and thereby to simplify the conditions for marketing construction products.
The aim of the amendment to the directive is, in a period of economic downturn, to assist the construction sector in eliminating commercial obstacles, thereby preserving jobs and sustaining a great many construction firms that would otherwise not survive the economic downturn.
We must protect the health of our citizens.
For the reasons mentioned above, as well as for other reasons, I have decided to support the report.
I voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation as it lays down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and is intended to update, simplify and replace the Construction Products Directive in the light of changed circumstances, especially as regards market surveillance, including the new legislative framework.
Given the size of the construction sector, it is imperative that measures be taken regarding the marketing of construction products in the EU.
I support recognition of the need for high standards of health and safety for workers in this sector.
This proposal will remove barriers to trading for manufacturers and also help companies to remain in business and contribute to workers keeping their jobs.
The regulation on harmonising the marketing of construction products marks a step forward towards improving the operation of the internal market in this area and the free movement of construction products.
The draft recommendation on the setting out of harmonised conditions for marketing construction products requires the highest possible level of protection, both for workers and for persons using buildings.
I agree with the position of the rapporteur that the power to monitor possible hazardous substances in construction products is vitally necessary, and I support the amendment proposal concerning the need for information on hazardous substances to be declared on construction products.
In order to increase awareness of new and existing construction products, so-called contact points should be established, which must be impartial, in other words, independent in financial and personnel terms of bodies connected with the process of obtaining CE marks.
I voted for this report because it advocates the need to remove barriers affecting trade in the construction industry.
The current economic recession has severely harmed this sector.
Removing barriers to trading for manufacturers will, firstly, help companies to remain in business and, secondly, contribute to workers keeping their jobs.
The sector employs directly 12 million EU citizens with 26 million workers dependent on the sector.
This proposal for a regulation is intended to harmonise the marketing of construction products, updating and simplifying the current directive while taking account of the new legislative framework (Regulation No 765/2008/EC and Decision 768/2008/EC).
It focuses on various aspects, such as the declaration of performance and CE marking, the transportation of hazardous substances, national contact points for obtaining information on construction products, the independence and transparency of all the bodies involved in this area, the recycling of construction products, greater emphasis on health and safety issues, the improvement of e-communication and the introduction of new information technology methods.
I voted in favour of this regulation which will certainly increase safety in the transportation of these products, protect health and enhance the safety conditions of all the workers in the sector.
In this context, this is a case of adopting a regulation that aims to establish harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products.
I believe that we can all agree on certain aspects, specifically regarding the defending of health and safety, including for workers, but also in relation to using a product during its life cycle, especially in the case of dangerous substances.
However, we cannot agree on decisions that could end up putting at risk the production of these products in countries with more-fragile economies or by small and medium-sized enterprises that find it difficult to adapt, unless there is some sort of advance support, if only to defend the interests of European economic groups which, in fact, aim to dominate the market.
The move towards the liberalisation of building products in the construction sector represents one of the requests for greater sensitivity received from small and medium-sized enterprises.
For this reason, I am very pleased to accept the adoption of the resolution on harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products.
Nonetheless, we should not forget that the resolution contains a range of new requirements regarding the placing of CE labels and preparing user property declarations, which will also have to contain information about dangerous substances contained in construction products.
I agreed with this proposal, because the construction sector is one of Europe's biggest industries, accounting for 10% of GDP, and the sector employs directly 12 million EU citizens, with 26 million workers dependent on it.
The review of the Construction Products Directive (89/106/EEC) is a much needed boost which should help the sector by removing barriers to trade for manufacturers, thereby helping companies stay in business and workers remain in employment.
The proposal for a regulation on harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products (COM(2008)311) is intended to update, simplify and replace the Construction Products Directive in light of changed circumstances.
I am pleased that attention has been drawn to and particular concern is shown for hazardous substances in these products, and the ability to trace hazardous substances back to products is vitally important.
The retabling of the amendments (Amendments 7, 17, 49) on hazardous substances is important for future health and safety and transparency.
The Commission is right in its initiative to facilitate the practical implementation of the existing directive and make that implementation process more efficient.
Construction products clearly differ from other products whose movement within the internal market is controlled by directives.
I believe that this regulation will improve both the functioning of the internal market and the standardisation process for construction products in Europe.
I supported Mrs Stihler's report with a view to the adoption of a regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products, because I believe the construction sector to be very important for the European economy.
The aim of the proposal is to ensure precise and reliable information on the performance of construction products, so as to be able to rely on safe buildings, built with materials that have no negative effects on human health.
in writing. - I wish to congratulate my Scottish colleague, Catherine Stihler, on her good work on this very technical subject.
The fact that the civil construction sector accounts for a large part of the European Union's gross domestic product (GDP), according to the rapporteur, representing approximately 10% of GDP and 50.5% of gross fixed capital, justifies the harmonised conditions which have been adopted here.
The review of Construction Products Directive 89/106/EEC in this context is a much needed boost which should help the sector, specifically by removing barriers to trade for manufacturers, on the one hand, and by helping companies stay in business and workers remain in employment, on the other.
Small and medium-sized enterprises, which often serve as distributors, have suffered particularly badly and many have even gone out of business.
For that reason, I voted against the motions tabled by the committee responsible at second reading.
The construction sector is a fundamental European sector both in terms of employment and in terms of the development of our small and medium-sized enterprises.
It is therefore imperative to support a regulation that lays down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products, guaranteeing the safety of materials used and the health of workers.
I am therefore in favour of Mrs Stihler's report, which was adopted today at second reading, because it stresses the importance, in a globalised world, of introducing common rules on the marking of substances and products used, so as to guarantee safety and reliability and, at the same time, to reduce costs for producers, with particular reference to SMEs.
The harmonisation measures in the report are too extensive.
Therefore, I have voted against this report.
The proposal for a regulation of Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products is aimed at ensuring the free movement of construction products on the internal market.
The construction industry has been particularly affected by the current economic situation, and the proposed regulation is intended to promote the free, effective and transparent movement of goods and services to the construction industry.
The removal of obstacles to cross-border activity and the elimination of national administrative and technical barriers have a crucial role in the construction industry.
Indeed, these measures will allow companies to stay in business and workers remain in employment.
Across the EU, there are still too many barriers to trade in the construction sector, resulting in the Member States' justification of the technical rules put in place to limit the free movement of goods and services.
It provides jobs for 12 million EU citizens and 92% of it is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises - the backbone of our economy.
Therefore, I think it is necessary to bring in measures to harmonise the market in these products, as well as to guarantee a high level of health and safety for workers in the sector.
This proposal for a regulation is intended to update, simplify and replace the Construction Products Directive in light of changed circumstances concerning, for example, market surveillance.
The need for action on the marketing of construction products in the EU is vitally important, given the scale of this sector.
This sector employs 12 million EU citizens directly, with another 26 million workers dependent on it.
Given the importance of the construction sector within the European economy, it is vital to remove the technical barriers to trade in the field of construction products in order to enhance their free movement within the internal market.
Today, we voted in plenary on the recommendation on harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products.
This proposal for a regulation lays down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products, through the introduction of common rules on marking, aimed at strengthening the guarantees relating to product safety and reliability and, at the same time, at reducing costs for producers, with particular reference to SMEs.
The Council adopted its position in 2010 and subsequently, there were intense informal trialogue negotiations under the Belgian Presidency in order to reach a compromise solution.
The Verts/ALE Group's major concerns have been to make sure, inter alia, that (i) procedures should be transparent (in particular, the standardisation bodies should not be monopolised by representatives of the major industries, and the concerns of SMEs or other stakeholders should be taken into account); (ii) construction requirements and procedures should be able to boost innovative and more ecological patterns; (iii) special procedures for 'micro-enterprises' should not allow the industry to circumvent the requirements or procedures.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe that there are still too many 'barriers' to trade in the construction sector in Europe.
The review of this directive should help to eliminate trade barriers, thereby protecting jobs in construction companies, which are still affected by the global economic crisis.
The proposal provides for the harmonisation and labelling of products containing hazardous substances, and also simplifies, updates and supersedes current rules so as to eliminate certain regulatory obstacles for the benefit of workers and of small and medium-sized enterprises alike.
The need for greater transparency in approving products with the 'CE' marking has been addressed and I look forward to the measures being introduced in July 2013.
I voted for the proposal for a regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC.
The construction sector is a large industrial sector in Europe, employing 12 million EU citizens directly, with another 26 million workers dependent on it.
The economic downturn has hit the EU construction industry hard, with many workers losing their jobs.
This led to a drop of up to 14.2% in the sector's activity between 2008 and 2009.
The review of the Construction Products Directive (89/106/EEC) in this context offers a measure of support for the construction sector by removing the trade barriers facing manufacturers, thereby helping companies to stay in business and workers to remain in employment.
The sector employs 12 million EU citizens directly, with 26 million workers dependent on the sector.
This sector is also important for small and medium-sized enterprises, the cornerstone of our economy.
Approximately 92% of companies manufacturing construction materials are SMEs with fewer than 250 employees.
in writing. - The construction industry represents various vital issues in the European Union, ranging from its significant contribution to the economy to the safety of EU citizens in their homes and places of work.
My vote in favour of the Construction Products Regulation reflects the need for a modernised, safe and transparent directive on construction products.
The European economy is based heavily on the construction sector, which accounts for 10% of EU GDP and directly employs 12 million EU citizens.
I voted for this report, which seeks to make EU humanitarian aid more effective.
I also agree with the effective application of a European rapid-intervention capability.
The European Consensus on humanitarian aid is the first common document on humanitarian aid policy to have been produced since the adoption of the 1996 regulation.
I hope that the European Consensus on humanitarian aid will be an important step towards achieving the most effective EU actions in the field of humanitarian aid and will contribute to the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law, coordination and consistency in the delivery of EU humanitarian aid, clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities, disaster risk reduction and reinforcement of the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
I also encourage Member States to get involved in implementing this European Consensus on humanitarian aid.
I support the actions promoted in this area: the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law; improvements in terms of quality of the coordination and consistency in the delivery of EU humanitarian aid; clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the Humanitarian Consensus and UN guidelines; disaster risk reduction and reinforcement of the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
Consequently, I voted in favour of this report.
The Union is already the world's largest donor, providing 40% of all contributions.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls that humanitarian aid must be provided in an appropriate and effective manner; stresses the importance of good coordination; emphasises the secondary nature of assistance provided by military and civil protection capabilities and the vital importance of reducing risks caused by natural disasters; and, lastly, calls on the Union to strengthen the link between emergency aid, reconstruction and development.
The European Union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, providing more than 40% of all official international humanitarian assistance.
There has been a significant increase across the globe in the number and severity of natural disasters caused, particularly, by the impact of climate change.
I believe that the European Union must invest greater efforts in disaster risk reduction and provide support - in addition to one-off aid - for local communities' disaster-preparedness capabilities.
It is worrying that violations of international humanitarian law are increasingly common and the situation in the field is deteriorating.
There were many humanitarian crises in 2010: Haiti, Pakistan, and I could go on.
The tragedies that certain populations, often the most disadvantaged ones, experience throughout the world require swift and effective action by international organisations but also by the European Union, which is a major player in the fields of development assistance and crisis management.
Hence, today, Tuesday 18 January, we have adopted Mrs Striffler's report in order to call for increased funding for humanitarian aid.
We should also create a European rapid reaction force for all these crises.
The European Commission is receptive to this idea, and it ought to present a proposal with a view to optimising the existing civil protection system.
There is great scope for improvement, and the resolution adopted by this House is intended to provide an initial response along these lines.
I voted in favour of Parliament's report on implementation of the European Consensus on humanitarian aid: the mid-term review of its action plan and the way forward.
The European Consensus on humanitarian aid commits the Union to close cooperation around a shared vision of humanitarian aid.
The Consensus aims to improve the European Union's effectiveness, to defend and promote the basic humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, and to advocate the observance of international humanitarian law.
I would like to stress the need to invest greater efforts in disaster risk reduction and to provide support - in addition to one-off aid - for communities' own disaster-preparedness capabilities.
The European Union is the biggest donor in the world, contributing 40% of the global aid provided.
More than 100 million people in 70 plus countries received aid amounting to nearly EUR 1 billion from the European Union in 2009.
Donations and investments perhaps ought to be at least coordinated instead of us bemoaning the fact that China has become the second biggest economy in the world.
In this changing context, the first factor to mention is the significant increase in the number and severity of natural disasters caused mainly by climate change.
This implies a need also to provide, in addition to one-off aid, support for communities' own disaster-preparedness capabilities.
We note the debacle of the EU's slow and small efforts in Haiti, and thus we feel that the EU cannot be trusted in future humanitarian crises.
I voted in favour of this report because the European Union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, contributing more than 40% of all official international humanitarian assistance.
In 2009, it granted humanitarian aid to approximately 115 million people in more than 70 countries, to a total of EUR 950 million.
Through its humanitarian policy, the European Union has demonstrated its commitment to supporting people in situations of extreme vulnerability in third countries.
It is also important to encourage dialogue between the political, military or humanitarian bodies active in the same working environment, along with the creation of a European rapid reaction capacity, namely, a European civil protection force.
Initially, because it insists on linking civil protection and humanitarian aid with the European External Action Service and its foreign policy, whereas, obviously, intervention criteria should be clearly humanitarian and humanitarian alone.
Obviously, particular knowledge and the use of special equipment, which has always been owned and used by the military, are needed in certain circumstances.
It is the only way to provide real and effective help in humanitarian crises without facing the dangers of a military presence.
However, instead of finding fault, we must promote and set out the path that we should be following as regards humanitarian aid.
The humanitarian situation has changed a fair amount in recent years, with natural disasters, more displaced persons, the multiplication of various internal conflicts, food crises, etc.
Once again, I would argue that there is an urgent need to create a European Civil Protection Force following the Barnier report of May 2006.
I would congratulate my colleague, Mrs Striffler, on the positive content of the proposals she has tabled, and I would reiterate my position that the Consensus is an essential instrument, with every relevance to the current situation.
Violations of international humanitarian law are increasingly common.
One particularly shocking aspect of such violations is the increasing use of sexual violence as a weapon of war.
I concur with the position of the report's author, indicating that the recent humanitarian disasters in Haiti and Pakistan have demonstrated once again the need to improve the EU's disaster-response capability in terms of effectiveness, speed of response, coordination and visibility.
I also support the creation of a European rapid response capability (European civil protection force).
The European Consensus on humanitarian aid reached on 18 December 2007 by Parliament, the Council and the Commission represented an important step forward in terms of the definition, scope and spectrum of European humanitarian aid.
This will reduce the focus on EU-Member State relations, which should continue to play a role, but not in an exclusive relationship, as it has often manifested itself up until now.
I would also like to highlight the need to submit proposals aimed at 'the establishment of a European civil protection force, based on optimising the existing Community Civil Protection Mechanism and pooling existing national resources,' which would mean an increase in the marginal cost for synergies achieved, through the capacity that has already been established in the Member States.
Humanitarian aid now has a larger and more important role than in the past.
Differing rates of development and growing inequality in opportunity and resource distribution in geographical, social and generational terms, increasing climate change (for which humans are partly to blame) and the associated increase in natural disasters, increased environmental pollution, imbalanced anthropic pressure concentrated in large urban areas, and uneven population growth in some areas of the planet, have led to a rising number of humanitarian disasters in which aid takes on an essential role in restoring basic living conditions and human dignity.
In view of this, if humanitarian aid is needed to assist people hit by disasters, then in turn, any interventions as a result of EU foreign policy - which is still to be defined - cannot be apportioned according to each Member State's areas of interest and influence, but should take on a European dimension.
in writing. - I support this report on implementation of the European consensus on humanitarian aid.
The EU's humanitarian policy is the practical expression of its commitment to supporting people in need of assistance when they are at their most vulnerable.
Its contribution represents more than 40% of all official international humanitarian assistance.
In 2009, we provided a total of EUR 950 million to approximately 115 million people in more than 70 countries.
The European Consensus on humanitarian aid, signed on 18 December 2007, underscores the will of the EU to cooperate closely in this field in order to be as effective as possible, to defend and promote the basic humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, and actively to advocate the observance of international humanitarian law.
We also need clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the consensus and the UN guidelines.
That is why I voted in favour of this report, which advocates the establishment of a European rapid reaction capability (European civil protection force) - a concept launched by Commissioner Barnier following the tsunami in Asia and repeatedly urged since then by the European Parliament.
The humanitarian situation has changed significantly in recent years, not least with the significantly increasing number and severity of natural disasters, which are also caused by the impact of climate change.
The European Union has been taking on an important role in combating these scourges, and I hope that it will continue to do so and even that it will strengthen this role, in as far as is possible.
The European Consensus on humanitarian aid merits my support, and I hope that the compromise between the European institutions will translate into making increasingly better use of the resources available to the Union, whilst always prioritising giving to those who have least and suffer most, and total neutrality in terms of political or ideological agendas.
In recent years, the world has witnessed a significant rise in disasters, in terms of both the geographic area affected and the number of victims.
The signing of the European Consensus on humanitarian aid by the Council of the European Union, Parliament and the Commission on 18 December 2007 represented a significant step forward in terms of humanitarian aid, especially as an action plan was envisaged for five years, providing for a mid-term review.
Parliament has tackled this issue at several sittings, particularly through our speeches.
Indeed, recent events in Brazil, Haiti, Pakistan, Madeira and other places cause us to ponder the effectiveness of support for civil protection and humanitarian aid.
As was demonstrated in this report, in spite of the limited information available, there are positive developments at a European level, as evidenced by the creation of the Council's Working Party on Humanitarian Aid and Food Aid.
The EU's so-called 'humanitarian aid' plays a not insignificant role in what is increasingly defined as its foreign policy.
Disguised by supposed 'humanitarian' interests, a number of non-governmental organisations, logistics companies and others are beneficiaries of and accomplices to these policies, promoting their own interests and those of their backers; these interests may be public or private, and may include political, financial or religious motivations, amongst others.
in writing. - The EU as a bloc is the world's largest contributor of humanitarian aid.
Nevertheless, recent catastrophes have highlighted certain shortcomings in the EU's ability to act in a speedy, efficient and coordinated manner.
The Striffler reports underlines some of these concerns and it is to be hoped that positive action results from today's vote.
The humanitarian context has changed profoundly in recent years.
In this changing context, the first factor to highlight is the significant increase in the number and severity of natural disasters caused, particularly, by the impact of climate change.
This implies a need to invest greater efforts in disaster risk reduction and to provide support - in addition to one-off aid - for communities' own disaster-preparedness capabilities.
Violations of international humanitarian law are increasingly common and the situation in the field is deteriorating.
One particularly shocking aspect of such violations is the increasing use of sexual violence as a weapon of war.
The recent humanitarian disasters in Haiti and Pakistan demonstrated once again the need to improve the EU's disaster-response capability in terms of effectiveness, coordination and visibility.
The EU, as one of the richest and most developed regions in the world, has a moral duty to help the weak and those in need.
Cooperation is, therefore, necessary with other international, non-governmental bodies and organisations that also provide aid, in order to make this more effective.
I voted in favour of the Striffler report because there is still a great need to emphasise the importance and, hence, the sensitivity of this issue.
We must increasingly urge all the European players, including the Commission and the individual Member States, to encourage the promotion of universal respect for human rights.
A dramatic rise has been seen recently in the number and severity of natural disasters, whether man-made or not, along with an increase in the adverse impact caused by violations of international humanitarian law and poor governance.
As is well known, the European Union is the world's number one donor of humanitarian aid, contributing approximately 40% of official international humanitarian assistance.
This is borne out by the 115 million recipients of aid from approximately 70 countries who have benefited from a total contribution of nearly EUR 1 billion.
I voted for this consensus as I think that the EU demonstrates in action through its humanitarian policy its commitment to people who are truly in need of aid.
in writing. - I strongly welcome this report, which makes suggestions on how the Consensus on humanitarian aid can be strengthened.
It highlights a number of areas that require more attention, including the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law; issues of quality, coordination and consistency in the delivery of EU humanitarian aid; clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the Consensus and the UN guidelines, and reinforcement of the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
The submitted report is a very timely response to the many natural disasters we have experienced in recent years.
It is essential for the EU to learn from the experience of providing effective aid after previous disasters, for example, in Australia, Haiti and Russia, in order to have completely clear procedures and resources for providing effective humanitarian aid.
It is evident that the inhabitants of affected areas very often remain cut off in terms of transport links around the country, and the capacity of civil aviation resources is limited.
It is also the case that the EU is one of the chief global players in terms of humanitarian aid, and it is important that this role be maintained in spite of the crises that we are experiencing.
Nevertheless, I believe that in addition to helping the most disadvantaged and all those who are affected by these disasters, it is also necessary to provide the poorest countries, and therefore those that are most vulnerable to this type of situation, with human resources and funding so that external aid is not so critical.
The humanitarian environment is increasingly complex and difficult: humanitarian law is frequently infringed; confusion over roles means that humanitarian workers are increasingly targeted, and natural disasters are increasing in number and intensity.
In 2010, we witnessed the three greatest humanitarian catastrophes in recent years: the earthquake in Haiti; the drought in the Sahel; and the floods in Pakistan.
However, as Commissioner Kristalina Georgieva said, 'The quality of our humanitarian aid is of the utmost importance'.
We must continue to raise awareness and to promote humanitarian principles and the principles of international law.
The report on implementation of the European Consensus on humanitarian aid contains some important proposals which need to be acted on in the future.
The approach of procuring foodstuffs and the like locally in crisis situations and thus supporting the local economy is also a sensible idea.
I voted in favour of this report because, as the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, the European Union must pay greater attention to humanitarian aid in those areas where it is needed as a matter of urgency, given that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of natural disasters and internal conflicts.
Furthermore, in order to ensure appropriate and effective coordination of humanitarian aid, a European civil protection force and a European rapid reaction capacity must be created.
Its contribution represents more than 40% of all official international humanitarian assistance.
I believe that, in a sector as fragile as humanitarian aid, it is important to be aware of how circumstances have changed over the years, bearing in mind the significant increase in the number and severity of natural disasters.
By voting in favour of the Striffler report, I hope that we can move on to the adoption of a practical action plan.
Its contribution represents more than 40% of all official international humanitarian assistance.
A rigorous mid-term review of the implementation of the European Consensus on humanitarian aid can only conclude that it is necessary to encourage greater awareness of this mechanism, and greater coordination and efficiency among all the entities involved.
I am voting in favour of this report, and I would like to call for a policy of systematic dialogue, greater cooperation on the ground, better management and a commitment to preventing disasters.
I support the creation of a European civil protection force, following the Barnier report published in May 2006.
The EU is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, providing more than 40% of international humanitarian assistance.
The European Consensus on humanitarian aid, signed on 18 December 2007 by the Council, Parliament and the European Commission, on the basis of a five-year action plan, commits the EU and the Member States to close cooperation in this field.
Action No 33 provides for a mid-term review of the action plan to deal with the lack of awareness of the humanitarian sector, serious climate change, the rising incidence of complex crises and growing violence.
I voted in favour of this report, which presents an overview of the implementation of the European Consensus on humanitarian aid, formulating proposals which aim to help strengthen its visibility and greater efficiency in achieving its objectives.
This instrument has taken on even greater importance in the current humanitarian context, which has been marked by a significant increase in the number and severity of natural disasters, and it is vital that efforts be made towards the complete fulfilment of the commitments arising from this, and that the Member States have greater involvement in its implementation.
Today, we voted in plenary on the report on the European Consensus on humanitarian aid.
The European Union, through the Commission and the Member States combined, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid.
Its contribution represents more than 40% of all official international humanitarian assistance.
The Union's humanitarian policy is the practical expression of its commitment to supporting people in third countries in need of assistance when they are at their most vulnerable.
As the mid-term review offers an opportunity to step up the EU's efforts in a number of areas, the report draws attention to the following issues, among others: the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law; the issues of quality, coordination and consistency in the delivery of EU humanitarian aid; clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the consensus and the UN guidelines; disaster risk reduction and reinforcement of the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
The European Union, through the Commission and the Member States combined, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, contributing more than 40% of all official international assistance.
In 2009 alone, the Commission provided a total of EUR 950 million to approximately 115 million people in more than 70 countries.
The Union's policies are the practical expression of its genuine commitment to supporting people when they are at their most vulnerable.
Our aim is to be able to plan a more coordinated civil and military response so that our intervention with regard to natural disasters becomes increasingly effective.
These tragic events are occurring more and more frequently and have caused hundreds of thousands of deaths throughout the world in recent years.
Particular attention must be paid to women and children, especially refugees and displaced persons, as violations of international humanitarian law in relation to these groups are becoming increasingly common.
in writing. - 14/1: I voted in favour of this as I perceive it to be a weakening of EU legislation and will result in it becoming easier to import non-GM soya beans into the UK.
This is a critical issue for our poultry sector. 14/2: I voted in favour of this as it will reduce the negative impact of EU legislation on cargoes of non-GM soya beans destined for the UK. 14/3: I abstained on this because although it may be a desirable aspiration (for a UK government free of EU control), it is not yet a critical issue in my view and I do not wish to extend EU power.
It is achieved when all people, at all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life.
It is important to draw attention to the fact that global stocks of staple foods are much more limited than in the past, having fallen to a record low of 12 weeks' worth of global food stocks during the food crisis of 2007.
At the same time, world food production is increasingly vulnerable to extreme weather events linked to climate change, which can cause sudden and unpredictable food shortages.
I believe that it is very important to promote not only competitiveness in the agricultural sector, but also traditional agriculture, small-scale farming, organic farming and local distribution.
Furthermore, in the context of an ageing rural population, I believe it is very important to guarantee access to land and credit for young farmers.
This report encourages the provision of healthy, good quality food to consumers at reasonable prices and the safeguarding of farmers' incomes, which are two of the European Union's key objectives.
Europe can contribute to global food security by becoming more competitive.
As the Chair of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Joseph Daul, moreover emphasised at the beginning of this new year, food security will be the major issue in 2011.
That is why I voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to ensure that the strategic nature of the issue is recognised.
A strong, funded common agricultural policy must be developed to provide high quality food at a reasonable cost, as we face up to the demand for food in the EU and worldwide.
It is a matter of concern that global food stocks are not as plentiful as before and, considering the threat posed by climate change and natural disasters, I support what the report says on the establishment of a global system devoted to developing food stocks.
With the rapid growth in the world's population, the agricultural sector must meet a growing need for safe and sufficient food, despite the obstacles of limited natural resources, high energy prices and climate change.
According to the UN Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO), food production must increase by at least 70 percent to meet the growing demands of a world population, which is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050.
I agree that the new CAP to be put in place after 2013 needs to promote not only competitiveness, but also traditional agriculture, small-scale farming, organic farming and local distribution, in order to contribute to food security.
Furthermore, in the context of an ageing rural population, I believe it is very important to guarantee access to land and credit for young farmers and to maintain reasonable food prices and a sufficient income for farmers.
The EU should not interfere with school milk or school fruit programmes.
Moreover, I have also voted against the paragraph relating to the liberalisation and promotion of GMO imports.
My party takes the view that GMOs are not the solution to the issue of global food supply.
Moreover, I think that the call for developing countries to use their land to ensure the food supply for their own population, first and foremost, is of major importance and a matter of extreme urgency.
Providing access to food for all, against a backdrop of rising global demand and food shortages for several billion people across the world, is a huge and essential challenge.
It is with this in mind that, in order to fuel debate, we voted for a resolution recognising agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security.
At a time when we are considering the future of the CAP, it seems necessary not to overlook this need and this right - which should be universal - to food for all.
The common agricultural policy offers answers and solutions to these challenges of the future.
It is important that the objectives and instruments identified by this policy endeavour to meet as fully as possible the need to integrate a specific national dimension into the common agricultural policy's structure.
I voted in favour of this report as food security is a human right which is achieved when all people have access to suitable, safe and nutritious food which can meet their needs for an active and healthy life.
In Europe, 16% of citizens still live below the poverty line, and the accessibility of food remains a key issue to be dealt with.
The new CAP, which should come into force after 2013, needs to respond to food security and other challenges, particularly climate change, the economic crisis and keeping territorial balance within the EU.
Food security is a basic human right.
Food security can be achieved when all people, at all times, have physical and economic access to sufficient food that is safe and meets their dietary needs.
The recommendations contained in the report are realistic and relevant, addressing real issues in this area.
I would like to mention the importance attached to training and encouraging new generations of farmers in the EU, which is vital in the context of an ageing population.
Besides believing that food security is a basic human right, I also regard agriculture as a strategic sector which is absolutely essential to the future of our continent.
In saying this, I wish to assert that the right to food security, besides being a basic human right, should be guaranteed by our internal production.
A common agricultural policy (CAP) is thus essential in order to ensure this objective.
Agriculture plays a key role in the development of communities.
Defining its output as a primary sector in economic terms relates not only to the historical trend of its development, but also, and above all, to its role in stabilising societies and their economies.
Balanced agricultural production has to be attentive not only to the quantities produced, but also, and primarily, to the quality of the output, so that it assists in the healthy development of the population.
From this perspective, therefore, food security plays a key role, and its protection - particularly in terms of traditional and local produce - increases the opportunities for development throughout the territory.
This is an issue that concerns Europeans, naturally, but also citizens throughout the world.
This new policy should therefore be part of a global vision.
The global organisation of agricultural markets needs to be rethought, taking into account the two main inspirations of the common agricultural policy: guaranteeing food security and saving the lifeblood of small farmers and their families, both at home and in the world's poorest countries.
Lastly, the CAP needs to respond clearly and unequivocally to food security and other challenges, most notably, climate change and the economic crisis within the EU.
I voted in favour of the report on recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security, because it tables important proposals on how the common agricultural policy to be put in place after 2013 needs to respond to challenges relating to food security, climate change, the economic crisis and keeping territorial balance within the EU, amongst other things.
The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) recently warned of a possible increase in food prices in 2011 after they reached new historic highs in 2010 in the wake of the food crisis of June 2008.
The prices of sugar and meat are reaching new historic records, and unless there is at least a 2% increase in cereal production, the prices of these commodities will continue to rise.
This initiative should, therefore, be welcomed and, as I stressed in a question put to the European Commission last week, given that price volatility affects everyone involved in the market, I believe that specific measures should be taken with respect to the common agricultural policy to increase production, better supply the markets and ensure greater price stability, as well as guaranteeing that production responds to Europe's production needs.
For this reason, we cannot forget the recommendations of the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organisation on the urgency of an increase in food production of at least 70% to feed a world population which is expected to reach 9 billion by 2050.
I hope that the new common agricultural policy will respond efficiently to the problems facing this sector: climate change, keeping consumer prices steady and guaranteeing incomes for farmers.
The rapporteur tackles a burning issue, pointing out relevant problems that threaten food security, such as price volatility as a result of financial speculation, the usurping of land in developing countries, or insufficient strategic stocks.
Nevertheless, the approach to each of these problems, as to all other problems relating to food security, is very incomplete, at times contradictory and, in some cases, wrong.
The consequences of current agricultural policies - specifically the common agricultural policy and successive reforms of it - are omitted, as are the liberalisation of the markets and dismantling of regulatory instruments, and the resulting ruin of thousands of small and medium-sized producers, faced with prices for their products that often do not cover the costs of production.
I voted in favour of Mrs Srbu's report.
In order to ensure a secure supply of affordable food, the EU must equip itself with a strong common agricultural policy (CAP) that discourages speculation on food commodities and helps young people to enter the farming sector.
I think it is important to emphasise that the future CAP must also provide citizens with access to an adequate supply of food, allow for the dissemination of nutritional information and create better conditions for the implementation of programmes such as school milk and fruit schemes.
Particular attention also needs to be paid to the issue of genetically modified organisms.
Improving food security is one of the challenges that will need to be tackled with the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP) after 2013.
We cannot allow financial speculation to continue causing uncontrolled price rises and global food market volatility.
We will continue to call for the regulation of the markets for agricultural products and their derived products, even though this latter notion is absurd and we should be promoting quality agriculture and short food circuits, while mercilessly pursuing the abuses of intermediaries and large retailers.
We will stand powerlessly by as foreign countries that have wasted their own potential take control of the arable land of the most vulnerable countries, leaving us increasingly worried, but failing to act in the face of what is potentially an explosive situation.
It is essential that the EU takes a coordinated stance in relation to its agriculture sector in order to face the challenges which lie ahead.
However, I do not consider that GMOs have a legitimate role to play in achieving security of food supplies and I could not support a report which proposes to give the green light to genetic modification.
I agreed with this report because food security is a human right, guaranteeing an active and healthy life.
It is important to be sure that food is accessible to all social categories of people.
We must promote not only competitiveness, but also traditional agriculture, small-scale farming, organic farming and local distribution, ensuring agricultural diversity throughout Europe.
Furthermore, in the context of an ageing rural population, I believe it is very important to guarantee access to land and credit for young farmers.
Agriculture is enormously important for global food security and we therefore need to take action.
Securing the incomes of farmers and an adequate supply of good quality food must therefore be key goals of the common agricultural policy.
The fluctuating market prices in the agricultural sector also represent uncertainty factors and need to be dealt with.
Only if the areas of agricultural policy, development policy, trade policy, financial policy and energy policy, as well as research, work together can improvements be achieved.
I voted in favour of the Srbu report because ensuring constant, yet also secure, food stocks is the main role that society assigns to agriculture.
Food security is a basic human right, meaning that all people, at all times, should have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food in order to lead an active life.
At a time like the present, characterised by the debate on the common agricultural policy after 2013, this report allows us to map out some guidelines relating to the ethical, social and economic role that agriculture must play, including in the short term, identifying the risk factors that threaten it and seizing the opportunities to turn it into a bastion of the global fight against hunger.
I voted for the Srbu report on recognition of agriculture as a strategically important sector in the context of food security.
I voted for this report because I consider that the European Union needs a strong agricultural policy which will be based on innovation and primarily aimed at bringing stability to the markets and encouraging and supporting farmers.
At the same time, European consumers are entitled to enjoy healthy, high quality food at reasonable prices, which are the main objectives of the common agricultural policy (CAP) and key objectives of the European Union.
in writing. - I voted for this report, but abstained on the three parts of amendment 14 which dealt with GMOs.
I am not intrinsically against GM foodstuffs but was nervous at this attempt to speed up the importation of GM material and the use of production methods from third countries.
In this context, two of the main issues that this right should address are identified as price volatility in the markets, which are heavily influenced by speculation, and the fall in food reserves.
In a situation where the price of food is heavily influenced by speculators who have no interest whatsoever in agriculture, the report supports the limiting of access to agricultural markets.
The report also proposes the establishment of a global system of food stocks administered by the UN.
In view of this, but so as to encourage the good intentions and suggestions contained in the report, I abstained.
Noting that food security is a fundamental human right, which must be guaranteed, calling for the payment of farmers for their efforts and proposing a system of food stocks administered by the United Nations are all concessions to our theses.
The concept of food security is very clear, and it is achieved when all people, at all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life.
Therefore, there is no doubt that the constant increase in food prices, as a result of increased prices for raw materials, is an increasingly pressing concern for the EU.
In view of future needs, there is no doubt that agriculture has to become a strategic sector, or indeed a crucial sector for the economic development of the EU and the whole world.
When it comes to food security, in particular, there is a problem in that the Member States of the EU are increasingly losing their self-sufficiency.
If we are discussing food security, then, we need to come up with plans for how this worrying trend can be halted and also for how to increase consumers' awareness of regional products.
These aspects are not covered in the report, and I therefore chose to abstain.
The rapporteur stresses the importance of agriculture in relation to the new food challenges.
The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has declared that food production must increase by at least 70%, insofar as the world's population is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050.
The main objectives of the CAP have been: to increase agricultural productivity; to help farmers attain a fair standard of living; to stabilise markets; and to ensure a secure supply of affordable food.
The new CAP should therefore improve food security by increasing productivity, whilst simultaneously encouraging environmentally sustainable food production.
To maintain reasonable food prices and, above all, a decent income for farmers, and to ensure food security, the CAP should be maintained at the current level.
Improving and strengthening food safety controls in the Union and in third countries is essential, and hence, I am in favour of the resolution.
Food security is a human right, and one of the objectives of the common agricultural policy must be to ensure easy access for all to food, taking into account population growth, climate change, high energy costs and the obstacles of limited natural resources.
I agree with and support the rapporteur, Mrs Srbu, in her plan to ensure that the new post-2013 CAP is able to respond to the requirements and challenges of food security.
in writing. - (PL) Food security is a key challenge for agriculture, not only in the European Union but throughout the world, particularly in developing countries.
According to the FAO, global food demand will double by 2050, and the number of people in the world will grow from the present 7 billion to 9 billion.
Global food production will therefore have to increase correspondingly, against a backdrop of pressure on natural resources.
It is alarming to learn that there are a total of over 1 billion people starving, while in the European Union, over 40 million people living in poverty go hungry.
For this reason, too, I believe that scientific progress should be exploited if it can provide appropriate solutions aimed at alleviating hunger throughout the world, particularly by means of a more effective use of resources.
It was for this reason, among others, that I voted in favour of adopting the report on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security.
I voted in favour of this motion for a European Parliament resolution on recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security because, due to the increasing amount of consumers, the large amount of people suffering from hunger, the situation faced by farmers, fluctuating food prices and speculation in equities, it is particularly important to use certain measures to regulate the agricultural sector.
We must take all necessary measures to ensure that the importation of a new GM feed variant to the EU and the possibility of using production methods brought to bear in third countries do not receive approval.
Food security continues to require a strong common agricultural policy capable of increasing agricultural productivity, stabilising markets and, above all, ensuring a secure supply of affordable food.
My vote is also intended to support the presence of small quantities of genetically modified organisms in products entering the EU.
I voted in favour of the Srbu report because agriculture is an important and growing sector which should be a priority in the policy agenda due to its strategic role in the context of food security.
The recent volatility in prices of food and basic products has raised great concerns in Europe and worldwide.
The financial crisis and increasingly severe weather phenomena such as those that occurred in 2010, with the prolonged drought and fires in Russia and the major floods in Pakistan, have contributed to enormous instability.
I believe that the EU has a duty to feed the European public and the world's population, which is expected to increase by 2 billion and therefore necessitate a 70% increase in the food supplied by the year 2050.
Increased production should meet criteria relating to the environment, food security, animal welfare and labour.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation, production will have to increase by 70% by 2050, since around 900 million people worldwide suffer from hunger, and in Europe alone, 16% of the population live below the poverty line.
A strong common agricultural policy (CAP) is essential and indeed the CAP follows this line, but it needs a reform that will make it sustainable and improve food security.
On a planet with what will soon be 9 billion inhabitants, food supply for the future is a key issue.
We therefore chose to abstain in the final vote.
According to the FAO, food production needs to increase by a minimum of 70% in order to meet the ever-growing demands of the world population, which is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050.
This is why, in order to achieve food security, we continually need a strong, market-orientated, decoupled and environmentally conscious common agricultural policy (CAP) which will also have a significant rural development component and will tackle other challenges, in particular, climate change, the economic crisis and maintaining territorial balance within the EU.
I have highlighted the fundamental nature of this issue of food security on several occasions.
I congratulate Mrs Srbu.
In order to ensure a secure supply of affordable food, the EU must provide itself with a strong common agricultural policy (CAP) that discourages speculation on food commodities and helps young people to enter the farming sector.
Only 7% of farmers in the EU are under 35 years of age, while the EU will need 4.5 million farmers in the next 10 years.
I therefore call for the existing measures for attracting young people to farming, such as installation premiums and subsidised interest rates on loans, to be strengthened.
in writing. - The report was adopted without the support of the Verts/ALE Group, which voted against.
In particular, looking ahead to the common agricultural policy reform planned for 2013, the support given to European farmers must always enable them to meet food safety and environmental standards in full.
Despite the efficiency of European production, around 80 million people still live below the poverty line today, and many of them are helped through food aid programmes.
A strong CAP will preserve farmers' economic role as food producers, but it will also guarantee the livelihood and jobs of more than 28 million citizens employed in Europe's rural areas.
The report's conclusion is also sound: we cannot conceive of reducing the CAP budget.
Parliament has rightly identified the problems which farmers have to contend with in times of extreme market and price volatility and drawn attention to the difficulties which farmers are currently going through in this respect.
The excellent characteristics of agricultural land in the European Union enable many countries, including Hungary, Poland, Italy and France, to produce good quality feed.
The term food security highlights the need to take concrete measures to increase the global food stock: a human right that includes physical and economic access to healthy, sufficient and nutritious food.
The population growth that is forecast and the poverty that persists mean that at least a 70% increase in food production is needed to satisfy the population's needs.
This report takes account of many concerns that are of crucial importance to farmers, such as assistance for small production, young farmers and combating price speculation.
This report also highlights the need for substantial funding for the future common agricultural policy.
This measure fails to take the slightest account of food security and the precautionary principle.
The challenges to be addressed in order to ensure sustainable, secure and fair agriculture are many: adapting to climate change, controlling the effects of globalisation, preserving biodiversity, maintaining farmers' standard of living and guaranteeing our food self-sufficiency in a global market subject to strong pressure.
Agriculture is an integral part of our heritage and has always shaped our identity, way of life and landscapes.
I welcome the EU's efforts in relation to agriculture, but important work still needs to be carried out in connection with the reform of the CAP.
Recognising that agriculture is a strategic sector should be an opportunity to strengthen its social dimension, to which insufficient consideration has been given hitherto.
There can be no doubt that food aid programmes should be put in place for the poorest members of society.
We often forget that nearly 80 million people in the European Union live below the poverty line.
The greatest possible number of local food producers and distributors should be involved in the implementation of programmes of this kind, since this will strengthen the position of small and medium-sized agricultural holdings.
