Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and my colleagues in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality for their strong commitment to fighting violence against women.
This is a type of violence that is inflicted on women precisely because we are women.
I welcome your report, Mrs Svensson, and I welcome this important initiative; it provides the possibility to cooperate, exchange views and create synergies between what the Commission is doing and what the European Parliament is doing in order to define future action in this area.
Women are, of course, particularly vulnerable if they have suffered violence in their home - rape or sexual abuse, stalking or other kinds of gender-based violence.
Mr President, on most occasions that I have spoken in Parliament, it has been to denounce violence against women, and I am here again to combat it.
Mr President, one in four European women are victims of violence.
More than one in 10 women are victims of sexual attacks, and our children also suffer violence.
Twenty six percent of children report having suffered physical violence during their childhood.
These figures show that Europe has a serious problem that requires action.
That is why this report on violence against women that we are debating today is so important.
Therefore, the Commission must respond now.
That gives us a common goal to make real progress in the coming years.
This report includes many important aspects and we, as Greens, hope that we can vote in favour of it.
Mr President, I welcome this own-initiative report of the European Parliament, and I take the view that Member States must introduce the laws which are essential for stopping violence against women.
The problem of domestic violence is related to this.
Domestic violence has disastrous consequences for all family members, particularly children.
Violence against women, in my opinion, also reflects and reinforces inequalities between men and women, and therefore often determines the position of women in society.
It is therefore time to move from words to actions in order to put an end to this violence, which is clearly one of the most serious forms of human rights violation.
That is why we are calling on the Commission, as well as on the Member States, to take concrete measures as soon as possible in defence of women's rights and against violence. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, combating all forms of violence against women is a priority for the Hungarian Presidency of the European Union.
I believe that the European Commission's acknowledgement in the 2010-2015 Action Plan of the need to combat gender-based violence by all means is a significant step which must be translated into specific actions.
This plan should introduce a package of legal measures and practices to ensure victims of violence are offered adequate protection by national criminal justice systems.
Mothers can no longer instil a sense of security in their children and children become indirect victims of violence.
Not long ago, I visited a shelter in my country, Portugal, and spoke to a number of these women.
Let us therefore combat this scourge together. (PL) Mr President, when discussing how to combat violence against women, we mainly think about violence within families or in personal relationships.
There are situations in which children are removed because the parents are poor.
Instead of helping the family, the children are taken away to a foster family or taken into care.
There are also dramatic cases in which children are taken from their mothers due to disputes between the parents.
The value of the family is depreciating in Europe, and the state is interfering more and more in family life.
This not infrequently results in state-sanctioned violence which harms parents and which, above all, harms children.
Therefore, the Commission needs to set up a European strategy as soon as possible in order to combat violence against women, a strategy which will address traditional harmful practices, in particular.
Today, rather than tomorrow, and not just in 2012 or 2013.
The European Parliament has far-reaching opportunities to improve this situation, particularly in countries where women are in a particularly difficult situation due to widespread poverty.
This is a very important message, and I am grateful to those who initiated this report for perceiving this problem and for actively taking measures to resolve it. (HU) Mr President, I, too, would like to thank the rapporteur for her report as I believe that it deals with a very important social problem.
I would like to emphasise, in particular, that the report points out that violence against women in Europe causes damage in the order of billions each year.
Thank you very much. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Svensson.
This should be all-inclusive, in the sense that it should cover domestic violence and genital mutilation, but also some more insidious forms.
After the directive on trafficking in human beings and the imminent directive on the victims of violence, announced by Commissioner Malmström, I think that the Treaty of Lisbon has laid the basis for achieving greater legal harmonisation in the way Member States acknowledge the importance of crimes of violence against women and children as specific forms of violence, as well as defining the essential standards of services for consulting, legal assistance and protection for women and children in cooperation with NGOs.
It will also lead to consistent and comparable statistics with impact analyses of forms of prevention and enforcement by Member States to ensure a reduction in violence.
I think, in this respect, that there is a common will by Parliament - I was one of the signatories to the written declaration - to define a year of reflection across Europe on the theme of violence, and I think that Parliament can add its very strong and very influential voice to this. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is a serious violation of human rights, as we have all already asserted.
The damage to the physical and mental health of women who are victims is incalculable, but society also bears high costs.
For this reason, the organisation of a European year of combating violence against women is to be welcomed, as it will have the effect of raising awareness of this terrible scourge among the European public. (LT) Mr President, I would like to thank Eva-Britt Svensson for preparing an excellent report.
I would therefore like to call on the Member States to ensure better training for healthcare providers, social workers, the police and judicial authorities, and well coordinated cooperation, to enable them to respond to all cases of violence against women in a professional manner.
The various forms of violence against women damage not only the women themselves, but also their families.
We must therefore pay attention at the European level to the possible exposure of women and children to domestic violence.
Women are also exposed to gender-based abuse through various forms of violation of personal freedoms, since human trafficking for sexual purposes in particular, for example, is one of the most serious problems affecting all of society.
As a general rule, I particularly appreciate the fact that the European Union is composed of States with diverse and varied national cultures and traditions, but when it comes to violence, I am appalled to see the differences in treatment that exist.
I therefore call on the Commission urgently to develop an effective road map against all forms of violence. (DE) Mr President, it has been very clear in the debate that violence against women is not a trivial offence; it is quite clearly a violation of human rights.
The trigger for this report, for which I am very grateful to Mrs Svensson, was, in this case, not only the fact that it was noticed in the context of the report on equality that equality is also put at serious risk as a result of violence against women, but also the fact that, through the Treaty of Lisbon, we now have the opportunity to enact a directive and to establish a common legal framework in Europe.
That is urgently needed for us to make significant progress here, because this is a cross-border European problem that we must combat. (DE) Mr President, violence against women takes many forms, and it remains an international problem with which the international community has still not managed to get to grips.
I believe that it is time for us to quantify these costs and attempt to respond to this situation using not only financial means, but also suitable legal instruments for tackling this problem. (HU) Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
I am proud of the fact that in Hungary, it was I who wrote the first two books on the phenomenon of violence against women about 15 years ago.
I have a suggestion: instead of asking the governments, ask the abused women concerned: for example, women who have been abused and taken refuge in shelters for women should be asked about the help they have received and the attitude of authorities to their cases in general, or girls and women suffering on the streets of Budapest or, say, Amsterdam, and who are hoping to escape from the hell of prostitution, should be asked about the type of help they have received from their state or government. (RO) Mr President, as is also clearly indicated in the report, the efforts to reduce violence against women must be supported on two fronts: at Member State level and through measures and programmes managed directly by the European Commission.
Finally, the political effort must be backed up with financial support, and the Daphne Programme can provide a suitable framework for this. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, when it comes to equality issues, the European Union was, and is, at the forefront; it is also at the forefront in the fight against violence against women.
The strategy should also consider a free legal service and social assistance for victims of violence.
We also have the general equality policy for prevention programmes, awareness-raising and so on.
I would also like to mention two other proposals that you have adopted: the directive on combating trafficking, for instance, contains a lot of preventive measures but also support for victims, for women and children who are victims of trafficking for sexual and other purposes.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking my fellow Members for their very wise words during the debate and, above all, for the resolve that I can see that all my fellow Members have to fight this violence.
To the Commission, I would like to say that we look forward to the victims of crime package to provide further support for victims, but we also need a directive to combat this violence.
I would also like to emphasise how important it is to show that this is a problem that cuts across all social groups.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 5 April 2011.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - I wish to express support for this report and its recommendations.
In 2005, the National Crime Council found that one in seven women in Ireland have experienced severe abusive behaviour of a physical, sexual or emotional nature from their partner.
Almost a quarter of women in Europe have suffered acts of physical violence at least once and more than a tenth have been subjected to sexual violence.
The deadening pseudo-morality found in society should give us pause for thought.
The disregard for women has reached peak levels when a German judge refers to the husband's right of procreation as a decisive factor in her judgment in a Muslim divorce case.
Women, like children, are particularly fragile members of our society in some contexts.
I therefore think it is important to ensure greater protection to women who claim they have suffered violence.
Whether we are talking about sexual abuse, the trafficking of women for prostitution, domestic violence or even violence with a cultural dimension - I am thinking here of genital mutilation and forced marriages - they are still serious crimes.
Unfortunately, it has not been possible to stop violence against women in Europe and in the world as a whole, even though the European Union and the UN have stated that combating violence against women is a priority for them.
The Treaty of Lisbon also provides the legal competence for this.
I consider it extremely important for the European Union to pay more attention in its legislation to violence which takes place between people in close relationships, because this is by no means a private matter.
We should therefore also direct particular attention to developing a victim support system and overturning taboos that exist in society - in other words, we should improve people's awareness.
One definite problem is a lack of shelters in Europe designed for women and children who have suffered violence, so the objective to build one shelter per 10 000 inhabitants for victims of crime is an entirely reasonable and necessary one.
I call on the Commission to take action in this direction.
The data in the report speaks of one woman in four experiencing physical violence in adulthood, with more than 10% of women becoming victims of sexual violence.
Violence against women has enormously destructive effects, not only on the women themselves, but also negative consequences for the people around them, and children in particular.
I also welcome the report because of the need to send a clear and strong message to society that violence will not be tolerated.
The individual Member States must play a greater role in this, drawing up action plans for combating violence against women, boosting media awareness and adopting specific criminal laws and measures.
in writing. - (PL) Unfortunately, despite all our efforts, violence against women, and violence in other areas of life, is still a major problem in Europe.
Violent crimes are committed in all Member States, and they affect people from all social strata.
This means that the fight against this problem and assistance for its victims must be multi-faceted.
