The ratification process began in September 2008 when the Serbian Parliament first ratified this agreement.
In 2009, there were no reports of Serbia on the European Parliament's agenda because the ratification process in the Member States stalled following Serbia's failure to cooperate fully with the Hague-based International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY).
The resolution on Serbia, on which we will be voting tomorrow, carries precisely this message of support.
We have sincerely welcomed Serbia's willingness to compromise and the adoption by the UN General Assembly of a joint resolution on Kosovo in September 2010.
On 1 January 2011, Serbia abolished compulsory military service, and generations of young Serbian citizens have been given an additional opportunity to learn, study and develop.
The time has come for Serbia to close this painful chapter and to make a new step towards reconciliation in the region.
Serbia will not be able to secure candidate status until it demonstrates that it is fully cooperating with the Hague Tribunal, as stated in the Council conclusions of 25 October 2010.
This also holds true for Serbia's relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Belgrade needs to support the reforms that will enable Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a country with its own institutions, to negotiate on its membership of the European Union.
I should also like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the rapporteur of the European Parliament, Mr Jelko Kacin, who drafted an excellent report on the subject, and to warmly welcome the resolution on Serbia's European integration process.
Your votes will do even more to give prominence to and further this process, due to the unanimous support that was expressed by all political forces at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 1 December.
Serbia expressed its commitment to the European Union by its request for accession submitted in December 2009.
I also welcome Serbia's close cooperation with the European Union in the summer of 2010 and the resultant UN resolution that opened the way to dialogue between Belgrade and Priština.
This is a major challenge, but the possibility of creating a dialogue offers both Kosovo and Serbia the chance of coming closer to the European Union.
I welcome the opportunity which this new agreement gives Serbia so that we may build together a joint future in a peaceful Europe.
The fundamental objective of this agreement is to pave the way for further European integration and reforms and to prepare Serbia for European Union membership.
It officially entered into force in February 2010, but Serbia decided to apply it shortly after it was signed in April 2008.
Since 14 June 2010, when the Council decided to launch the ratification process for the agreement, nine Member States have notified ratification and two more have secured the approval of their parliaments.
The resolution sends Serbia both a message of support for enhancing EU-Serbia relations, and a message of expectation in relation to the key challenges on Serbia's path to European Union membership.
I am encouraged by the Serbian Government's adoption on 30 December of an action plan as a follow-up to the Commission's progress report.
As my Hungarian colleague said, 2011 is an important year for Serbia: a year of demanding challenges as well as a year of opportunities.
The decision to opt for Europe, therefore, is a considerable achievement and signals that Serbia has become a factor of stability in the region.
Two major political problems remain: the arrest and transfer of Ratko Mladić to The Hague, and coming to terms with the independence of Kosovo.
