I agree with the measures and good practice proposed by Mr Mikolášik, and I believe that the proposal for broader application of core indicators is a particularly useful one, as is the preparation of reports on the results and synergies between national policies and European Union policies.
The organisation of public debates and consultations with stakeholders, together with the submission of reports to national parliaments for opinions are further positive measures in this sense.
We have to make efforts to prevent a reduction in the funding made available for cohesion policy in the next programming period.
For this reason, I supported this report. (SK) Madam President, allocations from EU funds in the new Member States, Slovakia included, are negatively influenced by over-complexity, excessive bureaucracy, unclear rules and also hidden unfair interests.
Unless European rules are simplified, under pressure from the European Parliament and others, the rules implemented in the individual Member States will often complicate the situation considerably.
While the original European rules are relatively simple, the national implementation complicates them.
The problem is therefore mainly in the EU Member States. (DE) Madam President, there is a reason why we have cohesion policy, and such policy has a clear beginning and it must also have an end.
I believe that the reason cohesion policy exists is to balance living standards and economic development throughout the European Union.
This report is very important to me because it also contains an analysis, thus providing the basis for conclusions for the next two support periods.
In the Member States we have tangible benefits from the pursuit of this policy, which in conjunction with EU agricultural policy is reducing disparities in development both in the Union as a whole as well as between regions and within regions.
I share the view that the objectives of cohesion policy and the funding made available should be maintained in their current form, but this will of course be modified to accommodate the intermediate regions.
We should note that this policy is evaluated well by Member States and local governments, and I would also like to point here to the favourable position of the Committee on Regional Development.
There are expectations regarding a reduction of the bureaucracy involved in cohesion policy.
These expectations are often also the result, as has already been pointed out here, of additional restrictions introduced by Member States.
Everyone can now see that a default in Greece is coming, except the euro zone finance ministers who, 13 months after uselessly committing EUR 110 billion, now seem set to commit a further sum almost as large.
Thus are the interests of Greek workers and the interests of European taxpayers alike sacrificed to the ambitions of a small number of the gilded princelings of the eurocracy. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of setting up horizontal multi-fund programmes with clearly defined aims and streamlined access mechanisms is something I fully support.
We need to focus attention on the urban dimension and to ensure coordination between the funds and the other financial instruments of the European Investment Bank (EIB) and European Investment Fund (EIF).
In a situation in which the budget is tight, these instruments, together with revolving funds, would allow results to be monitored.
This would multiply the available resources and increase the number of beneficiaries, which in turn would deliver more results. (DE) Madam President, we need to achieve greater efficiency between the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the other structural funds.
I believe that it is extremely important that we should have different funds.
Naturally, these funds should have different objectives and targeted approaches.
However, it is just as important that this targeted approach should also look at how matters are implemented in the regions, so that these funds do not impede one another, so that we do not duplicate subsidies, so that we do not promote nonsensical programmes - in other words we must coordinate the objectives pursued with these funds.
Another programme, financed from a different fund, cannot be used, even when it is striving for similar objectives.
While welcoming the resolution's call for the introduction of a coordination mechanism that has even greater impact, I therefore also urge you to change the rules on transferring fund money, making them as flexible as possible. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the reports, with the exception of Mrs Wortmann-Kool's report, on which I abstained despite supporting my group's amendments.
Therefore I did not vote following the overall indications of my group, because I believe that we are facing such serious problems that we must at this point demonstrate the cohesion of European institutions and our ability to deal with the problems we are confronting.
I did not agree with the postponement either, because we are in a position in which we need to give our citizens urgent responses to the economic crisis, which is not just the result of financial speculation, but also of our inability to deal with the problems of recovery and growth.
We have a duty to heal Europe's public finances and we have a duty to set out responses, which have to begin with the involvement of businesses and the world of work, and have different and more open rules in order to complete the single market and be in a better position to compete on the global market.
That is why I voted for the reports with the exception of Mrs Wortmann-Kool's report. (SK) Madam President, the first decade of economic and monetary union has shown the need to improve the economic governance framework.
The new framework should be based on the greater responsibility of individual Member States for jointly agreed rules and policies, as well as a more reliable surveillance framework at EU level over national economic policies.
The experience of the past two years in particular has confirmed that the achievement of strong competitiveness, sustainable economic growth and job availability requires a sustainable level of government deficit and debt, reforms to eliminate macroeconomic imbalances and a decisive EU strategy for growth and employment.
If we adopted a tenth part of their policy we would be in serious trouble, but they have got one thing right - which is that these bail-outs are punishing the majority of people in order to reward some very wealthy individuals.
But - you know what? - we are recreating exactly that system by shovelling around this public money in order to save some vested interests.
Therefore, I have voted in favour of four of the reports on economic governance.
I have not voted in favour of the Wortmann-Kool report either - I have voted against it - because it does not take into account the Stability and Growth Pact, the European Employment Strategy or the Europe 2020 strategy objectives, which are a source of hope for millions of Europeans, particularly the young. (DE) Madam President, I believe that the approach to excessive deficits is a bit like a football match: if a set of rules is established, then these must be adhered to.
I would like to pick up on some of the clumsy vocabulary that we have heard in recent weeks in discussion of these financial rescue packages.
The talk in our media is about rescuing Greece, giving assistance to Portugal, and helping Ireland, but that is not how the peoples in the recipient countries see it.
We cannot bring ourselves to see the logic: that jamming together countries with widely divergent conditions and needs into a single currency was bound to cause precisely the strains that some of us were predicting 10 years ago when the project was launched.
The reality is that this is about saving face: saving the faces of those eurocrats who launched the project in the first place and who are prepared to sacrifice the peoples of the peripheral countries and the taxpayers of the poor countries in order to sustain their conceit.
The economic governance reports on the whole are not, in my view, the best option, but in the situation in which we find ourselves, they are probably the least worst.
Now we are in a position where we either give up on the currency or we try to put in place some form of economic governance that will strengthen its foundations and in some way rebuild the infrastructure.
I agree with Mario Monti, who said that excessive deference to large Member States contributed somewhat to the current economic crisis, and our proposals might at least stop that happening in the future.
This proposal on consumer protection, however, was specifically about more integration, and is completely relevant.
We support the rights of citizens and consumer protection when we engage in international, European trade.
We know that online shopping is a contemporary phenomenon, but that the laws that govern it are behind the times, and now it is time to move on.
In my country, Finland, this legislation is now at a fairly advanced stage, and sometimes, obviously, it makes you wonder if we are not going backwards when we make common laws.
Nevertheless, trade is European, so the laws have to be European, and this is the path we need to continue along. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a Directive on Consumer Rights presented by the Commission has the merit of combining the four previous directives on the subject in a single legislative instrument.
It is essential to guarantee a high level of protection for consumers in the 27 Member States and at the same time take into due account the need for manufacturers, regardless of their size, to provide their goods and services to European consumers without having to deal with unnecessary legal barriers.
As things currently stand, the elimination of legal fragmentation is a difficult result to achieve.
Mrs Wortmann-Kool's report also rightly expresses doubts as to whether full harmonisation could produce different effects to those expected.
I therefore voted in favour, because I am convinced that it would be useful to make an amendment to the Commission's proposal, achieving minimum harmonisation and at the same time guaranteeing a high-level service to consumers. (PL) Madam President, with today's vote, we have brought to an end the lengthy process of over three years' work on the draft of a Directive on Consumer Rights.
The document gives a guarantee of a high level of consumer protection in all the Member States and will help clarify areas of confusion in retail trade conducted between businesses and consumers from different countries.
The provisions of the directive should play a particular role in matters relating to all types of online transaction.
I hope the proposed legislation will increase consumers' confidence in this form of making purchases.
Of special importance to the consumer is also the establishment of the right to withdraw from a contract within a 14-day period without giving a reason and the related right to obtain reimbursement of all payments which have been made.
I also have a positive opinion of the final version of the provisions of Chapter 5 on prohibited contractual terms.
I am certain that the directive will significantly improve consumer rights in the European Union, so I endorsed the report. (DE) Madam President, please forgive me for demanding your attention so often.
Unfortunately, this was not my week with the catch-the-eye procedure.
I also voted in favour.
I am also pleased that we have been able to strengthen consumer rights and have included so-called door-to-door selling, because a lot of shady practices are to be found there.
In Germany we have a particularly large number of small and medium-sized businesses.
Although these businesses are not involved in door-to-door selling, they naturally make frequent deals with customers that are concluded with a handshake.
This has been the practice for hundreds of years.
I voted in favour of the report, of course, but I regret to say that the Hungarian Presidency blocked my proposal - supported by the whole of Parliament - to give consumers the right to the supply of goods from another state under agreed conditions.
Unfortunately, one third of cross-border orders are rejected in this way, according to Eurostat.
Internet stores such as iTunes and others do not supply their goods or services to the new Member States.
The internal market is thus still not a single market as far as the digital environment is concerned, and the Council has thus missed a great opportunity. (LT) Madam President, the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is particularly important, both for the safety of the environment and people and for that of society.
Regrettably, sometimes when we are playing our political games we want to insert various provisions in documents that may be counterproductive.
When they joined the European Union, certain Member States brought with them the burden of nuclear power plants that had been imposed on them against their will.
The microfinance facility itself, although it is very small, plays a really important role in ensuring access to credit for micro-enterprises in the social economy and it is crucial, now that financial institutions are not lending money.
But also I just want to say that I strongly support the increased support for the lifelong learning programme Grundtvig, and I particularly also welcome increasing support for the Life+ Programme. (FI) Madam President, this extremely important report was adopted, and, firstly, we should thank and applaud the rapporteur, Mr Dess, who has worked very hard indeed to achieve these compromises, so that this reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP) could be taken forward in such a significant way.
It is important that agricultural producers are involved in the sustainable environmental policy, but how will this greening system be established?
If it is successful in this way, and when the Commission makes detailed proposals afterwards, then we will be on the right path, and we can all rejoice that farmers are involved in volunteer moves to protect the environment. (ES) Madam President, I voted in favour of this initiative because Europe needs a strong common agricultural policy without cuts, a policy focused on promoting profitable farms and ensuring food security, sufficient supply and quality of production.
Accordingly, the new CAP must strengthen its commitment to active farmers, and to the contributions that they make in terms of production and a balanced development of rural areas.
In this context, I have also supported the numerous findings and critical opinions of the European Parliament.
I am fundamentally opposed to the continued application of the historical approach to the subsidy system, and I support the introduction of additional objective criteria which take account of the conditions for agricultural funding within the expanded Europe of 27 states.
In my opinion, the so-called subsidy ceiling is a complication which will not improve conditions for farmers in the new Member States.
The second pillar must be focused on the modernisation of agriculture, on competitiveness and on rural development cofinanced from national sources. (PL) Madam President, the European Parliament has adopted the report on the common agricultural policy (CAP) towards 2020.
I voted against it, because the measures it proposes are not real reforms, but only cosmetic and minor changes which support and maintain the current unfair CAP.
After 20 years of stagnation in food production in Europe and low incomes for farmers we have had enough.
I want to underscore this clearly: a strong second pillar should be maintained, and this should include retention of the current criteria for distribution of funds, which take account of differences in the level of development of individual Member States.
Finally, greater coordination is needed between regional policy and the common agricultural policy in rural areas.
Some of the responsibilities of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy should be transferred to cohesion policy.
It was supported by my group because it would have allowed specific aid under the first pillar to compensate for natural handicaps and also to ensure that agricultural activity was maintained in mountainous areas, in environmentally sensitive areas and in Natura 2000 regions.
Finally, I was pleased that we overwhelmingly voted that the budget be maintained at least at the 2013 level.
Without that, all the rest of it is just talk. - (CS) Madam President, the European Parliament has today adopted the report on the common agricultural policy towards 2020.
I subscribe to the report's long-term objective of trying to introduce fair conditions for all farmers in the EU, which means abandoning the historic criteria for direct payments.
Despite this, I did not vote for the report, as I want to express my fundamental disagreement with the adoption of the proposal for a ceiling on payments based on farm size.
I personally favour the development of small farms, but this is a measure that will reduce the competitiveness of European farmers in some countries. (GA) Madam President, I was happy to back this report and I commend the rapporteur, Mr Dess, for the good work he has done.
Thank you. (LT) Madam President, the common agricultural policy is one of the biggest and at the same time most sensitive areas of European Union policy, and it is relevant to all Member States.
Unfortunately, the number of workers migrating has been highest in rural areas.
Written explanations of vote I voted for this nomination for the President of the European Central Bank (ECB), given the candidate's skills and the extensive experience that he has gained over the years.
Members of the European Central Bank (ECB) Executive Committee are appointed by the Heads of State or Government, following a proposal by the Council and following consultation with the European Parliament.
To ensure a strong economy, a really effective Stability and Growth Pact is required, equipped with automatic penalties.
As an Italian Member of the European Parliament I welcome the candidature of Mario Draghi as President of the European Central Bank (ECB).
At a particularly complicated time for Europe, Mr Draghi will certainly be capable of responding to the needs of the European financial system and guaranteeing financial stability and support for economic growth.
I therefore sincerely wish him good luck.
In this period of economic and financial crisis, it is imperative to have leaders and people in charge who can show composure and independence.
Jean-Claude Trichet, President of the European Central Bank, has managed during his mandate to resist pressure from Heads of State or Government.
I voted in favour of Italian Mr Draghi's candidacy, since he enjoys an excellent reputation and he made a good impression during his hearing before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
His career path, especially his experience as Governor of the Italian Central Bank, will enable him, I hope, to manage in the best possible way the many challenges that await him at the helm of the European Central Bank.
in writing. - (SK) In May 2011, the European Council, together with Parliament, proposed the appointment of Mario Draghi as President of the European Central Bank (ECB) for an eight-year term of office, starting on 1 November 2011.
Moreover, you cannot ignore the role of Goldman Sachs in the current speculation on sovereign debt, any more than its responsibilities in the economic and financial crisis, and the investigations it is undergoing in the United States.
in writing. - (IT) I am very pleased with the result achieved today, with the broad majority voting in favour of the Council's recommendation for the appointment of Mario Draghi as the next President of the European Central Bank.
It is an important recognition of the commitment and competence of a man who represents our country and who will have the difficult and, at the same time, prestigious task of leading the ECB at a time like the present, in which Europe is having to deal with the effects of a serious economic and financial crisis.
We congratulate the former Governor of the Bank of Italy on his candidacy and for having been capable at the European Parliament hearing of demonstrating his abilities and potential in tackling the problems he will have to face.
in writing. - The European Parliament - having regard to the Council's recommendation of 16 June 2011 (10057/2011), having regard to Rule 109 of its Rules of Procedure, having regard to the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, whereas by letter of 20 May 2011 the European Council consulted the European Parliament on the appointment of Mario Draghi as President of the European Central Bank for a term of office of eight years with effect from 1 November 2011, whereas Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs then proceeded to evaluate the credentials of the nominee, in particular in view of the requirements laid down in the second subparagraph of Article 283(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and in the light of the need for full independence of the European Central Bank pursuant to Article 130 TFEU, and whereas in carrying out that evaluation, the committee received a curriculum vitae from the candidate as well as his replies to the written questionnaire that was sent out to him - delivers a favourable opinion on the Council recommendation to appoint Mario Draghi as President of the European Central Bank.
He was a Vice-President and Director of US investment bank Goldman Sachs, where his responsibilities included Europe and contact with the national governments there.
As a representative of a southern euro area Member State which is faced with enormous financial problems, his appointment will also send out completely the wrong signal to the markets and our citizens, who do not want a transfer union, but rather a stable currency.
After the excellent hearing held at the parliamentary Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I hereby put forward with conviction my vote in favour of the nomination of Mario Draghi to the European Central Bank (ECB).
I am convinced that Mario Draghi will know how to manage this future role as President of the ECB, as he has proved in his time at the Bank of Italy, and that he will do so by offering to Europe his wealth of experience and great competence.
In expressing my contentment at the progress of the Bank of Italy, that elite Italian institution which has attained the highest levels of development, I would like once more to stress the high technical profile of Mario Draghi, the next President of the ECB.
Confident that the Council will confirm Parliament's vote in favour, I guarantee Mario Draghi, in my capacity as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the utmost readiness to take part in a fruitful collaboration with the ECB, particularly at this time of difficulty for the euro and the EU.
I can only be in favour of the choice to put Mario Draghi forward as the new President of the European Central Bank (ECB) for an eight-year term beginning next November.
In this time of difficulty, I believe it is fundamental to have a person of the very highest calibre at the helm of the ECB, and Mario Draghi is a perfect representation of this profile.
The main strategic goal of the European Central Bank (ECB) is to maintain price stability in the EU, thus making a key contribution to resolving the economic and financial difficulties that the Member States are experiencing.
I also believe that the new President of the ECB will implement a culture of honesty and rigour, as well as helping to set out robust and consistent economic policy, sending a clear signal of confidence to the international markets.
The appointment of Mr Draghi at the helm of the European Central Bank (ECB) is, to my mind, a completely justified decision, since it confirms the desire of the European Union to continue the work started by its current president, Jean-Claude Trichet.
In a context where the economic situation of some countries like Greece is weakening the euro, the will and determination shown by Mr Draghi for steering a steady course for a strong currency are indispensable for ensuring the credibility of our economy.
Faced with the challenges that we need to take up in order for our economy to pick up, I am delighted at the appointment of someone who has managed to create a consensus and who has proven capable of paving the way for a stable, strong and competitive monetary union.
In this case, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) will be used to support former workers of General Motors Belgium and four of its suppliers operating in the motor vehicle sector between June 2010 and October 2010.
I have voted in favour of this initiative to help the 2 834 people made redundant by General Motors Belgium reintegrate back into the labour market because, as a result of the world economic and financial crisis, this company has not been able to expand the Antwerp production plant.
I welcome the agreement reached by the social partners regarding the package of proposed measures.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Matera because the features of the issue presented by Belgium on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) correspond to the conditions required to access this Fund.
in writing. - The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is instrumental in alleviating the strains on workers that result as a consequence of changes in global work trade patterns.
In the context of General Motors Belgium I believe that the conclusions that have been reached by the rapporteur are justified and have hence decided to vote in favour of this dossier.
I am also voting for the decision to mobilise the EGF in favour of Belgium, for the benefit of workers in the automotive sector, through measures that form a coordinated package of personalised services intended to reintegrate them into the labour market.
After the huge wave of redundancies by General Motors Belgium and four of its subcontractors working in the motor vehicle sector, last year, Belgium requested, on 20 December 2010, aid from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to help retrain the 2 834 workers made redundant.
This European fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who lose their jobs because of changes in world trade.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) to be necessary following the redundancies in the enterprise General Motors Belgium and four of its suppliers.
The efforts made by the Belgian authorities should be stressed: they have tabled a series of important measures for helping the affected workers to seek employment.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created in 2006 with the objective of providing additional support for workers suffering the consequences of major structural changes to the patterns of world trade, in order to enable them to re-enter the labour market.
It was expanded in 2009 to include workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
This is the third application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to EUR 9 593 931 from the EGF for the reintegration into the labour market of 2 834 workers from General Motors Belgium and four of its suppliers from Antwerp.
This report is on the proposal for a decision of Parliament and the Council on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), in accordance with point 28 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
On 20 December 2010 the enterprise General Motors Belgium, in the automotive sector, submitted an application for the EGF, having been forced to make 2 834 workers redundant from the main company and four of its suppliers.
The current economic and financial crisis gives the EGF a crucial role in mitigating the social impact of the bankruptcy of many companies, often caused by the aggressive economic policies of emerging markets.
This is the third application to be examined under the 2011 EU budget.
Given that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria, I agree with the rapporteur's recommendations and am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision.
There have been requests for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in cases of mass redundancies across Europe.
This case concerns the mobilisation of more than EUR 9 million for Belgium to provide assistance to about 2 800 workers made redundant in the automotive sector.
Although we maintain our critical position regarding the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), since we believe it would have been more important to have taken measures to prevent the unemployment in the first place, we voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund in order to provide further assistance for workers affected by the consequences of companies restructuring or of the liberalisation of international trade.
This case concerns the mobilisation of more than EUR 9 million for Belgium to provide assistance to about 2 800 workers made redundant in the automotive sector.
in writing. - (SK) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was set up with the aim of providing sufficient support to workers feeling the effects of major structural changes in global trade.
Under the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, the Fund cannot exceed a maximum annual sum of EUR 500 million.
In April 2011 the Commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the Fund to assist Belgium, in order to support the re-entry onto the labour market of workers previously made redundant due to the financial and economic crisis.
The Commission assessment was based on an evaluation of the connection between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade or the financial crisis.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this report, because Belgium has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 2 834 redundancies (all targeted for assistance) in the primary enterprise General Motors Belgium and four of its suppliers operating in the motor vehicle sector in the NUTS II region of Antwerp in Belgium.
On 20 December 2010, Belgium submitted an application to mobilise the EGF, in respect of redundancies in the enterprise General Motors Belgium and four of its suppliers, and supplemented it with additional information by 24 January 2011.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Belgium because I believe this instrument represents a valuable resource to support workers who find themselves in difficulty on account of the economic crisis.
As stated on a number of occasions, since 2006 the EGF has provided practical support to European workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created to provide additional support to workers who are suffering the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
We believe that the application satisfies the criteria of eligibility as established in the regulations of the EGF and we advocate its approval by putting forward our positive opinion of it.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could vote against the beggarly sum that the European elites are granting them.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
in writing. - It is known that the mobilisation of the adjustment fund concerns 2834 redundancies (all targeted for assistance) in the primary enterprise General Motors Belgium and four of its suppliers operating in the motor vehicle sector in the region of Antwerp, during the four-month reference period from 14 June to 14 October 2010.
Thus, redundant employees will get assistance as personalised measures supported by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which will mobilise EUR 9.59 million for these measures.
in writing. - (DE) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) receives annual funding of EUR 500 million with the aim of providing financial support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns.
Because 2 834 redundancies have occurred at car-makers General Motors Belgium, also leading to further redundancies in four supplier companies, a total of EUR 9 593 931 is to be provided from the EGF for Belgium.
in writing. - (DE) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was set up to support workers who suffer disadvantage as a result of redundancies or other changes as a consequence of globalisation in international competition.
I welcome the fact that the repeated calls from Parliament have resulted in payment appropriations totalling EUR 47 608 950 being identified in the budget for the EGF budget line.
It is for that reason that I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (LT) Money from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) must be used in a targeted and purposeful manner.
It should be noted that those who have been made redundant and their families experience incalculable moral and material damage.
I also call on other Member States, where companies are making employees redundant due to the financial crisis, to immediately seek financial assistance in order to mitigate the negative consequences, address employment issues, and encourage job retention and creation.
Unfortunately, we are called on once again to vote on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the patterns of world trade.
On 14 April 2011, the Commission adopted a new draft decision on the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of Belgium, with the aim of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
Given that the application fulfils all the necessary requirements for mobilising this financial aid mechanism, I voted in favour of this report.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
On 14 April 2011 the Commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of Belgium with a view to supporting the reintegration into the labour market of 2 834 workers made redundant in the primary enterprise General Motors Belgium and in four of its suppliers in the motor vehicle sector in Antwerp.
The Commission's evaluation is based on examinations of several aspects of this issue, such as: the link between the redundant workers and major structural changes in world trade patterns; the financial crisis; the unforeseen nature of the redundancies in question; demonstration of the number of redundancies; explanation of the unforeseen nature of these redundancies; identification of the dismissing enterprises and of the workers targeted for assistance; the territory concerned with its respective authorities and stakeholders; the impact of the redundancies as regards local, regional or national employment; and the coordinated package of personalised services to be funded.
To ensure that these persons are reintegrated into the labour market, I vote in favour of the proposal in question.
The aim of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is to help workers who suffer the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them re-enter the labour market.
It is precisely with this in mind that swift support must be offered to the 2 834 workers made redundant by General Motors in the Antwerp region.
We need to back Parliament's proposal to mobilise EUR 9 593 931, which will provide specific personalised services such as assistance with job search, training for job interviews, assistance with self-employment and individual vocational training.
Nevertheless, European aid should not relieve companies of their responsibility and their necessary efforts towards adapting their strategies to current challenges.
The view expressed today concerns the 2 834 redundancies, all targeted for assistance from the Fund, in the primary enterprise General Motors Belgium and four of its suppliers operating in the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. - (NL) The former employees and the four suppliers of Opel Antwerp are still angry at the way they were treated by GM.
Belgium quite rightly applied for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), which was set up in order to provide additional support to workers faced with the consequences of major structural changes in global commercial trade.
Following a favourable opinion from the Commission, the European Parliament today rightly decided to make a total sum of EUR 9 593 931 available from the EGF in order to mitigate the impact on these workers, who had been made compulsorily redundant.
I am pleased that this House is today explicitly stating that there was a lack of willingness on the part of the Opel management to adapt to the challenges of the day.
There was a lack of coordination of long-term measures to support this sector in the various national recovery plans.
Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 20 December 2006, established the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) with the aim of supporting workers who lose their jobs due to structural changes in the context of the global economy.
With a budget of EUR 500 million for 2011, the Commission believes EUR 9 593 391 should be made available for Belgium, so that it can address the redundancies at General Motors Belgium and its four suppliers and producers in the Antwerp region respectively.
I also believe that the European institutions should expedite the mobilisation of the EGF for Belgium, as the Member State is guaranteeing the integration into active life of the workers made redundant as a result of globalisation.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) with regard to the enterprise General Motors Belgium, located in the Antwerp region, which is involved in machinery and equipment production.
During the period from 14 June to 14 October 2010, 1 336 redundancies were made, while another 1 498 redundancies were made prior to and after the period in question.
A 23.8% drop in the assembly of motor vehicles and a 34.8% fall in the production of passenger vehicles were recorded in Belgium in 2009, compared with 2008.
I call for an assessment to be carried out of the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market, as a direct result of the measures funded by the EGF.
The EGF should be used equitably by all Member States.
This decision is all the more unacceptable given that it is taken at a time when the European Union and its Member States are adopting austerity and budget reduction measures that will sustain the economic recession, the dismantling of public services, unemployment, job insecurity, wage cuts and social inequalities.
I am voting for this report, as the new version of the proposal for Rule 51 aims to achieve three important objectives: firstly, making the provision more readily understandable and therefore easier to use; secondly, laying down new conditions governing the application of the procedure; and thirdly, clarifying the objective of the procedure.
My colleague Mr Casini's report confronts and makes a positive contribution towards resolving the problems associated with interpreting and applying Rule 51 of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
The conditions for the application of the procedure with joint meetings of committees and a joint vote - and I am referring in particular to the criteria of 'competence and major importance' of the matter in question - are clear and suited to eliminating the legal uncertainties that have existed up until now.
This report proposes the amendment of Rule 51, after the Conference of Presidents had raised the problem relating to the limitations of the Rules of Procedure with regard to joint meetings of committees.
The report presents a proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure according to which the conditions for the application of Rule 51 would be verified more closely and according to more stringent criteria, including by the Conference of Presidents.
The fact that joint meetings can take place only if the matter in question is one of major importance ensures that there will be no unfairly extensive application of a procedure that is, by its very nature, exceptional.
This proposal responds to underlying questions about the competence of a committee in cases where a legislative dossier is of particular importance, whilst adhering to the principles of equality and cooperation.
Despite the full integration of this new rule, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been charged with clarifying and consolidating the content of this provision so that it is more readily understandable, particularly in the context of the ordinary legislative procedure.
It is clear that dividing the competences of the committees creates some areas of overlap between which it is difficult to distinguish, so I believe that this clarification is a positive step and that the proposed new wording will enable greater consistency in using Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure.
This draft report concerns amendments to Rule 51 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, following both the creation of a working party to undertake a review of the Rules of Procedure and a decision by the Conference of Presidents.
On 6 May 2009 Parliament carried out a review of its Rules of Procedure and introduced, under Rule 51, a new 'procedure with joint committee meetings', in order to streamline procedures regarding the approval of matters that go beyond the competences of a single committee, so that only one report is submitted to plenary, which would reflect the position of all the committees involved.
This proposal clarifies the issues involved and refers its adoption to plenary, bearing in mind the Rules of Procedure in force.
in writing. - (SK) During the previous parliamentary term, the Conference of Presidents set up a Working Party on Parliamentary Reform, which was to review the functioning of Parliament and suggest improvements.
In the chapter on cooperation between committees, the working party proposed not only strengthening the position of an associated committee involved in an associated committee procedure, but also developing a new form of cooperation between committees, introduced on the basis of Rule 51.
The members of the relevant committees can then make a joint declaration on the amendments tabled to the legislative proposal.
in writing. - (LT) The reasoning behind the proposal was that, in certain specific cases, where a legislative dossier does not fall clearly within the competence of one committee but is rather equally divided among two or more committees and is of major importance, the solution to a conflict of competence should be based on the principles of equality and cooperation.
The members of the committees concerned should then vote jointly on the amendments to the legislative proposal tabled.
We support this amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament which allows the Conference of Presidents, in the case of a legislative matter of major importance, to take the decision to implement a procedure with joint meetings of parliamentary committees and a joint vote.
We believe that all this is certainly able to facilitate, in an initial phase, an exchange of arguments between the committees concerned and that, in cases of major importance, it can also be useful in 'preparing the ground' for votes in plenary.
in writing. - Every rule of procedure of the European Parliament should seek three objectives: make the provision more readily understandable and therefore easier to use; lay down new conditions governing the application of the procedure; determine the scope of the procedure.
The new text simplifies the Rule by taking out references to other Rules and by better regulating the standard procedure by which two committees can come together in a joint session to discuss important subjects that reflect mutual interests.
The aim of the amendment consists, therefore, in creating the possibility for the committees concerned to exchange arguments and 'prepare the ground' for a debate.
As part of this process, a new form of cooperation between committees was developed and introduced by means of the new Rule 51.
Some doubts were raised about the implementation of this new form of cooperation between committees, which were referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that this is not a mere matter of interpretation, but an important procedural issue which should be decided by a vote in plenary by the majority applicable in cases relating to the Rules of Procedure, namely a majority of Parliament's Members.
The aim here is to create the opportunity for relevant committees to exchange arguments in an early phase and to 'prepare the ground' for plenary in cases of major importance.
The amendment to Rule 51 proves to be indispensable, rendering the provision more readily understandable and therefore easier to use, laying down new conditions governing the application of the procedure, and determining the scope of the procedure.
In order to achieve these aims the two conditions must be set out in a clear and immediately understandable form.
In order that there may be an amendment to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament on procedures with joint committee meetings, I express my vote in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. - In favour.
In a chapter on cooperation between committees, the working party proposed not only that the position of an associated committee in the procedure with associated committees - Rule 50 (formerly Rule 47) of the Rules of Procedure - should be strengthened, but also that a new form of cooperation between committees, subsequently introduced by means of the new Rule 51, should be developed.
The reasoning behind the proposal was that, in certain specific cases, 'where a legislative dossier does not fall clearly within the competence of one committee but is rather equally divided among two or more committees and is of major importance [...] the solution to a conflict of competence should be based on equality and cooperation.
The new phrasing sets out in a clear and immediately understandable way the conditions for procedures with joint meetings, eliminating the need to refer to other provisions.
Finally, the commonly recognised goal of joint meetings - that of exchanging arguments and opinions in advance to 'prepare the ground' for plenary when the matter at hand is of major importance - is attainable only if committees remain jointly responsible in all stages of the procedure right up to the adoption of the act.
in writing. - (DE) The proposed version of Rule 51 of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure is an attempt to bring the future cooperation of several parliamentary committees within a single legal framework.
The European Parliament voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of Romanian MEP Mr Severin and rightly so.
This company also promised him a paid role as a member of its International Advisory Board.
in writing. - (SK) Adrian Severin, the former Deputy Prime Minister of Romania, was suspended from the Social Democratic Party in his home country after the European Parliament corruption scandal in which he was implicated came to light.
He was also expelled from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, but he remains in office as an MEP.
I personally take the view that the behaviour of my colleague is deplorable, and that any case of - or even sign of - corruption is totally unacceptable.
We need the legislative means to tackle similar situations, and I also firmly believe that if anyone commits a similar transgression he should bear responsibility for his behaviour.
in writing. - The Committee on Legal Affairs, having examined the reasons for and against waiving the Member's immunity, recommends that the European Parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of Adrian Severin, while considering that, until a final sentence is passed, the Member should be immune from any form of detention or remand or any other measure which prevents that Member from performing the duties proper to the mandate.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - In favour.
In the plenary sitting of 6 April 2011, the President announced, in accordance with Rule 6(2) of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that he had received a letter from the National Anti-Corruption Department (Prosecutor's Office of the High Court of Cassation and Justice of Romania) on 5 April 2011 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Adrian Severin.
The President referred the request to the committee responsible, pursuant to Rule 6(2).
On the basis of several considerations and pursuant to Rule 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Legal Affairs, having examined the reasons for and against waiving the Member's immunity, recommends that the European Parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of Adrian Severin, while considering that, until a final sentence is passed, the Member should be immune from any form of detention or remand or any other measure which prevents that Member from performing the duties proper to the mandate.
I am voting for this report, given that the current partnership agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Seychelles has been in force since 2006, and that the protocol for this agreement expired on 17 January 2011.
A new protocol for the period 2011-2014 will be applied on a provisional basis, and I believe this to be sufficient at the present time.
I also welcome the fact that the new protocol includes a suspension clause in case of human rights violations.
Finally, this agreement is going to allow 60 European tuna vessels that fish in the area, namely 48 seiners and 12 long-liners, to fish up to 56 000 tonnes annually.
Finally, the pirate threat over the past year has caused a 25% reduction in fish catches in this fishing ground and the necessary measures must continue to be strengthened in order that vessels are able to fish in suitable conditions.
The previous Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Seychelles, which expired in January 2011 and has been renewed by the Commission for a period of three years, brought mutual benefits as regards their respective interests in the tuna fishing sector.
The agreement has in fact generated 230 crew jobs for the population of the Seychelles, 2 900 jobs in the Seychelles and 760 induced jobs in Europe in areas related to the sector.
The extension of this agreement, which facilitates the stabilisation of the European canned tuna market, is proving to be useful as it guarantees the presence of 60 vessels from the European tuna fleet in the region with the opportunity to create new jobs.
Furthermore, it is also proving to be effective because it has given the Republic of Seychelles the necessary instruments to develop responsible fishing, increasing its stock management and fisheries monitoring capacity.
I voted in favour of this report because the Fisheries Partnership Agreement negotiated between the EU and the Republic of Seychelles for a period of three years will benefit both parties.
The protocol will help to stabilise the European canning market and will also encourage a policy of sustainable fishing in the Seychelles.
This agreement represents 2 900 direct and indirect jobs in the Seychelles and 760 jobs in Europe.
This agreement has resulted in the creation of 230 crew jobs for the Seychelles population, 2 900 jobs in Seychelles and 760 jobs in various areas of the sector in Europe.
It also allows Seychelles to build the means to develop a responsible fishing industry.
The new protocol will strengthen cooperation between the two parties and promote a partnership framework in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
I voted in favour of the report on the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Seychelles, since it provides for the provisional application of a new protocol so that the activity of European ships will not be suspended.
I approve of the fact that the new protocol includes a suspension clause in case of a breach of human rights.
If we do not exploit these resources in a sustainable way, we will move quickly towards the extinction of fish species and increased maritime pollution.
The new protocol provides for more fishing opportunities for European fleets and has resulted in the creation of jobs both in Seychelles and in Europe.
This fisheries protocol ensures fishing opportunities in the Seychelles' exclusive economic zone for various fleets from the Member States.
These include five Portuguese surface long-liners.
The renewal of this protocol aims to support the sustainability of long-distance fishing fleets from the Member States, a section of the fleets that has been particularly affected by the crisis in the fisheries sector in recent years.
However, we cannot fail to point out some doubts that remain - arising from other fisheries partnership agreements - about the effectiveness of the stated objectives of cooperation on sustainable development in the sector for the third country in question, and on the sustainability and monitoring of their fishing activities.
We note the fact that fishing opportunities have been reduced by half and that the cost of licences has been increased to EUR 40 000 for tuna seiners, although there has been an increase in the number of these ships covered by the agreement.
This fisheries protocol ensures fishing opportunities in the Seychelles' exclusive economic zone for various fleets from the Member States, including five Portuguese surface long-liners.
We agree with the renewal of this fisheries protocol, which is important in order to ensure the survival of long-distance fishing fleets from the Member States, a section of the fleets that has been particularly affected by the crisis in the fisheries sector in recent years.
For this reason, the partnership agreement provides for 'the possibility of applying a pro rata temporis payment' to compensate for losses suffered by the shipowners if they are forced to leave the Indian Ocean should they feel their safety to be severely threatened.
On the basis of a Council mandate, the Commission, on behalf of the European Union, negotiated with the Republic of Seychelles the renewal of the Protocol to the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Seychelles.
The agreement is making a substantial contribution to the stabilisation of the European market and to the development of a sustainable fisheries management policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the Seychelles' fishing zone.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because it proposed approving the renewal of the protocol, which expired on 27 January 2011.
The implementation of the protocol has proved effective by providing Seychelles with resources to develop a responsible fishing industry.
The agreement is making a substantial contribution to the stabilisation of the European canned tuna market.
The new protocol is also in line with the objectives of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement aiming at strengthening the cooperation between the two parties and promoting a partnership framework in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the Seychelles' fishing zone.
In light of this, I believe that the proposed new Protocol for the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the EU and Seychelles serves the interests of both parties.
With today's vote we have approved the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Seychelles.
I believe that the negotiations conducted by the European Commission, which permitted the extension of the protocol to the Partnership Agreement, have produced the draft of a document which is mutually advantageous in that it strengthens the level of cooperation between the EU and Seychelles, and promotes a partnership in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy in Seychelles and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the Seychelles' fishing zone.
Contemporaneously, it will promote political dialogue on necessary reforms which aim to strengthen the cooperation between the two parties, by supporting a partnership framework in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the Seychelles' fishing zone.
However, fisheries partnership agreements should not simply be a legal way of allowing European vessels to have access to fish stocks in third countries; they should also be a tool to promote sustainable exploitation of all maritime resources.
We believe that it is of fundamental importance to improve the transparency of the procedures used to identify total catches and guarantee the probity of all the mechanisms with regard to the corruption problem by reinforcing the accountability of the local government.
The European Union must receive regular reports on the implementation of the agreement in order to facilitate monitoring, transparency and policy coherence for development.
in writing. - Fishing by European vessels in Seychelles is governed by a protocol covering the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011.
Seychelles has a 1 374 000 km² exclusive economic zone for a land area of 453 km².
Seychelles' economy relies essentially on tourism and fisheries.
An assessment of the agreement shows that it is relevant in that it helps to maintain the presence of EU fleets in the region while contributing to local job creation.
The implementation of the protocol has proved effective by providing Seychelles with resources to develop a responsible fishing industry.
The agreement is making a substantial contribution to the stabilisation of the European canned tuna market.
The new Protocol will stay in force from 2011 till 2014 and is in line with the objectives of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement aiming at strengthening the cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of Seychelles.
The agreement is strengthening cooperation and promoting a partnership framework, and scientific cooperation in the areas of responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries.
It should be noted that the provisions of the renewed agreement will have a positive impact on the European canned tuna market and will undoubtedly help stabilise it.
Attention should be drawn to the fact that piracy still poses a significant threat to the security of vessels in the Indian Ocean.
Consequently, both parties must take the necessary measures and action to stop this magnitude of illegal activity.
On 17 January of this year the protocol regulating fishing and the respective economic partnership between the EU and Seychelles expired.
The protocol covers a period of three years from the adoption of the Council decision on the signing of the protocol and its provisional application, and after the expiry of the current protocol on 17 January 2011.
This agreement is of mutual benefit to the EU and Seychelles: on the one hand, is makes a substantial contribution to the stabilisation of the European canned tuna market through the granting of fishing licences for tuna, and thus promotes the creation of 760 jobs in Europe; and on the other hand, thanks to the implementation of the financial contribution's sectoral support, Seychelles is increasing its stock management and fisheries monitoring capacity.
I believe that the document in question serves the interests of both parties, so I recommend that it be adopted.
The new protocol is in keeping with the aims of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement which seeks to strengthen cooperation between the EU and Seychelles, and to promote a framework for partnership to facilitate the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the Seychelles' fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
The new protocol covers a period of three years from adoption of the Council decision on the signing and provisional application of the protocol, and after expiry of the current protocol on 17 January 2011.
For these reasons, and in order that the cooperation between the EU and the Republic of Seychelles may be strengthened for development, responsible exploitation and responsible fishing, I hereby express my vote in favour.
in writing. - Against.
The Protocol covers a period of three years from the adoption of the Council decision on the signing of the Protocol and its provisional application, and the expiry of the current Protocol on 17 January 2011.
The new Protocol has been applied provisionally since 17 January 2011 to ensure that EU vessels could continue fishing.
I believe that this Partnership Agreement is mutually advantageous for the fisheries of both the European Union and Seychelles.
The old agreement has already generated numerous jobs both for the population of Seychelles and in Europe, where it has induced jobs in areas related to the sector.
Moreover, suspension clauses are included in this agreement, should either one of the parties ascertain a breach of human rights.
However, the choice made today strengthens the cooperation between the two parties, and promotes a partnership capable of developing sustainable fishing and of exploiting the resources of Seychelles in a balanced way.
Partnership agreements in the fishing sector should not merely be a legal way of granting European vessels access to the fishery resources of third countries.
They should also serve to promote the sustainable exploitation of maritime resources.
The work of the Seychelles Fishing Authority, which has an effective vessel monitoring system, is of great significance for this cooperation.
European vessels entitled to fish in Seychelles' waters will take on board observers appointed by the Seychelles authorities, and during a trip each tuna seiner will take on board at least two Seychelles seamen, in agreement with the shipowner, from the names on a list submitted by the competent authority of Seychelles.
The arrangements concern not only purely pragmatic matters, but also the multiannual sectoral programme, which provides for cooperation in terms of responsible fishing, sustainable fisheries and joint scientific research.
The most important effect of the agreement is the creation of 230 crew jobs for Seychelles population, 2 900 jobs in Seychelles and 760 induced jobs in Europe in areas related to the sector, which will without doubt contribute to economic improvement in the sector.
I am voting for this report, given that the current Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and São Tomé and Príncipe has been in force since 2006 and that the protocol for this agreement expired on 31 May 2011.
The protocol provides for a Union contribution to São Tomé and Príncipe of EUR 682 500 per year, of which EUR 227 500 will go towards support for São Tomé and Príncipe's fisheries policy, which I believe to be appropriate.
I also welcome the fact that the new protocol includes a suspension clause in case of a breach of human rights.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted in favour of this agreement because it fulfils the objective of maintaining the activities of the EU fishing fleet in collaboration with third countries with the aim of strengthening sustainable fishing whilst respecting the environment and social and economic aspects.
São Tomé will receive EUR 682 500 annually of which EUR 227 500 will be to support its sectoral fisheries policy.
I am voting in favour of this draft European Parliament legislative resolution on the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe.
The draft is aimed at consolidating the role of the EU in tuna fisheries in the Atlantic Ocean through legal regulation of the activity of the EU's fleet.
The conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements certainly has the aim of conserving and safeguarding the activities of the European fishing fleet.
The agreement, which should be supported, anticipates that EU vessels, of which there will be 40 in the geographical area, will take at least 20% of their crew members from São Tomé and Príncipe or from other ACP countries (African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States), and also provides the opportunity for an observer designated by the fisheries ministry of São Tomé and Príncipe to be on board.
I welcome the renewal of the protocol to the EU-São Tomé and Príncipe Fisheries Partnership Agreement (FPA), as it benefits the fisheries interests of both the EU and São Tomé and Príncipe.
The EU-São Tomé and Príncipe FPA can help to support the viability of the EU's tuna fleet in the Atlantic Ocean, offering the vessels and the EU areas dependent on them a stable medium-term legal framework and contributing to maintaining continuity in the fishing zones covered by agreements in the Gulf of Guinea.
in writing. - (SV) We voted against these fisheries agreements, as there is no ceiling on the fishing quotas and because studies indicate that fish stocks in the world's oceans are declining.
In several of the countries concerned there is widespread corruption, with the effect that the money from the agreements does not benefit the local population.
These evaluations were declared classified by the Commission and we believe that they must be made available to the European Parliament as soon as possible.
I voted in favour of the report on the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, since it provides for the provisional application of a new protocol so that the activity of European ships will not be suspended.
I approve of the fact that the new protocol includes a suspension clause in case of a breach of human rights.
The draft Council decision relates to the conclusion of a new protocol on the Fisheries Partnership Agreement (FPA) between the EU and the Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe.
The new protocol is seen as beneficial to both parties, and it can enhance the stability of the European tuna sector in particular.
I hope that the people of São Tomé and Príncipe, with which Portugal shares its history and language, will receive tangible benefits as a result of the fair application of the FPA, and that they can diversify their activities and see real progress and development.
I hope that the joint committee will meet more regularly so that both parties can monitor the application of the agreement at close hand.
Lastly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work that he has carried out.
In 2007 the Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 894/2007 on the conclusion of a Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, which included a protocol setting out the fishing conditions and the respective financial contributions, which expired on 31 May 2010.
Aware of the importance of renewing this agreement and following the mandate conferred upon it by the Council, the Commission has negotiated a new protocol, which was concluded on 15 July 2010.
This fisheries protocol ensures fishing opportunities off São Tomé and Príncipe for various fleets from Member States until 12 May 2014.
Given the current crisis in the sector, we believe that it is important that the fees payable by owners should not be changed in relation to the previous agreement, but should remain at EUR 35, despite the fact that there has been a significant increase in catches per tonne: 25 tonnes for tuna seiners and 10 tonnes for long-liners.
However, according to an evaluation carried out while the previous agreement was in force, average annual catches in tonnes were lower than the reference tonnage.
According to this evaluation, and in line with the trends of recent years, there has been a reduction in the reference tonnage.
It was also found that there was a lower take-up of fishing opportunities by long-liners, which led to a reduction in this segment in the current report.
As with other cases, there remain concerns about the effectiveness of the development cooperation objectives... (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) This fisheries protocol ensures fishing opportunities off São Tomé and Príncipe for various fleets from Member States until 12 May 2014.
We welcome the fact that the fees payable by owners should not be changed in relation to the previous agreement, but should remain at EUR 35, despite the fact that there has been a significant increase in reference catches.
However, according to an evaluation carried out while the previous agreement was in force, average annual catches in tonnes were lower than the reference tonnage.
According to this evaluation, and in line with the trends of recent years, there has been a reduction in the reference tonnage.
It was also found that there was a lower take-up of fishing opportunities by long-liners, which led to a reduction in this segment in the current report.
In this context, in July 2007, the European Council adopted a regulation on the conclusion of a Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe and the European Community.
The fisheries agreement with São Tomé and Príncipe responds not only to the needs of the European fleet, but may also contribute to supporting a viable EU tuna fishing sector in the Atlantic Ocean.
The proposal essentially serves the interests of both parties, and it is therefore right to approve it.
in writing. - (LT) The ex-ante evaluation concluded that, insofar as it corresponds to the requirements of the European fleets, the fisheries agreement with São Tomé and Príncipe can enhance the visibility of the EU's tuna fleet in the Atlantic, offering the vessels and the EU areas dependent on them, in the medium term, a stable framework and contributing to continuity in the fishing zones of the Gulf of Guinea.
The evaluation also concludes that more than 50% of the EU's financial contribution has been allocated to the administrative budget for the country's fisheries sector: this is in line with the agreement taken on by the national authorities under the old protocol.
I welcomed this document, because it is clear from the evaluations submitted that this proposal corresponds to the basic interests of both parties.
We support the renewal of the exclusion clause which goes into greater detail both in the clauses concerning suspension and revision of payment of financial compensation, and in those concerning suspension of implementation of the protocol in certain circumstances.
We therefore believe that the Commission should forward to the European Parliament the conclusions of the meetings and activities of the Joint Committee, together with the sectoral fisheries programme referred to in the protocol and the results of the relevant annual evaluations.
Finally, the Commission and the Council should, in the context of their respective competences, keep Parliament informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol and its eventual renewal.
in writing. - The negotiation and signing of fisheries agreements is in line with the EU's general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet, including the open-sea fleet, as also with the development of relations with third countries in a spirit of partnership and cooperation, with a view to reinforcing sustainable fishing outside Union waters while taking due account of environmental, social and economic factors.
In this context, on 23 July 2007 the European Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 894/2007 on the conclusion of a Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Principe and the European Community.
The new protocol was signed on 13 May 2011 and the request for consent was forwarded to Parliament by the Council on the same day.
EU vessels will still have the opportunity to fish in the fishing zones of the Gulf of Guinea.
This will have a positive impact on the visibility of the EU's tuna fleet in the Atlantic and will increase competitiveness.
It should be noted that the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe is a least developed country and also qualifies as a highly indebted country.
Under the provisions of the agreement, greater financial assistance will be allocated to this country's sectoral fisheries policy, which will create favourable conditions for the development of this sector.
Given the country's particularly difficult position, thanks to this agreement we can at least make a minimum contribution to the country's economic well-being, promote the creation of new jobs, environmental and social sustainability, and fish stock preservation and restoration.
Fisheries partnership agreements have the aim of conserving and safeguarding activities in the EU's fisheries and developing relations with third countries with a view to reinforcing sustainable exploitation of resources outside Union waters.
I have voted in favour of the Council's recommendation for Parliament to support the conclusion of the agreement in question.
The negotiation and signing of fisheries partnership agreements is in line with the EU's general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet, particularly the long-distance fleet, so the conclusion of this document is crucial to pursuing the foreign policy objectives of the common fisheries policy.
In the interests of both parties, in its recommendation Parliament has pointed out certain aspects of institutional communication that should be improved, namely that the Commission should send Parliament the conclusions of the meetings and proceedings of the Joint Committee provided for in the agreement, the multiannual sectoral programme referred to in the protocol and also the results of the annual evaluations.
Parliament also requests a full report on the implementation of the agreement and asks that its Members be kept informed during future renegotiation of the agreement so that they can have a positive bearing on the process of negotiation.
This proposal refers to the conclusion of a new protocol to the Partnership Agreement between the EU and São Tomé and Príncipe.
The main objective here is to define the fishing opportunities on offer to the EU fleet on the basis of available surplus, as well as to determine the amount of financial contribution to be made separately for access rights and to support the sector.
For these reasons and in order to consolidate the sustainability of the tuna sector in the EU, I have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - The negotiation and signing of fisheries agreements is in line with the EU's general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet, including the open-sea fleet, as also with the development of relations with third countries in a spirit of partnership and cooperation, with a view to reinforcing sustainable fishing outside Union waters while taking due account of environmental, social and economic factors.
In this context, on 23 July 2007 the European Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 894/2007 on the conclusion of a Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Principe and the European Community(1).
I voted in favour of this recommendation because I feel it corresponds to the best interests of both parties.
This Partnership Agreement can surely enhance the visibility of the EU's tuna fleet in the Atlantic, offering the vessels and the EU areas dependent on them a stable legal framework in the medium-term and contributing to continuity in the fishing zones covered by agreements in the Gulf of Guinea.
It is, however, desirable that the Joint Committee reconvene more frequently in future, and that representatives of the European Parliament be permitted to participate at meetings as observers.
The negotiation and conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements is in line with the EU's general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet.
I am voting for the adoption of the protocol on the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the EU and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe as this relates to the development of relations with a third country in a spirit of partnership and cooperation, with a view to reinforcing sustainable fishing outside Union waters while taking due account of environmental, social and economic factors.
I have voted in favour of the agreement as it is intended to ensure that trade takes place with a high level of customs security and that a set of standards ever closer to the EU acquis is applied.
It is therefore fundamental that the EU and the Principality itself define a framework of cooperation in the matter of customs security.
Given that the safeguarding of border security has always constituted a key aspect of the Lega Nord's political ideology, I can only express my approval of this measure.
I voted in favour of the report on the Protocol extending to customs security measures the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Economic Community and the Principality of Andorra, since it encourages trade between both parties while ensuring a high level of customs security and consistency between the agreement and the EU acquis.
This proposal relates to amendments to the Community Customs Code and its implementing rules, concerning customs security measures for goods that are exported to or imported from non-EU countries.
I hope that trade relations between the EU and Andorra will prove fruitful and that the proposal will make a significant contribution to this objective.
Lastly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work that he has carried out.
This protocol is aimed at extending the customs security measures of the established agreement between the EU and the Principality of Andorra.
As such, the agreement ensures that bilateral trade between both parties runs smoothly and with a high level of customs security.
It also provides for the requirement of prior declaration of goods to be abolished, on condition that the EU and Andorra guarantee an equivalent level of security as provided for in the relevant acquis in their respective territories.
However, despite our vote in favour, we believe that the interests of the movement of capital should not be promoted at the expense of safeguarding the rights of people and workers.
This protocol is aimed at extending the customs security measures of the established agreement between the EU and the Principality of Andorra.
The agreement aims to ensure that bilateral trade between both parties runs smoothly and with a high level of customs security.
It also provides for the requirement of prior declaration of goods to be abolished, on condition that the EU and Andorra guarantee an equivalent level of security as provided for in the relevant acquis in their respective territories.
in writing. - (SK) The Council decision submitted to the European Parliament within the framework of the consent procedure represents a legal instrument for the conclusion of a Protocol between the European Union and the Principality of Andorra, extending the scope of the agreement to customs security measures.
The agreement has served as the basis for the customs union between the two parties.
We should therefore carry out an analysis in the near future of the possibilities and modalities of its possible progressive integration into the internal market.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because the proposal is related to the amendments to the Community Customs Code and its Implementing Rules, concerning customs security measures for goods that are exported to or imported from non-EU countries.
We believe that the conclusion of this protocol between the European Union and the Principality of Andorra, which extends customs security measures, will ensure that trade between both parties develops smoothly within a high level of customs security and will provide a set of rules to ensure that the Agreement and the EU acquis remain in alignment.
This will be necessary to ensure that trade runs smoothly between the two parties, while maintaining a high level of security.
in writing. - (LT) Relations between the EU and the Principality of Andorra must continue to be extended effectively and consistently.
This would be to the mutual benefit of citizens and businesses in the EU and Andorra.
It should be noted that the protocol establishes a special regime between the EU and Andorra to help ensure that trade runs smoothly between the two parties while maintaining a high level of security.
in writing. - Promoting mutually-secure borders with neighbouring countries to the EU is necessary to maintain the sovereignty of our Union, to develop mutual cooperation.
I voted for this protocol because it will encourage greater information exchanges with Andorra on security-related risk management and controls, as well as the standardisation of EU customs security measures, and will encourage the safe movement of goods between Andorra and other EU countries.
Increasing bilateral trade between Andorra and the EU in a more secure, standardised environment will benefit Europe as a whole.
The protocol intends precisely to strengthen customs security measures in respect of goods imported from and exported to non-member countries.
The conclusion of this new agreement is another step towards greater cooperation between the Principality of Andorra and the EU.
As mentioned by the rapporteur, I would stress the need for the Commission and the Principality of Andorra to engage in further talks in order to take into account and if necessary to adapt bilateral agreements to the ongoing implementation of the Modernised Customs Code, which should be completed within the EU within two years.
With regard to the conclusion of the Protocol between the European Union and the Principality of Andorra extending to customs security measures the Agreement, which has until now been in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Economic Community and the Principality of Andorra and which was concluded on 28 June 1990.
The present arrangement concerning customs security measures will be added to the 1990 Agreement under the form of a new Title IIA and, unlike the customs union, will apply to agricultural products.
Taking into account the changes in the relevant EU customs acquis, the proposal establishes a special regime between the EU and Andorra to ensure that trade runs smoothly between the two parties while maintaining a high level of security.
For these reasons, and in order to intensify trade between the EU and the Principality of Andorra, I am voting in favour of the new customs security measures.
The Council Decision referral for the European Parliament for consent procedure constitutes the legal instrument for the conclusion of the Protocol between the European Union and the Principality of Andorra extending to customs security measures the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Economic Community and the Principality of Andorra concluded on 28 June 1990.
The present arrangement concerning customs security measures will be added to the 1990 Agreement under the form of a new Title IIA and, unlike the customs union, will apply to agricultural products (Article 12b(2) of the Protocol).
in writing. - (DE) A customs union has existed between the Principality of Andorra and the European Union since 1990 on the basis of an Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters.
The current amendment proposes that the Joint Committee should define measures for implementing customs security provisions.
The expansion of the internal market standard will bring benefits to the citizens and businesses of both the EU and Andorra alike.
I am voting for this proposal so that Parliament will approve the conclusion of the Agreement.
European and Canadian companies will be able to save millions of euro a year thanks to shorter and simpler, hence less costly, product-approval procedures and mutual acceptance of certification findings.
Furthermore, the Agreement constitutes a net benefit for the EU given that it will establish mutual acceptance of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all Member States.
The proposed Agreement on civil aviation safety, as with the Agreement with the US, will significantly improve cooperation between the Union and Canada and will govern this matter in all the Member States of the European Union.
The Agreement allows the certification system to be harmonised.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted in favour because this Agreement will benefit European and Canadian companies, airlines and passengers.
I voted in favour of Mrs Ţicău's report as Canada should be seen as a priority partner for agreements of this kind, given that both Europe and Canada have world-leading aircraft manufacturers.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because I believe that a bilateral Agreement on civil aviation safety between the EU and Canada, which is its aim, will bring benefits for Europeans by facilitating trade between both parties.
By approximating the two sets of requirements and regulatory processes, the importing authority will be able to issue its own certificate on the aeronautical product, part or appliance without duplicating all the assessments done by the exporting authority.
The mutual acceptance of certification findings will ensure shorter and simpler, hence less costly, product-approval procedures, while it will also bring huge economic benefits for both European and Canadian companies.
I am voting for this Agreement as I believe that, besides the economic benefits it brings, it will also establish mutual acceptance of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all Member States.
It is therefore based on mutual trust of the systems in force, whether in the EU or in Canada, and provides for obligations and methods of cooperation so that the importing authority can issue its own certificate on the aeronautical product, part or appliance without duplicating all the assessments done by the exporting authority.
It thus represents a massive step forward for markets that are more competitive but also safer, since greater rapprochement and cooperation in matters of certification, inspections and enforcement should enable the parties to ensure a higher level of security for passengers and cargo flights.
I voted in favour of Mrs Ţicău's report, which gives the European Parliament's green light for applying an Agreement between the European Community and Canada on civil aviation safety.
This simplification is good news for a market that is worth close to EUR 50 billion in trade between the two regions.
I voted in favour of this recommendation because I approve of the conclusion of an agreement which, on the one hand, will benefit European and Canadian companies and airlines by saving millions of euro, thanks to shorter and simpler certification procedures, and, on the other hand, will ensure a higher level of security for passengers.
Ensuring aviation safety and harmonised rules for the various market players is the main objective of this Agreement between the European Community and Canada on civil aviation safety, henceforth 'the Agreement'.
Economic and political relations between the European Union and Canada date back a long time, and have given rise to several bilateral agreements in these areas.
On 6 May 2009, an Agreement on civil aviation safety was concluded between the EU - then the European Community - and Canada, similar to that with the US, aimed at strengthening cooperation between the two parties and reducing duplication of checks for all controls and tests.
I voted in favour of this recommendation and welcome the strengthening of relations between the two parties.
This Agreement will make both the Canadian and the European markets safer and more competitive, as it represents an important step forward in terms of establishing international standards for civil aviation safety.
The Agreement that is the subject of this report concerns certain safety aspects of civil aviation and will replace the six existing bilateral agreements between the Member States and Canada, which include product certification.
As the rapporteur clearly states, the intention of creating a full Open Aviation Area between these two countries, an issue with which we have raised significant concerns, does not fall within the scope of this Agreement, but should be the subject of a separate recommendation.
The main objectives of the Agreement are to minimise the duplication of assessments, tests and controls, unless these reflect significant regulatory differences, and to enable both the EU and Canada to rely on each other's certification systems.
Among other aspects, this will be achieved through progressive approximation of both parties' sets of requirements and regulatory processes.
This Agreement should generate savings for European and Canadian aviation companies thanks to shorter and simpler, and hence less costly, product-approval procedures and the mutual acceptance of certification findings.
The main objective of the Agreement is to minimise the duplication of assessments, tests and controls, unless these reflect significant regulatory differences, and to enable both the EU and Canada to rely on each other's certification systems.
This Agreement should generate savings for European and Canadian aviation companies thanks to shorter and simpler, and hence less costly, product-approval procedures and the mutual acceptance of certification findings.
According to the rapporteur, the Agreement could also increase safety, as regulators and enforcement authorities are moving closer to cooperation in all matters of certification, inspections and enforcement, in order to ensure the highest level of safety for passengers and cargo flights.
in writing. - (SK) The recommendation applies to the Safety Agreement signed on behalf of the European Community in May 2009.
The agreement thus generally follows the structure of the existing bilateral agreements on civil aviation safety concluded between the Member States and Canada.
in writing. - (IT) The recommendation in question concerns the Agreement of 6 May 2009 on civil aviation safety.
Given the climate of collaboration within the Agreement, I can confirm my vote in favour.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because the key objectives set out in the negotiating directives were to minimise the duplication of assessments, tests and controls (unless these reflected significant regulatory differences) and to enable both the EU and Canada to rely on each other's certification systems.
This would be achieved by progressive approximation of the two sets of requirements and regulatory processes, by regular consultations between the parties to verify the continued fitness and ability of the regulatory bodies involved in the implementation of the Agreement, and by establishing a joint committee which would propose solutions to any problem arising from its implementation.
To maintain confidence in each other's systems, the agreement foresees joint inspections, investigations, exchange of safety data (aircraft inspections and accident-related information) and increased regulatory cooperation and consultation at a technical level to solve matters before they can become disputes.
It provides for the creation of a joint committee and sub-committees in areas such as certification of airworthiness and maintenance.
There are also strong safeguard measures that would ultimately allow either side to suspend acceptance of the finding of the other competent authority or to terminate the Agreement in whole or in part.
Nevertheless the entire system of consultations, committees and sub-committees is intended to ensure that any differences are resolved well before reaching this stage.
The 2009 Agreement on civil aviation safety is a first step towards establishing a full Open Aviation Area between the EU and Canada.
In order to maintain confidence in each other's systems, the Agreement foresees joint inspections, exchange of safety data, increased regulatory cooperation and consultation at a technical level to solve matters before they can become 'disputes'.
The Agreement will not only make the Canadian and European markets more competitive, it will also reinforce global security.
Finally, we feel that this Agreement is important in that it establishes international standards for civil aviation safety and should serve as a starting point for future negotiations with other significant producers of aircraft.
The Agreement represents an important step forward in terms of establishing international standards for civil aviation safety and should serve as a starting point for future negotiations with other significant producers of aircraft and equipment.
in writing. - (DE) The Agreement between the EU and Canada on civil aviation safety, which is a supplement to the Air Transport Agreement with Canada, is intended to remove technical trade barriers.
In essence, the aim is to minimise duplicated assessments, tests and controls insofar as possible and to enable uniform certification.
The Agreement is to be supported provided the product-approval procedures become shorter and simpler without compromising on safety standards.
These will become redundant when the Agreement on civil aviation safety between the EU and Canada comes into force.
The Agreement is to be supported provided the product approval procedures become shorter and simpler without compromising on safety standards.
in writing. - (LT) An Agreement on civil aviation safety between the European Community and Canada has undoubted benefits for both parties.
In order to achieve effective cooperation in the area of aviation safety, it is crucial to ensure that the certification systems meet the requirements of both parties.
This Agreement will facilitate improved cooperation between the regulatory bodies of both parties in all areas of certification, inspections, enforcement and consultation.
I voted in favour of the conclusion of the Agreement on civil aviation safety between the European Community and Canada because I feel it presents a clear advantage for the European Union in so much as it establishes mutual recognition of documentation supplied in all sectors relevant to aviation for all the Member States.
I voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the European Community and Canada on civil aviation safety.
These measures may result in savings of millions of euro a year for European and Canadian companies thanks to shorter and simpler, and hence less costly, product-approval procedures.
Mutual acceptance of certification findings constitutes a massive benefit for the EU, given that it will establish mutual acceptance of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all Member States.
This would be achieved by progressive approximation of the two sets of requirements and regulatory processes, by regular consultations between the parties to verify the continued fitness and ability of the regulatory bodies involved in the implementation of the Agreement, and by establishing a joint committee which would propose solutions to any problem arising from its implementation.
The Agreement broadly follows the structure of the existing Bilateral Aviation Safety Agreements (BASA) between the Member States and Canada.
Hence it places obligations and provides methods of cooperation so as to enable the importing authority to issue its own certificate on aeronautical products, parts or appliances without duplicating all the assessments carried out by the exporting authority.
So that the Canadian and European markets will become more competitive and more secure, and so that product-approval procedures will become shorter and simpler, I am voting in favour of the proposal in question. , in writing. - (CS) I have no major reservations about the EU-Canada Agreement on civil aviation safety.
The lukewarm attitude of Commissioner Malmström is the reason why the situation remains unresolved after two years, and it has contributed to the deterioration in relations between the Czech Republic and Canada.
This recommendation deals with the Safety Agreement that was signed on behalf of the (then) European Community on 6 May 2009.
The EU-Canada Air Transport Agreement, signed on 17-18 December 2009 and which will finally establish a full Open Aviation Area between the EU and Canada, will be the subject of a separate recommendation.
The combined exports of civil aviation technology exceed €50 billion while European and Canadian overall trade in aircraft, spacecraft and parts was worth more than €49 billion in 2008.
This Agreement on civil aviation safety, concluded between the EU and Canada, follows the horizontal agreement already adopted by Parliament in March 2011.
The creation of an Open Aviation Area will bring economic benefits for both parties.
Greater simplification and reduction of administrative costs to European and Canadian companies will bring greater economic competitiveness and safety for passengers.
As a substitute member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I voted in favour of this report, but I would stress again that Parliament should take up its new responsibilities enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, and be kept informed at all stages of the process of negotiating international agreements.
in writing. - (DE) The Agreement is intended to minimise duplicated assessments, tests and controls by enabling both parties to use the certification system of the other.
This mutual trust in the system operated by the contracting party is based on an approximation of the requirements and regulatory processes, as well as regular consultations between the parties and the establishment of a joint committee.
Because of the shorter and more cost-effective product-approval procedures permitted, the companies working in that sector will save millions each year and will be able to increase their competitiveness.
This report notes that sound financial discipline and transparency in the allocation of funds are key preconditions for achieving cohesion policy's overall objectives, contributing towards increasing accountability as regards strategic objectives.
I would also stress the need for more synergies with other policy instruments.
Cohesion policy has greater potential today than ever before, and this should not be underestimated; it is capable of improving less-developed regions characterised by permanent geographical or natural disadvantages.
To leave unused or squander unnecessarily the resources available would be a terrible shame, and it is therefore right to adopt with urgency a results-oriented approach through the establishment of clear and measurable targets and outcome indicators.
The first step, which should apply for all Community resources, is to simplify procedures and make allocation of funds more flexible by reducing bureaucratic barriers, the excessive administrative costs and other obstacles that hamper policy goals regarding employment and the fight against poverty.
Let us not forget that cohesion policy is a long-term mechanism; therefore, beginning to work on solid ground, establishing precise goals and allocating clear competences to each level of governance are factors of progress which will produce visible results only in the second part of the programming period.
This is a target which all Member States have established as part of the European integration process.
However, the whole procedure for implementing this policy needs to be simplified in order to achieve this desired goal.
The disparities between European regions have evolved over long periods of time.
I support the report's proposal that, in order to reduce these inequalities and streamline the European integration process for all Member States, we need to reduce the period required for funding approval and cut red tape and all the rules and procedures along with it, which needlessly hinder rather than help the European Union's cohesion policy.
The implementation report drawn up by my colleague Mr Mikolášik presents an excellent track record of what cohesion policy has achieved over the 2007-2013 financial period.
It shows that this policy is useful, since its contribution to achieving the objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion within the European Union is undeniable.
Finally, I should like to emphasise that the adoption of this report comes at an ideal time, for it has enriched the debate on the future of cohesion policy (2014-2020).
The vote on the 'cohesion' package sends a clear message concerning our desire to have a cohesion policy that shows solidarity, and is effective and ambitious, as it remains one of the most important European policies.
Indeed, at a time when the global crisis has worsened the socio-economic situation of many regions, and when we are already debating future cohesion policy, it was crucial for the European Parliament to stress its opposition to any attempt to nationalise cohesion policy or make it more sector-specific.
In this report in particular, which sought to assess the implementation of the programmes, the European Parliament drew up an assessment and highlighted the successes, difficulties and possible solutions.
This will be of great help for the months to come, when the European Union will introduce a new cohesion policy from 2013 that will have to remedy the shortcomings of the current policy.
I therefore voted for this report, as I did for the other three, to reiterate my commitment to this fundamental policy, whilst at the same time calling for certain changes that have become necessary for dealing with new challenges.
The issue of the architecture of the future cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 will be at the heart of the political debate in the coming years.
In the context of negotiations for the future programming period, I believe that a strong and well-financed EU regional policy is an essential condition for achieving social, economic and territorial cohesion in the EU.
Furthermore, in order to avoid scenarios whereby funds remain unused because of excessively complicated regulations and procedures, it is essential that management and implementation of cohesion policy be simplified.
This motion for a European Parliament resolution on the Report 2010 on the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013 encompasses points which are contrary to the principles of our political stance, and it therefore cannot be supported.
In particular, the motion calls for an improvement and facilitation of services to the Roma community, which is defined by the motion as a 'marginalised' community.
The Lega Nord has always stressed that the Roma minority cannot be considered to be the victim of any kind of social 'marginalisation' in that it is this minority itself which refuses to integrate itself into our society.
Hence my vote against it.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because cohesion policy continues to prove its relevance as it greatly contributes to the improvement of the socio-economic environment.
Furthermore, cohesion policy is aimed at reducing disparities in the levels of development of European regions, facilitates the pursuit of modernisation and sustainable growth, and demonstrates European solidarity.
As such, it has proved to be essential to the progress of European integration while establishing synergies between various European policies.
Some of these are consequences of the last two enlargements, while others have been accentuated by the direct effects of the global financial and economic crisis.
The Member States have embraced new requirements in a positive way and they are making progress in delivering cohesion policy objectives, as evidenced by facts and figures provided in national reports, though with a certain inherent heterogeneity at state and regional levels.
Bearing in mind that the European Social Fund (ESF) is a basic tool for combating poverty, social exclusion, unemployment, gender inequalities and social discrimination (against people with disabilities, migrants, older people, etc.), by getting people into jobs, the European Parliament calls on the Commission to strengthen the ESF's potential and its financial autonomy.
Cohesion policy constitutes one of the targets of the EU 2020 strategy and for this reason it is necessary to pay greater attention to the coordination of activities between the EU and the Member States which depend on this sector.
I, therefore, voted in favour of this document.
The economic crisis, as well as the reform made to the policy for the period 2007-2013, have caused activity in Europe to slow down.
in writing. - On the Pieper, Sanchez-Schmid, Stavrakakis, Vlasak and Mikolasik reports: Conservative MEPs have elected to reject these reports on the future direction of Cohesion policy, with the exception of the Vlasak report where we have abstained.
This is due to a number of fundamental reasons: it is our contention that at a time of ongoing fiscal consolidation across Member States, it is totally unacceptable that the EU's large Cohesion budget should remain untouched by these efforts.
Generally, these reports fail to meet Conservative concerns regarding the EU's management of Cohesion policy in any meaningful way.
Instead, new vehicles of bureaucracy such as the macro-regional entities are proposed, and the nation-state is once again undermined by a determined shift towards regionalism.
This age of austerity offers an opportunity for the EU to spend less on old and wasteful priorities.
These reports go in entirely the wrong direction.
in writing. - Dossiers that analyse the effectiveness with which EU legislation has been transposed within Member States are of crucial importance.
I echo the conclusions of the rapporteur, especially those that concern the importance of SMEs to European economies and the need to facilitate access to finance as well as the need for greater encouragement for SMEs to enhance innovation, thus increasing competitiveness.
For these reasons, amongst others, I have decided to vote in favour of this dossier.
In the context of the current crisis that the European Union is going through, the recently introduced cohesion policy is one of the effective ways to kick-start the EU's economy.
The Mikolášik report on the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013, which I supported, is in this respect a useful contribution for redefining the objectives of such a policy.
By calling for simplified, enhanced and transparent aid allocation within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, this report seeks to stimulate the European cohesion programmes in order to address administrative burdens, the latter being the reason why most allocated funds are currently being withheld.
I voted in favour of the report on the implementation of cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013, as I believe that it is necessary to adapt cohesion policy to the challenges that the European regions are facing, supporting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Cohesion policy remains one of the most important pillars of EU policy, as it is fundamental for realising the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
At a time when Europe is experiencing an unprecedented economic, financial and social crisis, which is particularly affecting certain regions that were already weaker, it is vital for the future that cohesion policy continue to play its fundamental role in balanced and sustainable development.
This document, for which the rapporteur is Mr Mikolášik, follows the Commission communication entitled 'Cohesion policy: Strategic Report 2010 on the implementation of the programmes 2007-2013'.
This is the first rigorous assessment of the implementation of the some 450 operational programmes adopted by the Commission.
EU cohesion policy is part of a European framework of solidarity that encompasses the 27 Member States and their 271 regions, and aims to end existing economic and social disparities within the EU.
This report is of even greater importance given the economic and financial crisis that Europe is experiencing, so it should be an instrument for reallocating and maximising cohesion funding.
I welcome the adoption of this report, for which I voted, not only because of the solutions it proposes, but also because of the structure that it suggests for future cohesion policy.
This report acknowledges the existing problems with cohesion policy, beginning with the delayed conclusion of negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and the legislative package, resulting in the belated implementation of the national strategies and operational programmes.
These factors are compounded by the inadequacy of the funds provided for the 2007-2013 period, particularly taking account of the enlargement of the EU, and the use of only 27.1% of available resources in the current period, as well as the continuation of national cofinancing and the administrative burden.
This situation lays bare some of the errors and weaknesses of cohesion policy which we have always denounced.
in writing. - (SK) The reports on implementation analyse the implementation of EU regulations in national law and their enforcement in the Member States.
In the case of cohesion policy, the legislative framework is made up of directly applicable regulations.
The Commission report entitled 'Cohesion policy: Strategic report 2010 on the implementation of the programmes 2007-2013' thus analyses whether Member States have duly applied the legislation, as well as the way in which Member States have understood the Community's strategic guidelines and managed them when implementing the national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes.
The Member States are making progress in achieving its goals, as confirmed by the facts and data mentioned in the national reports.
However, the fundamental preconditions for fulfilling the overall objectives of cohesion policy are, of course, proper financial discipline and transparency in the allocation of funds.
The submission of strategic reports may, as a new instrument, be of considerable benefit for increasing responsibility in the fulfilment of policy objectives.
Likewise, steps leading to the simplification of the management and implementation of cohesion policy are still highly desirable and justifiable in order to fulfil the aims of this policy and thus contribute to European solidarity.
I voted in favour, because despite the problems with using money from the Cohesion Fund, current cohesion policy should continue to be pursued consistently, in view of its long-term objective.
Cohesion of the Union means effective use of the potential of economically backward regions and growth by using the effect of scale throughout the Union.
Hence the concentration on investments in communications infrastructure, which will make it easier for the single market to function, and on ecology.
In the new financial perspective the funds must not be frittered away on sectoral projects.
There is also a need for an improvement in cohesion within Member States and for better use of financial resources earmarked for infrastructure investments related to climate change, such as hydrotechnical constructions.
Poor use is being made in Poland, for example, of money from the Cohesion Fund earmarked for public communications projects, such as railways, trams and the Internet.
The percentage of Union resources allocated to thermomodernisation is also too low, particularly in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
in writing. - (SV) The Swedish Conservatives do not share the enthusiasm expressed in the report for the use of the structural funds in cohesion policy.
This own-initiative report does not advocate the allocation of additional resources to the funds, and it also states that priority should be given to research and development in the appropriations.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because corrective measures need to be taken promptly to improve poor project performance in certain priority areas.
The document recommends carrying out an in-depth analysis of the implementation problems in areas with specific delays in project selection.
In this context it calls on Member States to step up efforts to improve project selection in areas where there are delays, and to accelerate implementation of all selected projects to avoid the risk of failing to achieve the agreed objectives.
The report underlines the fact that SMEs play an important innovative role in the economy, and it is therefore necessary to develop this sector inter alia through the implementation of the Small Business Act, facilitate SMEs' access to financing and operating capital, encourage SMEs to become involved in innovative projects, and strengthen their competitiveness and potential for greater employment.
I believe that the effective selection and implementation of projects in some areas is hampered by the lack of relevant preconditions such as simpler application procedures at national level, clear national priorities for certain areas of intervention, timely transposition of EU laws and consolidated institutional and administrative capacity, as well as by excessive red tape at national level.
The document therefore calls on Member States and regions to facilitate policy implementation by tackling these challenges, above all by adapting the legal framework in the field of state aid, public procurement and environmental rules, and pursuing institutional reforms.
Cohesion policy has always been an essential element of the European Economic Recovery Plan through which the role of Structural Funds becomes clear to everyone.
With small businesses specifically in mind, as these are understood to be agents of development within the territory, cohesion measures have been promoted with a view to supporting regional labour markets by reducing gender segregation and inequalities, to facilitating interinstitutional dialogue, and to improving infrastructure and services for disadvantaged microregions with high concentrations of socially marginalised groups.
These interventions, which are only some of many, are specific and necessary in order to maintain the equilibriums that are essential for the territories.
Implementation of cohesion policy from 2007-2013 deserves to have Parliament's attention for several important reasons, which are as follows: systematic growth of cohesion is strategically important for the future of the Union; the Cohesion Fund is an opportunity for the new Member States and for regions subject to particularly difficult conditions of development; reservations concerning implementation of policy have been expressed in recent years by the Committee on Budgetary Control because of the rate of error, which is too high.
The Mikolášik report is deserving of support.
This strategic reporting exercise represents a new feature of cohesion policy.
The progress made by the Member States can be considered reasonable, given the context of serious deterioration in the socio-economic situation due to the global crisis and to the reform made to the policy for the period 2007-2013.
The fundamental preconditions for achieving the overall objectives of cohesion policy are sound financial discipline and transparency in the allocation of funds.
in writing. - (LT) Cohesion policy is a guarantee for improving our socio-economic environment, which helps reduce disparities between the levels of development of the regions, and facilitates the pursuit of modernisation and sustainable growth.
It is an effective and efficient tool for responding to socio-economic challenges brought about by the financial crisis.
In order to reduce the disparities between the less developed and highly developed EU regions, the Member States must be encouraged to improve the absorption capacity of Structural and Cohesion Funds.
The Member States must participate more actively in the implementation of cohesion policy programmes.
In pursuing these objectives, it is important to ensure that projects are selected and properly implemented without any delays.
Moreover, the delay in investment in the rail sector is doing enormous damage to the implementation of the TEN-T network.
It should be noted that for small businesses the Structural Funds are a crucial tool for economic stimulus.
It is essential to use the opportunities offered by these funds to establish favourable operating conditions for SMEs, improving financing opportunities, and promoting participation in various innovative projects and cooperation at local and regional levels.
This is what emerges from the report on the Report 2010; therefore, in the hope that we will continue on this road, I am voting in favour of the report on the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013.
Moreover, the report formulates proposals and recommendations for greater transparency and flexibility in the allocation and use of European funds.
Cohesion policy is vital to an improved socio-economic environment in Europe and is a practical expression of solidarity between the Member States.
However, the report rightly highlights the belated completion of strategic and operational programmes, due to the difficult negotiating procedures; however, it also mentions - and this is an important point for Greece - that the EU needs to find ways of dealing with these delays when they arise due to scarce public resources available for cofinancing projects.
This can be achieved by submitting regular progress reports and by improving the efficacy of the public administration.
The Member States are making progress in delivering cohesion policy objectives, as evidenced by the national reports, although there is a certain inherent heterogeneity between states and regions.
Indeed, the full picture for the 2007-2013 programming period will be visible only in 2015, two years after the second strategic report, since certain countries have two more years to use all the allocated funding.
I voted in favour of this report, which, among other aspects, draws attention to the fact that effective selection and implementation of projects in some areas is hampered by factors which should be combated.
I would like to highlight the late conclusion of the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework and this policy's legislative package, resulting in belated completion of the national strategies and operational programmes, and in the scarcity of public resources available for cofinancing in Member States.
The report has been elaborated mainly on the basis of the following two documents: the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors entitled 'Cohesion Policy: Strategic Report 2010 on the implementation of the programmes 2007-2013', and the Commission Staff Working Document accompanying the Communication.
Core assessments have been made on the implementation of the programmes, while taking into account for the purposes of comparative analysis differences of several months, because such differences could influence the volume of allocations made to a particular sector.
Core assessments have similarly been made on the strategic reporting exercise, which provides timely evidence of the progress of implementation throughout the whole of Europe, offering a basis for high-level debate, peer review, policy learning and an incentive to improve the quality of performance, even if there are certain limitations in these reports.
Structural funding is of immense use in tackling challenges in these regions and we must guarantee it continues to operate effectively, delivering sustainable and inclusive growth.
This report commented on the delays in project selection for areas such as the rail sector, energy, the environment, the digital economy, social inclusion, governance and capacity building.
These are key issues for competitiveness and therefore a key issue for economic growth.
The EU must ensure excessive delays in respect of the allocation of funds are avoided.
Our formulation about the synergies among funds ("each fund needs its own rules", para 28) could be integrated as well as our call for increasing cross-financing (para 29) and strengthening partnership (para 33) and transparency (para 3).
We also have good wording on realigning programmes to sustainable development (para 35).
However, we could not avoid jubilation for the Lisbon earmarking (para 5 and 20) and a call for better financing TEN-T projects (para 12).
Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union establishes that the EU 'shall develop and pursue its actions leading to the strengthening of its economic, social and territorial cohesion', and it has therefore set Union funds for the 2007-2013 period at EUR 347 billion, which corresponds to 35.7% of the overall EU budget.
I am voting in favour of this report as it sets out an accurate analysis of the current state of Union funds by demonstrating the areas in which, up until now, EUR 93.4 million has been spent, suggests recommendations and areas for improvement, contributes to resolving the economic and financial crisis, and promotes best practices and mutual learning at regional level.
I would like to highlight the fact that the implementation of EU funds varies between the different Member States, and it is important for the EU to understand the difficulties that some countries have had in taking corrective action in order to actively contribute to the wider uptake of EU funds, in line with the Europe 2020 strategy.
Finally, I would also like to congratulate the Member States on their efforts in putting together the first national strategy report, actively contributing to greater transparency, flexibility, effectiveness and accountability for cohesion policy funds.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report on the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013 as cohesion policy is vital to achieving the Europe 2020 objectives, especially in the areas of employment and social matters.
I deplore the delays that there have been in the selection process for projects in strategic areas such as transport, certain energy and environmental investments, the digital economy, social inclusion, governance and reinforcement of administrative capacities.
Effective selection and implementation of projects in some areas are hampered by missing relevant preconditions such as simpler application procedures at national level, clear national priorities for certain areas of intervention, prompt transposition of EU laws, consolidated institutional and administrative capacities and excessive domestic red tape.
in writing. - (DE) The strategic report on the implementation of the operational programmes cofinanced under the auspices of cohesion policy is a new instrument that will be essential for transparency and that will help the public understand this complex issue in the future.
If used correctly, this instrument could play a significant role in helping to stop this.
I am voting for this report, as it examines the needs of urban areas, focusing mainly on two aspects: basic infrastructure, and smart investment in infrastructures and services based on technological advances.
I also agree with the call for attention to be given to strategic planning principles, and with the need for cross-financing that is more flexible between the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ESF).
European urban diversity must be supported primarily by a flexible mechanism for implementing cohesion policy and by coordinating and adapting urban development projects according to the development needs and strategic guidelines of each city individually.
To ensure that this is not an idle notion, I think that we must put our trust in the local authorities and elected representatives of those cities.
We should listen to what communities want, initiate any construction based on their list of priorities and have the belief that mayors know best what are or should be the priorities for their cities.
This is precisely why I firmly believe, along with the rapporteur, that the offer of EU funding must meet local demand and the integrated strategic planning principles at EU level.
For this reason the Commission should proceed with a territorial impact assessment of sectorial policies to enhance an effective EU Urban Agenda.
The report also underlines that one of the weaknesses of the Lisbon Strategy was the lack of well-functioning multi-level governance and the insufficient involvement of regional, local authorities and civil society in the design, implementation, communication and evaluation stages of the strategy.
I voted in favour of this report, for in it my colleague Mr Vlasák promotes an important role for urban areas and comes up with a clever compromise between local, national and European responsibilities.
While a large majority of the European population live in towns and while these towns are facing new challenges, the urban agenda within cohesion policy remained relatively unknown, disorderly and therefore inadequate.
Like many other cities, Marseille is facing many challenges, such as public transport, employment, housing and combating social exclusion, which the EU can help to meet, in particular through its cohesion policy.
This report focuses on three objectives that are: developing physical infrastructure; economic, social and environmental modernisation of towns; and 'smarter' urban development.
Thus, without forgetting rural areas, the report stresses the role urban areas play in European regions and points out that urban areas should not be 'forgotten' if we want balanced regional development.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because the main purpose of the enhanced Urban Agenda should be to serve the development and qualitative upgrading of the infrastructure and services in European cities.
The future measures must be closely connected with overall EU priorities in order to justify assistance allocated from the EU budget.
Europe's cities are its centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, yet they face a number of challenges.
Complex problems such as the trend towards suburbanisation, the concentration of deprivation and unemployment in urban neighbourhoods, and increasing congestion, require integrated answers in transport, housing, training and employment schemes, which must be tailored to local needs.
These challenges should be addressed by taking into account European regional and cohesion policies.
Furthermore, the European Commission should aim at the best possible harmonisation of rules for particular EU funds and programmes under which urban and local development projects are conducted, in order to minimise red tape and potential errors in implementation.
The Commission should prepare a study comparing the practice to date of individual Member States regarding integrated strategic planning and, on the basis of the outcome of the study, draw up specific EU guidelines for integrated urban development planning practice that promote efficient, legally regulated partnerships, including cross-border urban partnerships.
in writing. - This report concerns a number of issues related to the urban dimension of cohesion policy that the Committee on Regional Development has identified as being particularly challenging for the future cohesion policy.
I am in agreement with the rapporteur on such issues and have thus decided to vote in favour of this dossier.
It is important to set out a European urban policy, which should contribute to sustainable development in urban areas, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
The European Urban Agenda not only includes the urban dimension of EU policies, in particular cohesion policy, but also the intergovernmental strand of European-level efforts to coordinate the urban policies of the Member States, the latter being implemented through informal ministerial meetings.
It is crucial to strengthen the urban dimension of cohesion policy and to promote sustainable urban development, particularly by strengthening and developing instruments to implement the Leipzig Charter at all levels.
At the same time, the dynamism of urban areas should be stimulated through effective and efficient synergies between the various European financing instruments, especially as regards research and innovation.
It should therefore be ensured that urban areas in all the EU regions, as centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, can benefit from necessary and adequate support in order to address the enormous challenges they are facing, such as the trend towards suburbanisation, the concentration of poverty and unemployment, and rising levels of congestion and pollution, among others.
For this reason I am voting in favour of the proposal to increase the funds earmarked for urban development.
I also agree with the idea that new investments should not be made exclusively in the economy and in specific sectors; instead, I would argue for the necessary implementation of projects which are to a large extent aimed at social cohesion and integration of the parts.
However, I do regret that with regard to implementing the urban dimension, there is not a clearer signal in favour of a more widespread use of general subsidies for direct management by towns.
Furthermore, this report should have elaborated on opening up deprived neighbourhoods, the role of medium-sized towns in the urban agenda, as well as the battle for climate and social mixing in our towns.
By supporting the report on the European Urban Agenda and its Future in Cohesion Policy, I am advocating a new approach to urban policy based on close cooperation between operators at the various levels of decision-making: EU, national level, urban areas and peripheral urban areas.
One of the most important dimensions of cohesion policy is the aspect specifically geared towards cities, insofar as most of them are urban areas that implement cohesion policy, and in which many of the challenges to be tackled by the Europe 2020 strategy can be found.
These people generate 80% of gross domestic product (GDP) and consume about 70% of EU energy.
Large urban areas are also the main centres of innovation, knowledge and science, and are home to the majority of productive activities, which generate wealth and contribute to economic growth.
Furthermore, the greatest challenges in terms of the efficient management of infrastructure and transport are also found in urban areas, and these have a direct impact on environmental and energy policy.
EU cohesion policy is part of a European framework of solidarity encompassing the 27 Member States and their 271 regions, and aims to end existing economic and social disparity within the EU.
Despite the creation of the financial instruments developed by the Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB), such as the Joint European Resources for Micro to Medium Enterprises (Jeremie), Joint Assistance to Support Projects in European Regions (Jaspers) and Joint European Support for Sustainable Investment in City Areas (Jessica), and the other Structural Funds, the results have fallen short of expectations.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur's recommendations on the preparation of comprehensive and integrated financial planning so that the funds can be allocated to projects aimed at achieving the objectives set out in the Europe 2020 strategy, rather than to actions that merely consume these same funds.
Great emphasis is placed on strengthening the European Urban Agenda, on developing basic physical infrastructure and its contribution to the economic fabric, and on energy and environmental sustainability through investment based on technological progress, but people are sidelined.
Cities and their entire infrastructure are built by people.
People inhabit them and make their public education, health and transport services, their trade and industry, and their cultural activities work.
These people should be at the centre of any urban policy.
However, they are the ones largely being forgotten by EU policies.
From our point of view, an urban agenda should prioritise better distribution of the population in the territory of certain countries, particularly in Portugal, relieving the cities by valuing rural areas and properly remunerated farming; spreading productive activity across the country; valuing quality public services in rural and urban areas; combating unemployment; defending jobs with rights; valuing salaries and pensions; and combating poverty.
This report focuses on the European Urban Agenda and its Future in Cohesion Policy.
It places great emphasis upon cities, but it forgets a fundamental component of these cities: the people.
The report is clearly contradictory.
It advocates strengthening the European Urban Agenda, developing basic physical infrastructure and its contribution to the economic fabric, and energy and environmental sustainability through investment based on technological progress, but it puts people second.
However, the fact is that cities and their entire infrastructure are built by people.
These people should therefore be at the heart of any urban policy.
However, they are the ones largely being forgotten by EU policies.
From our point of view, an urban agenda should prioritise better distribution of the population in the territory of certain countries, particularly in Portugal, relieving the cities by valuing rural areas and properly remunerated farming; spreading productive activity across the country; valuing quality public services in rural and urban areas; combating unemployment; defending jobs with rights; valuing salaries and pensions; and combating poverty.
in writing. - (SK) The report deals with several aspects of the urban dimension of cohesion policy, which, according to the Committee on Regional Development, are key or problematic in terms of the future of cohesion policy, which should become a fully-fledged and effective policy focussing on the cities of the EU.
Territorial diversity and polycentric development are characteristic in Europe, and there are few large cities in the relatively dense urban network.
A stronger urban agenda requires the development and qualitative modernisation of infrastructure and services in Europe's cities.
It is desirable for future actions to be closely linked to overall EU priorities.
Although European cities fulfil the role of centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, they face many problems, and solving these problems requires an individual approach taking account of local needs.
European regional policy and cohesion policy deal with precisely this issue.
in writing. - I will vote in favour of this report because it highlights the importance of moving beyond the current greenhouse gas emissions target of 20% and increasing this to 30% in order to work towards the ambitious 2 degree Celsius objective.
The EU ETS must however remain flexible when dealing with the economic crisis by taking financial measures which promote cost-effective GHG reduction in Europe.
It has become increasingly clear that delaying action is unsustainable and will not only increase the costs of reducing emissions but will also result in the EU losing its pioneering role in green research.
International cooperation in this major climatic challenge will ensure that European industry is able to remain competitive and is never placed at an economic disadvantage.
The EU, whose global emissions are just over 10%, cannot combat climate change alone; this is a global problem which requires global action.
However, the urban dimension has up until now received insufficient recognition.
For this reason it is important that Parliament should propose to enhance the European Urban Agenda within the framework of EU policies, reinforcing the contribution of cohesion policy to urban development and encouraging greater involvement on the part of local political stakeholders.
It is necessary to direct the urban dimension of political cohesion towards supporting the development of basic physical infrastructure, the modernisation of economic, social and environmental characteristics of cities, urban regeneration and the promotion of social innovation in disadvantaged neighbourhoods.
All this requires direct participation on the part of local authorities and civil society, and the involvement of cities' political representatives in strategic planning and in defining and negotiating partnership contracts.
Let us monitor closely the Commission's commitment to welcoming the important proposals of this report, in the belief that a full appreciation of the central role of the urban dimension in EU politics constitutes an indispensable condition for its success.
in writing. - (SV) The Swedish Conservatives do not share the view expressed in the report on a number of points.
However, the report does not advocate the provision of additional funds by the EU, and the role of urban areas as centres for growth is also mentioned.
The principle of subsidiarity means that urban policy falls within the competence of the Member States.
The development of our territories, however, cannot be considered complete unless we genuinely take the urban dimension into account at European level.
Indeed, cities play a driving role in achieving our objectives in relation to employment, training and energy efficiency.
This report successfully demonstrates the added value of European policies, particularly cohesion policy, when it comes to development and the modernisation of infrastructure and services in European cities.
I agree with the opinion that the European Commission should aim at the best possible harmonisation of rules for particular EU funds and programmes under which urban and local development projects are eligible for cofinancing, in order to minimise red tape and potential errors in implementation.
I voted in favour of this report, which represents an important contribution to the European added value of cross-financing between the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ESF) in terms of increased flexibility for social inclusion projects and integrated urban development programmes.
The presence of more flexible conditions for cross-financing could, in my opinion, optimise the use of the plans or strategies in question, exploiting the complementary synergies of these funds in an effective and efficient way.
Often, and especially in urban areas which stand out thanks to problems of social exclusion or environmental pollution, ESF resources could be used to support local projects to prevent exclusion that are carried out in a coordinated and united way by public authorities and private businesses acting as leaders to a network of cities.
I hope that today's vote encourages better harmonisation of rules for particular EU funds and programmes under which urban and local development projects are eligible for cofinancing in order to minimise red tape and potential errors in implementation as far as possible.
We believe that the main objective of the European Urban Agenda is to serve the development and qualitative updating of the infrastructure and services in European cities.
For this reason, it is crucial that cities be able to have their say, and that they receive due attention at EU level.
We also believe that cities should be offered sufficient flexibility so as to be able to use funds for their own priorities.
Finally, we believe that future cohesion policy should become a fully-valued and effective policy for EU cities.
in writing. - (DE) Urban areas are one of the key factors in European development.
They grow quickly and concentrate economic strength, industry and, above all, a very large number of people, also giving rise to a large number of social and infrastructural issues.
Thus, cities play a particularly important role in the European Union's cohesion policy.
This point is given due attention in the report, which is why I voted in favour of it.
in writing. - (LT) Cities stimulate economic growth and entrepreneurship, and contribute to the creation of new sustainable jobs.
In order to implement the concept of smarter urban development, conditions must be created for cities to develop their infrastructure properly and effectively by means of advanced technologies, in particular information and communications technology (ICT).
It is crucial to regenerate urban areas by reclaiming industrial sites and contaminated land, while promoting inclusive development of urban and rural areas.
To achieve this objective it is necessary to implement multi-level governance, regional planning and the partnership principle.
It should be noted that based on the best practice of Member States regarding strategic planning, the Commission should draw up specific EU guidelines for integrated urban development planning practice and make integrated urban planning legally binding.
This report aims to identify the modern challenges, especially in terms of living standards, faced by EU citizens living in urban areas.
It is worth reminding ourselves that there are some 5 000 towns in Europe with a population of between 5 000 and 50 000 inhabitants and almost 1 000 cities with a population of over 50 000.
Even though only 7% of the population of the EU lives in cities with over 5 million inhabitants, compared with 25% in the United States of America, in numerous urban areas, including in Greece, the population is increasing.
The report, which I voted for, rightly finds that this support needs to be provided at four levels (EU, national, regional and local), by using the corresponding economic and political tools available in each instance (Community funds, national strategic programmes, regional operational programmes and local and private resources).
Since 2009, the date of the first report entitled 'The urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period', new contributions have been made to this issue, and it has been further developed.
The purpose of this report is to follow the previous report up, highlighting several aspects of the urban dimension of cohesion policy that the Committee on Regional Development identifies as crucial or challenging for future cohesion policy, which should become a fully-valued and effective policy for EU cities.
Experience shows that in many cases, project ideas emerge on the basis of available funding, instead of being based on real needs and on strategic priorities.
Combating this is one of the main challenges of development policy and also of cohesion policy.
Europe's cities are its centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, but they face a number of challenges.
The trend towards suburbanisation, the concentration of deprivation and unemployment in urban neighbourhoods, increased congestion and other problems of similar complexity require solutions in the fields of transport and housing, as well as in training and employment schemes which must be tailored to local needs.
European regional and cohesion policies address these challenges.
The main purpose of the enhanced Urban Agenda is to serve the development and qualitative updating of the infrastructure and services in European cities.
On one hand, the future measures must be closely connected to overall EU priorities to justify the contribution of the EU budget.
The Europe 2020 strategy, however, mainly concerns future trends.
So that European cities will always continue to develop, I express my vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - Europe has almost 1 000 cities with populations of more than 50 000 and their composition is constantly evolving.
These responses must be tailored to local needs but recognising that issues such as unemployment, deprivation and social exclusion are universal problems.
The EU's regional and cohesion policies must address these challenges.
The rise of cities as economic drivers for regions and entire countries means that the urban agenda must be based on spatial strategies that recognise the role of cities as not just places to live and work but as providing a service to those in the hinterland and beyond.
In this context, Europe's cities represent centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, but they must face up to a number of challenges.
I welcome the fact that, under this Urban Agenda, the issue regarding the definition of the concept 'urban' is left to the Member States in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
For this reason I welcomed and voted in favour of this measure.
This is another own-initiative report on urban development in Europe which rather repeats what has already been stated in the previous reports on that issue.
The report covers several aspects of the urban dimension of Cohesion Policy such as multi-level governance, partnership principle, sub-delegation of responsibilities, integrated strategic planning and comprehensive financial planning.
Besides some IBM friendly text on "smarter urban development" (para 8) we were mainly disappointed that S&amp;D shadow managed to weaken good wording on the partnership principle.
We have good wording on the costs of economic growth (para 4), climate protection (para 9), internal cohesion (para 10), integrated and bottom-up approach (para 21 and 23), deprived neighbourhoods (para 25) and cross-financing (para 28).
Europe's cities are its centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, but they must face up to a number of challenges.
I agree with the rapporteur in that cohesion policy, including the European Agenda, should pursue the objective of overcoming territorial disparities by investing in smart urban development with the aim of raising cities' infrastructure and services to a higher qualitative level.
The European Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB) have developed three financial instruments, one of which is aimed at administering joint support for sustainable development in urban areas (that is, the Joint European Support for Sustainable Investment in City Areas, or JESSICA).
in writing. - (CS) I voted to adopt the report by Oldřich Vlasák on the European Urban Agenda and its Future in Cohesion Policy.
I welcome the main objective of this report, which is to support the urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period, and to take account of the current development of the urban agenda in the EU.
The instruments of cohesion policy must therefore continue to play an important role in bringing these levels closer together, in the interests of sustainable and safe European transport.
I believe that the European Urban Agenda is a policy of undoubted importance, given that 70% of the European population lives in cities, and that these people generate about 80% of EU gross domestic product (GDP).
The European Urban Agenda focuses on developing infrastructure and services in cities.
Therefore, since urban policy is integrated into cohesion policy objectives, the latter should serve as a link with rural areas in order to foster inclusive development.
Cities should have a voice in solving their problems through multi-level governance and by employing the partnership principle.
Finally, I would like to stress that the preparation of integrated strategic planning should be complemented by flexible financial engineering so that national, regional and local authorities are free to implement their priorities.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report on the European Urban Agenda and its Future in Cohesion Policy.
Urban areas generate around 80% of GDP, consume up to 70% of the energy in the EU and are the major centres of innovation, knowledge and culture.
Some EUR 21.1 billion has been allocated to urban development between 2007 and 2013, representing 6.1% of the EU's cohesion policy budget.
In fact, EUR 3.4 billion is targeted at the rehabilitation of industrial sites and contaminated land, EUR 9.8 billion at urban and rural regeneration projects, EUR 7 billion at green urban transport and EUR 917 million at housing.
Smart cities require a smart communications, transport and energy infrastructure.
I support the development of integrated urban mobility plans and I encourage local authorities to modernise urban public transport to make it more environmentally friendly and efficient.
The implementation of intelligent transport systems (ITS) in urban areas will increase energy efficiency and transport safety.
Since 99% of the housing stock in Europe is made up of old buildings, I call on the Commission and Member States to increase the rate of the ERDF allocation which each Member State can use to boost energy efficiency in housing from 4% to 15% in the future Multiannual Financial Framework.
in writing. - (LT) The rapporteur observes quite rightly that the Member States must make more effort to ensure that sustainable urban development becomes a strategic priority.
Although almost 70% of the population of Lithuania live in cities and suburban areas, my country nevertheless lacks a clear, integrated and sustainable approach.
The report touches upon several challenges of urban planning, such as urban regeneration, adequate housing and green urban transport.
Unfortunately, the list of social problems in Lithuanian urban areas is somewhat longer.
This has a significant impact on the independence of young people living in cities and causes major demographic challenges, because starting a family in urban areas is becoming a difficult task.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted in favour of this report.
One of the reasons why the Lisbon Strategy was unable to achieve its goals was the poor integration of the cities and regions.
In this area it is important not to leave out the most isolated and outermost regions.
The objective of territorial cooperation is essential to putting cohesion policy into practice.
I would like to highlight European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation (EGTCs), which make a significant contribution to cohesion through cross-territorial cooperation programmes.
Serving the harmonious development of the EU is one of the objectives of cohesion policy, which is an indispensable instrument for reinforcing the economic, social and territorial reality of Europe, as well as an essential factor for the realisation of smart and inclusive growth as anticipated in the Europe 2020 strategy.
I support this report as I feel that territorial cohesion should be adequately supported through the allocation of greater structural funds, and it is therefore right that the share allocated to Objective 3 be increased from the current 2.5% to 7%, considering in addition that around 37.5% of the European population lives in border regions.
Allocating greater resources would mean, in the first place, investing in the trans-European transport networks (TEN-Ts), for which modernisation is an urgent priority; and, secondly, proceeding to reduce the physical, cultural, administrative and regulatory obstacles which hamper cooperation and territorial cohesion.
Considering that the territorial cooperation has proved its effectiveness in promoting the harmonious development of the Union as a whole, it's now fundamental to increase its budget from the actual 2.5% to at least the 7% of the overall cohesion policy resources for the next programming period.
I completely agree with the proposals brought forward by the rapporteur, my colleague Mrs Sanchez-Schmid, particularly when it comes to enhancing the role of the European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation (EGTCs) and the financing of this objective.
The aim of Objective 3 of cohesion policy is to bring all of the European regions, particularly cross-border regions, closer together in economic, social and environmental terms.
We need to improve dialogue with these authorities in order to better understand the problems that exist and face up to the challenges.
Finally, as it is still too complicated to implement the territorial cooperation programmes, we asked for them to be simplified and stressed the specific nature of the programmes associated with this objective, which are, by their very nature, international programmes.
I am voting in favour of this report, which highlights the benefits deriving from increased cooperation between neighbouring regions of different Member States.
I agree with the transformation of the objective of territorial cooperation into one of the pillars of cohesion policy in the Community as soon as it is necessary, from the point of view of enhancing the synergies between neighbouring territories that naturally have the same needs and problems, to improve capabilities and increase the means of political, economic and administrative exchange between neighbouring regions.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because we must strengthen territorial cooperation aimed at helping territories and regions work together in tackling their common challenges, reducing the physical, cultural, administrative and regulatory barriers to such cooperation and lessening the border effect.
Furthermore, close cultural and linguistic links between border regions in different Member States, a legacy of history, must be exploited in order to boost cross-border cooperation.
I voted in favour of the report on the cross-border, transnational and interregional territorial cooperation initiative.
In fact, I understand the importance, which was well highlighted by the rapporteur, of greater cooperation between those on the political stage, with the aim of developing and carrying out projects that are more ambitious and useful to all citizens.
It is well-known that populations in border regions are more likely to suffer for want of infrastructure; it follows that participation of all the parties concerned could lead to the needs of all such populations being satisfied, even in the case of those populations that are further away from the centre of Europe.
In this context, I believe it is right that the Commission render all these instruments more visible: only through better publicity of these measures can the parties concerned proceed in unambiguous conditions.
in writing. - In recent years it has become all the more important to limit regulatory and administrative obstacles to cohesion so as to enhance the ability of different regions to address shared problems together.
The need for countries to draw together and for the bond between peoples to continue to grow stronger becomes more apparent than ever when we consider that 37.5% of the European population lives in border regions.
On this account, territorial cooperation thus proves to be crucial from different points of view.
On the one hand, it would promote effectively the consolidation of the internal market, contributing to the breaking down of physical and cultural obstacles which hinder this process; on the other hand, it would support European integration in different political sectors, helping countries to develop coordinated and shared projects.
I agree with the allocation of greater funds to support this policy, above all where this concerns raising the percentage of the budget allocated to interregional cooperation.
I believe that the establishment of these groupings can bring about positive results both from the point of view of governance, in that they would signify cross-border governance that guarantees authorship of different policies at local and regional levels, and from that of social cohesion, as it creates more potential for communities that are linguistically and culturally different from each other to come closer together.
I voted in favour of the report entitled Objective 3: the future agenda for cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation, as it is indispensable to the effectiveness of cohesion policy.
This report, drafted by Mrs Sanchez-Schmid, is on Objective 3: a challenge for territorial cooperation - the future agenda for cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation.
We can think of Objective 3, European territorial cooperation, as the 'poor relation of the Structural Funds'.
Despite the fact that the population in cross-border areas amounts to nearly 200 million, this objective is granted only 2.52% of cohesion funding.
Given that EU cohesion policy is part of a framework of solidarity encompassing the 27 Member States and their 271 regions, and that it aims to end the economic and social disparities that exist therein, it is crucial that the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) increase the funding allocated to this objective, as these are regions with serious competitiveness problems, but are essential to the EU's sustainability.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal to strengthen the 'Territorial Cooperation' objective by increasing the overall budget from 2.5% to 7%, adopting measures to simplify the implementation of programmes and creating European Groupings of Territorial Cooperation (EGTCs), which are essential to the functioning of cross-border governance systems.
in writing. - (SK) The importance of territorial cooperation has increased considerably in the recent past due to the basic regulation governing the Structural Funds and the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
In our effort to fulfil the principle of territorial cohesion, we must better fulfil the goal of territorial cooperation and the standard procedures.
In order that it can be successfully implemented and developed, territorial cooperation, as an important European idea, should also be a kind of symbolic embodiment of the EU for all citizens.
I want to welcome the adoption of this report and to underline the importance of Objective 3, which concerns territorial cooperation, in the European Union's cohesion policy.
As a Member of Parliament representing a constituency very much affected by cross-border issues, and as someone who comes from the only region in France which shares a border with three other EU Member States, I take a great interest in these issues and in projects for cross-border cooperation.
Furthermore, in becoming genuine project zones, these cooperation areas have an essential role to play in consolidating links at local level, between partners from different Member States and between citizens who come together to deal with joint problems.
in writing. - (DE) Cross-border cooperation is essential in border regions.
That is why the Euregio and SaarLorLux regions need to be strengthened.
It is for this reason that I welcome the retention of cross-border cooperation as a key element in structural policy.
I particularly welcome the call for at least 70% of budget funding to be spent on territorial cooperation in cross-border collaboration, on the one hand, and for the funding for territorial cooperation to be increased from a level of 2.5% in the current programming period to at least 7% of total budget funding in the next programming period.
Furthermore, the establishment of European alliances for territorial cooperation is to be made easier, because this new instrument will make it easier for local administrations and citizens to access greater cooperation, benefiting many regions, in particular border regions.
Overall, this report marks an important step in the direction of securing the future of cross-border policy in the EU and will make it possible for the German-speaking community in Belgium, as a border area, to further strengthen and improve its partnership with the border regions.
This objective, set in 2007 and provided with a budget of EUR 8.5 billion for 2007-2013, distributed among cross-border, transnational and interregional programmes, enables 271 European regions to benefit from significant financing aimed at developing and enhancing joint projects and overcoming various natural borders and barriers, such as land and sea borders and administrative barriers, that affect the everyday lives of our citizens.
I have no doubt that Mrs Sanchez-Schmid's report, which was adopted with a large majority, will have an influence on the work of the European Commission as it prepares the legislative proposals that it will bring forward in September.
This report particularly emphasises the need to maintain the predominant status of the cross-border pillar and to develop incentives to spur on large cross-border and transnational projects, such as the trans-European transport networks (TEN-T).
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2007-2013 turned the territorial cooperation objective into one of the three pillars of the EU's cohesion policy, replacing the INTERREG Community initiative.
Since then, territorial cohesion has become, under Article 174 of the Treaty, one of the three components of cohesion policy, alongside economic and social cohesion.
Territorial cohesion is now firmly established as one of the European Union's main priorities.
The aim of territorial cooperation must be to do away with physical, administrative and regulatory obstacles to cohesion and to reduce the border effect between territories and regions in order to enable them to address their shared challenges together, whether those challenges are territorial (services, infrastructure, urban and regional planning), global (globalisation, climate change), economic or societal.
Territorial cooperation brings European added value and plays a key role in deepening the internal market and fostering closer European integration in several sectoral policies, and I agree with the opinion that territorial cooperation should remain one of the pillars of cohesion policy.
The instrument of 'territorial cooperation', as also highlighted in the Europe 2020 strategy, plays a crucial role in consolidating the internal market and promoting European integration in a variety of EU sectoral policies.
I voted in favour of this report so that these objectives might become a reality in the near future, stimulating harmonious growth not only in different sectors but also in areas of Europe often characterised by heterogeneity on the level of territorial development.
To this end, resources are needed - and these should be allocated on the basis of harmonised criteria - as is an effective synergy between cross-border and transnational areas precisely so that local needs can be coordinated with those that have wider scope.
in writing. - (RO) This European Parliament resolution on Objective 3 is important in terms of removing the administrative and legislative obstacles which currently exist between Member States.
The purpose of territorial cooperation, as suggested in this report, is to get Member States to collaborate on services and infrastructure, as well as on urban, regional, economic and social planning.
This cooperation offers the potential of creating a closer, more lasting union between EU Member States.
Objective 3 offers a complex, multidimensional model of cooperation between partners in different Member States, which requires a specific, distinct and uniform approach and implementation in Member States, which will enhance cohesion between them.
European cross-border cooperation is currently part of cohesion policy.
I am convinced that effective territorial cooperation is important not only inside the Union, but chiefly in areas which share a border with the European Union's Member States.
Furthermore, during the Polish Presidency of the Council of the European Union we are going to have the opportunity to promote harmonious principles for the implementation of border cooperation programmes both in internal and external EU border areas.
In relation to the above, I think the Sanchez-Schmid report on a challenge for territorial cooperation - the future agenda for cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation is an important contribution to work on regional policy, and I voted in favour of its adoption.
The basic regulation governing the Structural Funds and the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon have substantially enhanced the importance of 'territorial cooperation', transforming it into one of the three pillars of the EU's cohesion policy.
Cohesion policy should certainly remove the current physical, administrative and regulatory obstacles and reduce the 'border effect' between territories and regions, permitting them to address their shared challenges together, whether these be territorial, global, economic or societal.
We agree with the idea of taking a 'territorial' approach in the early stages of the programming period in order to channel 'convergence' and 'competitiveness and employment' funding towards a number of priority projects, such as trans-European transport networks (TEN-Ts), as identified in advance and agreed with programme partners, in keeping with the basic tenets of multi-level governance and European partnership.
in writing. - (LT) Funding for territorial cooperation should be increased, taking into account its influence on cohesion policy.
However, when increasing the budget for this programming period, we must clearly indicate the cohesion policy budget lines for which the funding allocated will be reduced, without prejudicing the implementation of cohesion policy objectives.
Territorial cooperation eradicates administrative and regulatory barriers between territories and regions and helps address issues linked to territorial, economic and social cohesion.
Consequently, funding for its implementation should be increased.
I believe that there should be more flexibility in the application of the geographical limit of 150 km for coastal and maritime regions.
Furthermore, the Commission should evaluate the results of the first macro-regional strategies implemented.
Territorial cooperation is closely linked to Europe's external borders and it is therefore necessary to ensure more effective synergies between the ERDF and other arrangements for cooperation, create more favourable funding opportunities and implement a new neighbourhood policy.
It should be noted that the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes is currently hindered by the fact that this involves many different authorities.
in writing. - Improved cooperation between EU Member States on bilateral, regional and interregional levels is not only a crucial part of the European Union's mandate but also increasingly necessary in maintaining EU solidarity as we tackle a growing number of issues.
I supported this resolution because it acknowledges that we need to simplify the implementation elements of these levels of cooperation and involve private actors especially with regard to cooperation on economic development.
EU Member States will continue to greatly benefit from enhanced mediums for cooperation with other Member States.
Subsequently, under Article 174 of the Treaty of Lisbon, territorial cohesion has become one of the three components of cohesion policy, alongside economic and social cohesion.
This is one of the European Union's main priorities.
The aim of this policy is to do away with physical, administrative and regulatory obstacles to cohesion, and to reduce the 'border effect' between territories and regions in order to enable them to address their shared challenges together, whether those challenges are territorial (services, infrastructure, urban and regional planning), global (globalisation, climate change), economic or societal.
I voted in favour because of the main thrust of the report, specifically: strengthening the 'territorial cooperation' objective through territorial cohesion programming at all planning stages and in coordination with the Europe 2020 strategy; adopting a territorial approach to other EU policies; encouraging the establishment of European Groupings of Territorial Cooperation (EGTCs); simplifying the implementation of this policy; and committing to making it visible across Europe are the reasons behind my vote in favour.
The basic regulation governing the Structural Funds and the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon have substantially enhanced the importance of 'territorial cooperation' in the last five years, transforming it into one of the three pillars of the EU's cohesion policy.
The financial framework for the period 2007-2013 turned the 'territorial cooperation' objective into one of the three pillars of the EU's cohesion policy, replacing the INTERREG Community initiative.
Subsequently, under Article 174 of the Treaty, 'territorial cohesion' has become one of the three components of cohesion policy alongside economic and social cohesion, and, in fact, constitutes one of the EU's main priorities.
This aims to remove the current physical, administrative and regulatory obstacles and alleviate the 'border effect' between territories and regions, permitting them to address their shared challenges together, whether these be territorial, global, economic or societal.
Objective 3 provides for complex and multidimensional cooperation that brings partners from different Member States together.
In order that territorial cooperation should become the symbolic embodiment of the EU for all its citizens, and that policy-makers and civil servants could become acquainted with the practical aspects of territorial cooperation which relate to their work, I am voting in favour of this proposal.
I concur with the rapporteur in affirming the great importance of 'territorial cooperation', which aims to remove physical, administrative and regulatory obstacles and reduce the 'border effect' between regions, promoting their harmonious development.
This new approach will also be relevant to mountain regions which could similarly play a leading role in realising the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
However, in order to realise these objectives, territorial cooperation programmes will have to be simplified, and local authorities and the public will need to be more involved by encouraging better communication through a large-scale media and awareness-raising campaign.
The draft text of the rapporteur broadly met the position of our group on objective 3.
In the logic of the Europe 2020 strategy, better allocation of funds is important in order to respond adequately to the needs and idiosyncrasies of European territories.
For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the report.
Since 1986, the objective of cohesion policy has been to strengthen economic and social cohesion between the different Member States of the EU.
However, the Treaty of Lisbon and the new Europe 2020 strategy set out a third dimension, dubbed 'territorial cohesion', which promotes a functional approach to the integrated development of the 271 regions, viewed as areas where people live.
I believe that territorial cohesion should contribute to doing away with physical, administrative and regulatory obstacles between the European regions, and should promote harmonious European development and growing cooperation through joint projects between different regions which have similar characteristics and development objectives.
I would also stress that territorial strategies should be directly related to the trans-European transport network guidelines, to the strategies of the integrated maritime policy and to the Europe 2020 strategy, so as to build a smart, sustainable and inclusive Europe.
Finally, I fully agree with the idea that it is necessary to set out an action plan for the EU's outermost regions, and multisectoral principles should be established which support their harmonious development and help to reduce the territorial disparities with other European regions.
in writing. - (DE) The cofinancing of cross-border, transnational and interregional projects epitomises the EU.
I have voted in favour of this report.
I voted in favour of the report presented by Mrs Sanchez-Schmid.
While it upholds the original structure of Objective 3, the report proposes an increase in funds and draws attention to the specific needs of border populations.
A strategic approach and a response aimed at the needs and idiosyncrasies of every region can be guaranteed by allocating funds on the basis of harmonised criteria for every territorial cooperation programme.
I firmly believe that an effective strategic framework can ensure a common approach and capitalise on the synergies between all the funds to support the cohesion policy objectives, such as those set out in the Treaties, and thus better serve the people of the EU and meet their expectations.
The need for greater flexibility in the use of funds and for an administrative culture that promotes a multidisciplinary approach and simpler fund administration is vital for establishing a common strategic framework for the Structural Funds.
In terms of synergies between the Structural Funds, the European Parliament has insisted on the need to avoid a high concentration of capacity in economic clusters and top European Union regions.
I think that an integrated approach is needed between the different sectoral policies in order to achieve the optimum result for economic development and growth, the reduction of development disparities between regions, job creation, improvement in quality of life, worker training for new jobs, social and territorial cohesion and the implementation of the European social model, which is a factor contributing to cohesion and the European economy's competitiveness.
Focusing the funds' joint action at regional or local level enhances their added value and permits stakeholders to fine-tune specific actions to the real economic and social needs and, therefore, to the employment situation in each specific region.
All those involved in cohesion policy agree that having several European funds in parallel - the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund, the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) - does not always allow the European Union's financial resources to be managed in an optimal way.
I voted in favour of this report because it proposes interesting ways of achieving the imperative objective of increasing consistency between these devices.
Although we are now thinking about and debating the next multiannual framework, it was important to reiterate the fact that cohesion policy remains an essential lever for growth and that the budget earmarked for it should not be reduced.
One of the ways in which we can make improvements is to raise the level of consistency among the various instruments and policies, particularly in relation to the Europe 2020 strategy, so as to achieve a better synergy between the various funds, and thus to enable us to have a more results-oriented regional development policy.
One consequence of the proliferation of funds is that they are less visible, and thus citizens and interested parties are less aware of them; another is that this can lead to duplications or inconsistencies and thus reduce the overall impact of this policy.
By improving synergies, we will be able to increase the European added value of cohesion policy for local and regional partners across the European Union, which will in turn enable citizens to draw increased benefits.
The European Union has insisted in several resolutions on the need for an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies in order to achieve the optimal result for growth and development in the EU.
It is certainly clear that, in the future, the need to consolidate budgets will force us to seek a bigger impact from the funding available.
I believe that this difficult moment in history, which the whole of Europe is experiencing, does, nevertheless, present an opportunity to use the negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) to achieve greater synergies from the EU programmes and funds.
In particular, the experience of these years clearly demonstrates that funding of economic actions such as innovation, research and the environment from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) can be more effective if closely coordinated and integrated with the actions undertaken by the European Social Fund (ESF).
Finally, I would like to reiterate the call to the Commission to promote a culture that aims to simplify the administration of EU funds.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because the rationalisation of spending calls for greater effectiveness and efficiency of policies at EU level as well as at national, regional and local levels.
Furthermore, in the interinstitutional negotiations on the new EU financial perspective (2014-2020), the European Parliament should provide specific proposals on a single strategic framework, to ensure the implementation of the EU cohesion policy objectives and the effectiveness of the Structural Funds.
We should draw attention to the fact that the economic and financial crisis has further increased the urgent need for measures in sectors covered by the European Social Fund (ESF), promoting in particular employment, career reorientation, social inclusion and poverty reduction.
Furthermore, I would like to stress that the ESF, as a support instrument for ongoing training, the acquisition of qualifications and career reorientation, should be considered an essential resource - which is not in fact being exploited to the full - for the promotion of comprehensive and efficient growth and knowledge-based competitiveness for Europe.
Expenditure in the field of cohesion policy must be rationalised by reducing fragmentation of funding instruments and fostering greater complementarity between the various funding instruments.
Moreover, we need to take into account the Commission proposal for better prioritisation and a thematic concentration of EU and national resources on a number of priorities in order to achieve more effective coordination between the funds.
in writing. - It is crucially important to ensure the effectiveness of these and other European funds, in order to ensure their continued support from the European people.
I welcome the ideas that have been taken forward, through the adoption of this report, to enhance synergies between policies with an impact on territories, on the one hand, and between funds, on the other hand, in particular by increasing financing and setting up multiregional programmes.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion policy is one of the fundamental pillars of an EU that is conscious not only to promote and develop excellence by encouraging innovation, but also to create convergence and bridge the gaps of and in less developed areas compared with more advanced ones.
However, this important approach is liable, in many cases, to be frustrated by the considerable autonomy and strong competition existing between the various authorities in charge of managing each monofund programme.
In the next programming period, then, it may be worth reverting to multifund programmes, incorporating in them the experience gained from joint programming and encouraging shared and responsible management between the various stakeholders in charge of regional development.
I believe that the adopted report makes an effective contribution to these objectives.
I voted in favour of the report on increased effectiveness between the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the other Structural Funds as I believe that the development of a strategic framework could ensure a common approach and capitalise on synergies between the various existing funds, with a view to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy as defined by the Treaties, thus meeting the expectations of citizens.
Parliament has been stressing the need to increase the effectiveness of the combined application of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the other Structural Funds, along with an integrated approach to the various sectoral policies.
The need to avoid wasting resources, which is ever more pressing in the times of serious crisis that we are experiencing, makes it advisable to seek to take the most advantage possible of the synergies resulting from the resources made available by the Structural Funds, and to avoid wasting opportunities due to excessive leakage.
This effort to use available means will contribute to improving opportunities for sustainable growth, reducing disparities between regions, and encouraging social inclusion and cohesion between regions.
The desired flexibility should be accompanied by close monitoring of the implementation of the funds so that this is done with maximum compliance with the rules of rigour and transparency.
Over two decades, the Structural Funds have been invested in various regions of Europe and have made a key contribution to improving the quality of life of millions of Europeans.
A rigorous assessment of all projects underway is therefore urgently needed, along with a strategic redirection of the funds that are still available, taking into account the achievement of the objectives set out by the Europe 2020 strategy in preparation for the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF).
I support the recommendations in this report aimed at creating synergies through the establishment of a strategic instrument that covers all the Structural Funds and is geared towards innovation and technological development, supporting companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, and reducing administrative costs.
The objective advocated in this report is clear: the creation of a single strategic framework for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the other Structural Funds, particularly the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Fisheries Fund (EFF), for the next financing period after 2013, along with its coordination with other instruments of the external aspects of EU policy.
By creating a single strategic framework, the specific characteristics and diversity of beneficiary areas and sectors may be lost, opening the way for the EU budget to be restricted and payments from the funds to be reduced, as the major EU powers have advocated.
This new framework aims to promote competition and strengthen the integration of EU policies in order to consolidate the Europe 2020 strategy, in favour of big companies and financial institutions, and of the concentration and centralisation of capital.
For our part, we will continue to advocate making full use of these funds and making them complement each other, in order to defend and promote production in each country, to combat unemployment and promote jobs with rights, to create wealth and distribute it better, to advocate quality public services, to combat poverty, and to defend small-scale coastal fishing, family-run farms and small and medium-sized farmers.
This report advocates the creation of a single strategic framework for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the other Structural Funds, particularly the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Fisheries Fund (EFF), for the next financing period after 2013, along with its coordination with other instruments of the external aspects of EU policy.
It should be taken into account that by creating a single strategic framework, the specific characteristics and diversity of beneficiary areas and sectors may be lost, opening the way for the EU budget to be restricted and payments from the funds to be reduced, as the major EU powers have advocated.
This new framework aims to promote competition and strengthen the integration of EU policies in order to consolidate the Europe 2020 strategy, to the benefit of the usual suspects: big companies and financial institutions, and the concentration and centralisation of capital.
For our part, we will continue to advocate making full use of these funds and making them complement each other, in order to defend and promote production in each country, making use of their potential for combating unemployment and promoting jobs with rights, to create wealth and distribute it better, to advocate quality public services, to combat poverty, and to defend small-scale coastal fishing, family-run farms and small and medium-sized farmers.
in writing. - (SK) Europe is in a post-crisis period, and for this reason it is right to make even greater efforts to coordinate the activities of EU funds and programmes.
As far as the European Social Fund is concerned, experience shows that funding the economic measures of the European Regional Development Fund can be more effective if it is better coordinated and is integrated into the activities performed by this fund.
The current system for planning and fulfilling programmes, which links the policies relating to the development of human resources, the business development of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, and infrastructure development, serves as an instrument for bringing the assisted regions into line.
Each of these policies would achieve less by itself than they are all achieving together at present in the integrated system of programme planning and fulfilment.
It is desirable for the carefully planned interventions and programmes to be implemented in this way, and for them to take account of local peculiarities and comparative advantages, or the specific features of each region, in an integrated approach based on local specifics.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because it calls for a single strategic framework to be proposed, in time for the next financing period after 2013, to ensure a common approach and to capitalise on synergies between all actions which serve on the ground to further cohesion policy objectives as defined by the Treaties and are funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund, the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Fisheries Fund (EFF).
I believe that cohesion policy is one of the pillars of an EU economic policy favouring a long-term investment strategy and social inclusion.
Greater flexibility of the funds, the simplification of their administration and strategic coordination between instruments, policies and actors is a long-standing demand and a necessary tool for the social inclusion of marginalized groups within a complex policy framework of integrated policies, making use of all the EU financial resources available under the EU funds, and in particular under the ERDF, ESF and EAFRD.
The amendment of the regulation governing the ERDF extending the eligibility of housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities enables Member States to revise their Operational Programmes and re-prioritise their investments, by using maximum 2% of their total ERDF allocation for housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities for both replacement and renovation.
Member States must make full use of this opportunity to complement their efforts to ensure the effective social inclusion of the most vulnerable and the European Commission should come forward with a specific action plan on this Regulation to speed up the use of funds and to prepare a report on their utilisation.
Cohesion policy is one of the pillars of EU economic policy.
My vote in favour of this report confirms my belief in this objective but also my awareness of the need to simplify provisions at national and regional level in order to implement projects by the agreed deadlines, prevent bureaucratic delays and reduce administrative burdens, thereby increasing their absorption capacity.
in writing. - (RO) A robust, properly financed cohesion policy provides a key instrument for achieving the Europe 2020 strategy objectives.
This is conducive to a well-devised, long-term investment strategy, generates added value, promotes social inclusion and, at the same time, harmonious development across the entire European Union.
I think that we must provide support to Member States and regions by encouraging synergy between structural, social and rural policies.
Establishing a common strategic framework for the next financial programming period would offer an enhanced approach and leverage the synergies better between the measures implemented in Europe's regions, intended to support EU policy objectives.
The European Union needs new synergies and an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies in order to achieve the optimal result for growth and development on the ground.
There needs to be a greater commitment to regional policy that is increasingly flexible and integrated with other instruments and programmes.
We believe that ERDF funding for innovation, research, the environment and SMEs can only become more effective if it is closely coordinated and integrated with social action in general.
A fragmented approach may lead to overlapping or even conflicting policies, contradictory public actions or, worse, duplication of resources.
We believe that keeping together the planning of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund and re-integrating them better with the Rural Development Fund and the Fisheries Fund is a way of unlocking the potential of regions that are lagging behind.
Greater flexibility, a new multidisciplinary approach and simplification in the management of funds may be the key to the success of our development and territorial cohesion policy.
I voted in favour of the Stavrakakis report because I believe that the various European funds available for implementing regional policies should be made easier to use.
I refer in particular to the development of synergies for an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies that exist in the field of regional policy, as highlighted in the report.
The need to enhance the impact of available funding is made even more acute by the current economic and financial crisis.
Ensuring a common approach to these various regional funds will also serve to prevent overlapping and confusion for those economic operators at regional and local level who are interested in receiving European funding for a particular project.
Furthermore, adopting a systematic and synergic approach between the various European regional funds will contribute to the adoption of cohesion policy objectives and hence the reduction of disparities in development between European regions, and will facilitate social inclusion.
in writing. - (LT) We must make every effort to create a favourable environment for all Member States to take advantage of the assistance provided by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and other structural funds.
In order to implement cohesion policy objectives, we must clarify the synergies between these funds, address issues surrounding their coordination and simplify the funds' management rules.
Consequently, after 2013, it is very important to comply with the common approach and the single strategic framework established.
It is also necessary to reduce the fragmentation of funding instruments, ensuring the rationalisation of cohesion policy spending.
It should be noted that cohesion policy guarantees sustainable and long-term European Union development, and, consequently, must remain independent and be allocated increased funding.
I believe that cohesion policy must be more result-oriented, and less focused on the regularity of expenditure and procedures.
European cohesion policy is and will remain a cornerstone of the EU's tangible action in its regions, as well as the main source of investment in the real economy, capable of helping Europe and its regions to recover from the crisis and become competitive again.
The European Regional Development Fund and the other Structural Funds have accomplished a great deal, but they can and must do more and better for the European Union.
In particular, I agree with Mr Stavrakakis's suggestions and proposals aimed at making more effective use of EU funds.
I hope that the European Commission will take Parliament's request on board, particularly in view of the new financial perspective for 2014-2020.
The current economic situation should be seen as an opportunity to reformulate anything that could be made more efficient, tenaciously combating any and every instance where time and resources are being wasted, with greater legitimacy.
The need to consolidate public budgets means that we need to be more innovative and seek to achieve a greater impact from the available funding.
The instruments of EU cohesion policy are managed in a common framework that ranges from the strategic guidelines to payments and the submission of reports.
However, coordination between cohesion policy instruments and others should be increased.
The reform of structural policy for the 2007-2013 programming period led to the separation of rural development from the general framework of the Structural Funds.
That separation should not result in the duplication or the omission of objectives, and development opportunities should be ensured in rural and urban areas alike, but there is conflicting evidence from the ground.
Efficiency of rural development policies requires close coordination with the implementation of measures under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and regional policy instruments alike.
A single strategic framework is required for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund, the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Fisheries Fund (EFF), to ensure a common approach and to increase the synergies between all the financing instruments mentioned.
The aim of cohesion policy is to reduce the disparities between regions and to promote social inclusion, for the sake of balanced and harmonious development.
I voted in favour so as to ensure that funds are coordinated better and that regional and local authorities are involved in the development and implementation of partnership contracts.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion are fundamental principles in determining all EU policies and activities.
Innovation means creating synergies and an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies in order to achieve the optimal result for growth and development on the ground.
The resolution adopted by the Committee on Regional Development proposes the creation, as from the forthcoming post-2013 programming period, of a single strategic framework to ensure a common approach and to capitalise on synergies between all actions which serve to further cohesion policy objectives as defined by the Treaties and funded by the ERDF, the Cohesion Fund, the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Fisheries Fund (EFF).
It points out that increased synergies among the Structural Funds are necessary in order to meet the Europe 2020 objectives, but also and above all to meet the cohesion policy objectives.
in writing. - In Favour.
To increase synergies, a single strategic framework should be adopted that will strengthen the integration of EU policies for the purposes of implementing the Europe 2020 strategy.
Integrated planning clearly allows for the Structural Funds to be used in a way that will further Europe's cohesion policy objectives.
One objective to be achieved is the redistribution of European resources that have not been used in certain regions to other, more virtuous regions, but still in the same State.
I endorsed the resolution on the state of play and future synergies for increased effectiveness between the ERDF and other structural funds.
Research conducted in Poland to identify barriers to the take-up of structural funds has shown that the two main obstacles are the lack of comprehensive information and the bureaucratic system of applying for EU funds and accounting for their use.
The new policy must be characterised by greater flexibility, proportionality and visibility in the use of the funds.
Simplification of procedures would be helped by harmonising the rules concerning management, eligibility, audit and reporting of projects financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Fisheries Fund.
A comprehensive approach of this kind may also help to improve the access of potential beneficiaries to essential information.
The issue of greater effectiveness and more synergies between the various Structural Funds is of major importance in debates about future cohesion policy.
As the shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I believe that we must include regional and local authorities in the preparation and implementation of partnerships, and move towards a thematic concentration of priorities and financial resources to be allocated in the future.
The regional dimension should be present and contribute to demonstrating the benefit of cohesion policy for the EU.
in writing. - (DE) The rapporteur has emphasised more than once that greater coordination and an integrated planning and implementation system are vital if the best possible results are to be achieved with the subsidies from the three cohesion policy funds.
in writing. - On the Sanchez-Schmid, Stavrakakis, Vlasak and Mikolasik reports: Conservative MEPs have elected to reject these reports on the future direction of Cohesion policy, with the exception of the Vlasak report where we have abstained.
This is due to a number of fundamental reasons: it is our contention that at a time of ongoing fiscal consolidation across Member States, it is totally unacceptable that the EU's large Cohesion budget should remain untouched by these efforts.
Generally, these reports fail to meet Conservative concerns regarding the EU's management of Cohesion policy in any meaningful way.
They reject any moves to allow richer Member States to fund their own regional development and prevent the emergence of a smaller, more efficient and more targeted Cohesion policy towards Europe's poorest regions.
These reports go in entirely the wrong direction.
Current events show that the European Stability and Growth Pact is not very efficient and has failed to prevent several Member States from encountering serious problems in their balance of payments and in paying off their debt.
In addition to the aid provided to these countries by the EU, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact in order to avoid crises of this kind in the future.
That is the objective of the economic governance package, of which this report by my fellow Member Mrs Ferreira is a part.
On 29 September 2010, the Commission tabled a legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the European Union and the euro area.
The strengthening of economic governance must be linked to a strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the decisions made.
This report, which I voted for, states that the corrective action plan shall set out the specific policy actions that the Member State concerned has implemented or intends to implement, and it shall include the timetable for them.
Equally important among the corrective measures is the possibility for the Commission to carry out enhanced surveillance missions in the Member State concerned in order to monitor the implementation of the plan.
Lastly, I would like to highlight Parliament's power to act on its own initiative or at the request of a Member State to invite the President of the Council, the Commission and, where justified, the President of the Euro Group to appear before the relevant parliamentary committee to discuss the decision declaring non-compliance.
The inability to assess with certainty the impact of the directives presented in this report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is what made up my mind to abstain from the vote.
On the other hand, however, that strategy should not result in indiscriminate interference by the EU central authority in the economies of individual Member States.
The protection of national powers and freedoms is a guarantee of the proper functioning of the EU, and therefore it must not be sacrificed even under circumstances such as the Greek crisis.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this amendment, because I believe that, following the financial and economic crisis that hit Europe and the rest of the world, it is very important to review the issues of Europe's macroeconomic development and fiscal discipline.
It is a difficult time, but also the right time to complete and correct the existing model in light of past and present evidence, and for the first time, the European Parliament is involved in the process of making these important decisions.
The prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is a new disciplinary measure for euro area Member States, under which penalties would be introduced to punish fraud or unwillingness to act on agreed recommendations without acceptable justification, but not the inability to achieve the proposed targets.
This disciplinary measure will take into account the total burden of the penalties imposed on the state, and their total amount will be subject to a maximum cap.
The Ferreira report is part of the legislative package for reforming economic governance, which consists of six reports resulting from months of negotiations.
Parliament has sent a clear message to everyone, and particularly to the Council.
I therefore hope that this package will be definitively approved before the summer recess and, above all, applied as soon as possible, so that the European Union is not unprepared, as it was in the past, to rise to the challenges threatening its stability.
In particular, I voted in favour of the Ferreira report because I believe that the emphasis on the role of the scoreboard, as an instrument for identifying possible imbalances by means of specific criteria, is an excellent basis on which to analyse the problem.
In fact, I believe that the first step to be taken in preventing future economic crises is to analyse thoroughly the risk factors that may lead to budgetary imbalances, and this report duly addresses this issue.
Furthermore, these criteria are common and quantifiable, so they can be assessed and compared uniformly across Europe.
I voted in favour of the report because I agree that, when the Commission carries out its economic reading of the scoreboard in connection with the alert mechanism, it should pay particular attention to the evolution of the real economy, including economic growth and employment and unemployment rates; nominal and real convergence inside and outside the euro area; the development of productivity and its main drivers, such as research and development and external or internal investment; and trends at sectoral level, including energy, which affect the performance of both gross domestic product and current account balance.
The current economic, financial and social crisis has demonstrated that the European Union's current economic governance model has not worked: the surveillance framework has shown itself to be very weak and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact have not been respected.
I endorse Mrs Ferreira's report on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances.
I agree with the possibility of calling for structural reforms in surplus countries, but most attention should be given to deficit countries.
While it is completely new within the EU legal framework, it is absolutely innovative in its content and in what it proposes, which is to identify and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the Union.
Drawing on the lessons to be learnt from the recent crisis, this report is noteworthy for seeking to prioritise the monitoring and coordination of the economic policies adopted in the various Member States, for the sake of a strong, well-balanced economic union.
I believe the Commission should have a stronger and more independent role in the enhanced surveillance procedure as regards assessments that are specific to each Member State, monitoring, missions and recommendations.
The prevention and correction framework and the whole economic governance framework should promote growth and jobs and boost the Union's competitiveness and social stability.
I therefore agree that surveillance of the economic policies of the Member States should be broadened beyond budgetary surveillance to prevent excessive macroeconomic imbalances and vulnerabilities within the Union.
This report is part of the package of six pieces of legislation on so-called economic governance.
While the intention of the rapporteur and her political group was to make it stand out from the other five, the fact is that it is very revealing of the contradictions that exist in this European Union.
In fact, it is not enough to identify macroeconomic imbalances in the Member States if there are no alternative EU policies to the current ones, based on solidarity and economic and social cohesion, in order to remedy the imbalances.
Pious declarations of good intentions about protecting jobs and workers' and social rights profoundly contradict statements about maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact (which has been called 'stupid'), including the toughening of sanctions against those countries with more vulnerable economies that have fallen victim to neoliberal policies, and the Euro Plus Pact.
The rapporteur and her political group also insist on acknowledging that the policies that they have supported and endorsed are the fundamental cause of the crisis, and that the creation of the single currency in the image of the German mark was based on false assumptions, which only served the interests of economic and financial groups in the strongest economies.
If things continue like this, we will inevitably witness an even greater deterioration of the economic, social and political situation.
This report is part of the package of six pieces of legislation on economic governance and reveals the contradictions that exist in the European Union.
The fact is that it is not enough to identify macroeconomic imbalances in the Member States if there are no alternative EU policies based on solidarity and economic and social cohesion to remedy the imbalances.
It is not enough, therefore, to make declarations of good intentions about protecting jobs and workers' and social rights if, afterwards, they do not put an end to the Stability and Growth Pact and the Euro Pact, replacing them with a genuine Progress and Social Development Pact, but prefer to impose broader demands and tougher sanctions on countries and peoples that have fallen victim to neoliberal policies.
That will happen until they recognise that the creation of the single currency in the image of the German mark was based on false assumptions, which only served the interests of powerful economic and financial groups, and that that is the fundamental cause of the exacerbation of the crises ... (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (SK) The attempt to correct macroeconomic imbalances is extremely important for the future of the euro area and the EU.
It is right that the Stability and Growth Pact and the full framework of administration of economic affairs should support the EU strategy on growth and jobs and comply with them, and also that it should aim to boost the competitiveness of all Member States as well as social stability in all regions of the EU.
The prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is an effective instrument for handling the weak points arising specifically as a result of medium-term and long-term trends, the growing differences within the Union and the euro area and also the external consequences of policies of individual Member States.
We should improve the framework for economic governance and thus bring about the sustainable and balanced growth of the Union as a whole.
in writing. - (EL) The New Democracy group of MEPs voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package.
The European Parliament's proposals pave the way for an environment of economic stability, while at the same time allowing for the development of innovative mechanisms, such as Eurobonds and European project bonds.
in writing. - I will vote in favour of the Ferreira report, as it is the only one that emphatically highlights the crucial importance of retaining a broad macroeconomic perspective which takes into account varying levels of productivity in Member States whilst simultaneously safeguarding fundamental and social rights through the 'Monti clause'.
On the other hand, the economic package proposed by all the other reports only maintains further implementation of widespread austerity measures, which have had, and might well continue to have, damaging effects on economic growth.
Policies which are solely focused on austerity measures and exclusively encourage further cuts without any investment plans hinder job creation.
Indeed, changes such as extensive structural and regulatory reform of the financial sector must take place, but any improvement of the current situation can only occur through the creation of incentives as well as radical and comprehensive modernisation policies and targeted investment.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because this procedure should put in place an alert mechanism for the early detection of emerging macroeconomic imbalances.
This evaluation should take into account, inter alia, nominal and real convergence in the euro area and beyond.
If severe macroeconomic imbalances are identified, including imbalances that jeopardise the proper functioning of the economic and monetary union, an excessive imbalance procedure should be initiated that may include issuing recommendations to the Member State, enhanced surveillance and monitoring requirements and, in respect of Member States whose currency is the euro, the possibility of enforcement (penalties) in the event of sustained failure to take corrective action.
in writing. - The response that Europe needs is a stability pact.
The package is of major importance for the future of the EU and, in particular, of the euro area.
The prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is a powerful instrument to address fragilities arising, from medium and long term structural trends, from the enlarging divergences within the Union.
in writing. - (RO) This proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances intends to improve the Commission's proposals on creating a powerful instrument where fiscal discipline, economic growth and employment in the EU are interconnected and make a crucial contribution to the stability of the European Union and the euro, with the aim of avoiding future financial crises like the current one.
It should be noted that this report is drafted on the basis of prior experience within the EU on the functioning of the economic and monetary union, which identifies the need for an enhanced economic governance framework, as is proposed in this report.
I particularly welcome the provisions for upholding workers' rights and the importance of a comprehensive assessment of economic performance, particularly including employment.
The text negotiated by the right wing majorities in Parliament, Council and the Commission puts too much emphasis on short term, severe cuts to deficits, not long term growth.
These rules would be imposed across the European Union, removing the flexibility for national governments to respond with different policies in the future.
Long term growth keeps debt falling as a proportion of GDP, and is essential to providing jobs and economic well-being and funding high quality public services.
To ensure this package supports economic growth, investment spending must be protected.
Cutting such spending in times of recession would also worsen an economic downturn.
The Commission will be able to implement them in a semi-automatic fashion, thanks to reversed qualified majority voting.
I am voting against this democratic aberration, which I condemn.
in writing. - (DE) The targets identified in terms of economic growth, employment and competitiveness cannot be attained through the planned measures because the economic development of the Member States is being stifled.
A framework for controlling economic policy can perhaps be implemented by the various constituent Member States, but not by the EU as a whole, because the strength of the different national economies varies so much.
A call for the surveillance of national economic policies in the present situation would mean socialist state intervention, something that failed in the past and that is one of the reasons for the current financial difficulties in the euro area.
There is little democratic legitimisation for such measures, which is why I voted against this report.
in writing. - (DE) The Commission's proposals primarily aim to tighten up the regulations of the Stability and Growth Pact.
It is about time that we concentrated on stable, sovereign national economies and reducing the national debts of individual states.
What we need are democratic solutions rather than bureaucratic procedures in order to ensure significant and effective coordination of economic policy at EU level that will benefit all the people of Europe.
in writing. - (LT) It is very important to establish an effectively functioning, fully-fledged mechanism for the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, which would warn about and respond promptly to the risk of macroeconomic imbalances.
The Commission, together with the Council and the European Parliament, must construct this scoreboard and macroeconomic and macrofinancial indicators intended for Member States.
I believe that, under special economic circumstances, the scoreboard of indicators and alert thresholds, should be symmetric and differentiated for euro area and non-euro area Member States.
Furthermore, the Council should provide regular reports on the measures carried out that led the excessive imbalance procedure to be placed in a position of abeyance in a certain Member State.
The risk of imbalances must be assessed constantly in order to prevent them from emerging, and the Member States must be given timely recommendations to avoid possible interference with the functioning of the economic and monetary union.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this particular report on macroeconomic imbalances because it addresses the details about the current debt issue in some member states, and more importantly, it offers a progressive method to solve such a serious problem concerning not only short-term but also long-term consequences.
I believe that Europe needs progressive investment to help with economic growth and job creation, and therefore simply just cutting budgets could only undermine the entire economic and political system in the long term.
As a social democrat who emphasizes the fundamental of social rights of the people and the long-term well being of the society, I support this proposal for its depth and comprehensiveness in addressing these issues.
I voted in favour of Mrs Ferreira's report because I believe that an EU-coordinated surveillance mechanism for the identification and prevention of macroeconomic imbalances is important, as is a procedure for the correction of excessive imbalances.
I believe that this scoreboard is important in terms of giving us a general and complete overview, and I therefore believe it should be a flexible and adaptable instrument so that it can be modified and adapted to varying requirements and situations, clearly guaranteeing a framework of legal certainty.
I hope that Parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the entire governance package as quickly as possible, in order to send a strong and unified message to the public and the markets and to stop speculation.
On 29 September 2010, the Commission tabled a legislative package aimed at reinforcing economic governance in the EU and the euro area.
The package is made up of six proposals: four of them deal with budgetary issues, including a reform of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), while two new regulations aim at detecting and resolving emerging macroeconomic imbalances within the EU and the euro area.
This draft opinion is on the proposal, tabled by the Commission, for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies.
I therefore voted for this report.
Strengthening economic governance should go hand in hand with reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken, because economic governance cannot be dissociated from financial market regulation and supervision.
I voted in favour of an extensive reform of the governance framework based on the Community method in order to ensure that Parliament improves the Commission proposals on the establishment of a robust and coherent framework for the next decades, guaranteeing compatibility between fiscal discipline and economic growth.
This is the only report seeking to go against the dominant trend for the economic governance package as a whole.
In it, deficit and debt are no more important than surpluses and commercial deficits, than employment and unemployment, or than any qualitative challenges that might ensure a sustainable growth strategy.
in writing. - The current economic crisis facing Europe requires a new approach.
Even the approach by the EU is novel in this regard as this is the first time the Parliament is co-deciding with the Council on macroeconomic developments and the Council needs the Parliament's agreement in order to reach a final consensus.
It is vitally important to send a strong signal to the markets and to citizens both of the EU's intention to combat this financial crisis and of its capacity to resolve differences and address crucial issues.
I also welcome the approach taken to address fraud and an unwillingness to act on agreed recommendations without a reasonable justification.
It is important that such sanctions exist but it is equally important that we do not punish states where they are unable to achieve proposed targets and I welcome the report in this respect.
This report seeks to include prevention and correction mechanisms for Member States when they are facing fiscal imbalances.
The prevention side includes mechanisms such as an annual review of fiscal balances, early warning mechanisms from the European Commission and prevention recommendations to address minor imbalances.
As a corrective measure, a procedure to deal with excessive imbalances will be introduced, namely the excessive imbalance procedure (EIP) and also the requirement to submit specific action plans by Member States.
I believe that the package of interventions contained in the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council may be effective in preventing macroeconomic imbalances, especially in the euro area.
Furthermore, Parliament intends to improve the Commission proposals in order to establish a robust and coherent legislative framework guaranteeing economic growth and employment for the next decades.
At this particularly difficult time for the EU, it is vital to respond by amending, completing and correcting the current sustainable growth model, and by strengthening economic governance and the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken.
in writing. - The ECR has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis.
The defects of the Stability and Growth Pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works.
It includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of Member States, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments.
The stability of the euro area, in particular, and of Europe as a whole requires the restructuring of prevention and surveillance instruments, in order to correct macroeconomic imbalances.
Financial consolidation is essential for correcting the errors of the past, and for a sustained growth of Europe's economies that is not supported by public and foreign debt, but rather by the promotion of employment and competitiveness.
Current events show that the European Stability and Growth Pact is not very efficient and has failed to prevent several Member States from encountering serious problems in their balance of payments and in paying off their debt.
In addition to the aid provided to these countries by the EU, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact in order to avoid crises of this kind in the future.
That is the objective of the economic governance package, of which this report by my colleague Mr Feio is a part.
I am in favour, in particular, of calculating debt reduction according to an average rate calculated over a three-year period, rather than according to a fixed rate each year over a three-year period.
I supported this report, just as I support the economic governance package as a whole.
The economic and financial crisis has exposed and reinforced the need for coordination and improved surveillance of economic policies within the economic and monetary union.
These recent experiences have also revealed failings and shortcomings in the current system of coordination and in existing surveillance procedures.
The crisis has dramatically reversed the favourable conditions in which the economic and financial sector operated until 2007, and the majority of Member States need to undergo a process of consolidating their accounts to reduce public debt.
For the majority of countries, debt reduction is a crucial issue, given the negative effects that it has on economic incentives, and on the growth of the economy thanks to increased taxes and risk premiums.
This report argues that the Commission and the Council should undertake a balanced comprehensive assessment of all the relevant factors, especially of the extent to which they affect, as aggravating or attenuating circumstances, the assessment of compliance with the deficit and/or debt criteria.
The Council will demand that the Member State meet its annual budgetary targets, which will enable a minimum of a 0.5% increase in gross domestic product per year.
For the above reasons, I voted for this report.
I chose to abstain from the vote on this report on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1467/97 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure.
Although the relationship forged between the economies of individual Member States, and between them and the Union, needs to be reviewed, particularly in the light of what has happened in Greece and of the fact that various other Member States are showing signs of an imminent financial crisis on the same scale as that in Greece, such a review cannot be carried out using the methods presented in this report.
The report seeks to correct the vulnerabilities of national economies by increasing - excessively in my view - the authority of the EU over the Member States themselves, thus sacrificing their freedom and powers in relation to finance.
I therefore cannot vote in favour of this report.
The Feio report is part of the legislative package for reforming economic governance, which consists of six reports resulting from months of negotiations.
Parliament has sent a clear message to everyone, and particularly to the Council.
I therefore hope that this package will be definitively approved before the summer recess and, above all, applied as soon as possible, so that the European Union is not unprepared, as it was in the past, to rise to the challenges threatening its stability.
In particular, I voted in favour of the Feio report because I believe that it correctly emphasises the essential role that Parliament must play in preventing future economic crises.
The text stresses the central importance of the dialogue that Parliament will have to establish with representatives of the national parliaments in order to safeguard the democratic process when issues relating to the EU's economic stability arise.
Furthermore, the report proposes a three-year period in which to bring down the total debt, which I consider reasonable and sufficient.
I voted for the report because I agree that, when it exceeds the reference value, the ratio of the government debt to gross domestic product is to be considered sufficiently diminishing and approaching the reference value at a satisfactory pace in accordance with Article 126(2)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) if the differential with respect to the reference value has decreased over the previous three years at an average rate of one twentieth per year as a benchmark, following an assessment made over a three-year period for which there are data.
The current economic, financial and social crisis has demonstrated that the economic governance model in force in the European Union has not worked: the surveillance framework has shown itself to be very weak and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact have not been respected.
I welcome the call for the process by which the European Commission publishes its recommendations to be sped up.
I agree with the proposal that the European Parliament have the right to invite the representatives of the Member States and I regret that the Council has not accepted it.
I welcome the opportunity granted to the Commission to carry out additional surveillance visits and the fact that the European Central Bank could play a part in those visits.
I decided to vote against four of the six proposals included in the economic governance package as I felt that they contain only austerity measures which would make the European economy even more fragile.
A tighter Stability and Growth Pact, increased requirements for transparency and discipline in the national budgetary frameworks and a new system for preventing economic imbalances are all key elements in the work to stabilise state finances and the financial market.
The fact that we have chosen not to vote in favour of five out of the six reports today is not because we are against stricter regulations.
The purpose of our voting strategy was instead to send a clear signal that certain trends in the package for introducing austerity measures that are far too extensive ought to be exchanged for a more balanced approach in the final negotiating rounds.
Regulations that do not provide sufficient scope for forward-looking investments and sound growth cannot be sustainable in the long term.
The framework to control public debt and private debt should support long-term growth, taking due account of the anti-cyclical role of budgetary policy as well as improving the preconditions for investments and the development of the internal market, which is essential to ensuring the correct functioning and the strengthening of the economic and monetary union.
While it starts from the premise that there is a crisis in the euro area and a need for a comprehensive and integrated solution to the debt crisis in the euro area, given the lack of success of the fragmented approach used until now, the report ends up calling for the same type of monetarist and neoliberal policies and criteria that led to the crisis.
As such, instead of proposing a pact for progress and social development founded on solidarity and on genuine policies of economic and social cohesion, as we have been advocating, it calls for a deepening of the Stability and Growth Pact and, now, the Euro-Plus Pact.
It expands and reinforces application of sanctions and payment of fines for Member States that do not comply with the impositions.
It is the regulation on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure.
As such, instead of proposing a pact for progress and social development founded on solidarity and on genuine policies of economic and social cohesion, it calls for a deepening of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Euro-Plus Pact.
That is why we voted against.
in writing. - (SK) The global economic and financial crisis has revealed and deepened the need for more intensive coordination and better economic governance in the economic and monetary union.
The existing instruments and procedures for coordination and surveillance have enabled the EU to overcome a crisis which no Member State could have overcome alone.
The European institutions and Member States are all striving to recover from the crisis.
This experience, however, has revealed shortcomings and weak points in the current system of coordination and in existing surveillance processes.
It is essential to strengthen the framework of the economic and monetary union with the aim of securing macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances, which are a precondition for sustainable performance and growth in employment.
The individual elements of coordination in the area of economic policy, including surveillance of structural reforms, must be integrated into the new surveillance cycle, the so-called European Semester, which unites the existing processes in the pact with the main aims of economic policies, ensuring that stabilisation and convergence programmes and national reform programmes are submitted concurrently.
in writing. - (EL) The New Democracy group of MEPs voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package.
The European Parliament's proposals pave the way for an environment of economic stability, while at the same time allowing for the development of innovative action mechanisms, such as Eurobonds and European project bonds.
in writing. - (DE) Greater coordination and closer monitoring of economic policy in Member States is essential if we are to learn from the mistakes of the economic and financial crisis and combat the current debt crisis in some Member States.
The debate regarding the enormous deficits in some countries should be noted in Belgium above all, particularly in this transitional period in which Belgium has no government.
This transitional period is extremely problematic because of its major influence on the economy, social policy and the financial sector in Belgium and is not exactly instrumental in improving the situation.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because this regulation sets out provisions to speed up and clarify the excessive deficit procedure.
The objective of the excessive deficit procedure is to prevent excessive government deficits and, if they occur, to further prompt their correction, where compliance with the budgetary discipline is examined on the basis of the government deficit and government debt criteria.
The rules on budgetary discipline should be strengthened, above all by giving a more prominent role to the level and evolution of debt and overall sustainability.
Economic governance should be enhanced by also involving the European Parliament and national parliaments in a more active and timely manner.
in writing. - I voted against this report as I strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the European Union by the centre-right.
This package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the EU at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of Europe.
This financial reform package will hit the poorest in Europe the hardest, while leaving the cause of the crisis - the financial sector - untouched.
Long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and I cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across Europe.
We believe that the enforcement of budgetary surveillance should always be subject to overarching objectives of the EU, and in particular to the requirements related to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion.
In monitoring compliance with the rules on budgetary discipline, consideration should also be given to social downturns which may have an impact on the financial position of governments.
We also maintain that Member States implementing structural reforms which contribute to job preservation or creation and to reduction of poverty should be given the opportunity to deviate from their respective medium-term budgetary objectives.
Lastly, we believe that strengthening economic governance should go hand in hand with reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of European governance, and that the role of the European Parliament should be strengthened in the whole surveillance process.
In addition, regular consultation of the social partners and a stronger involvement of national parliaments are necessary preconditions of a credible and transparent surveillance framework.
This report proposes extending reversed qualified majority voting in order to fine Member States whose policies do not conform to Euro-liberal standards.
in writing. - (DE) Monitoring budgets should not simply involve gaining access to correct facts and figures.
Of course the Commission should also issue recommendations, for example in relation to reducing debt.
European governance is not something the citizens of the EU want, nor is it provided for in the Union's Treaties.
in writing. - (DE) The economic governance proposals are clearly in breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
I have voted against this report because it significantly undermines both European integration and economic and social conditions in the Member States.
in writing. - (LT) The excessive deficit procedure must move more rapidly and promptly, in order to prevent excessive government deficits.
I believe that the rules on budgetary discipline must be strengthened by paying particular attention to the level of debt.
I do not agree with the proposal to reduce the size of the penalty for Member States that failed to implement or did not properly implement actions or instruments to control the deficit.
I believe that the ratio of debt to GDP should be reduced at a 'satisfactory pace'.
In this sense, the differential between current government debt and the 60% reference value should be reduced by one-twentieth per year.
I also agree that the assessment of compliance with this condition should begin three years after the closure of the excessive deficit procedures currently under way.
Above all, I welcome the fact that, when applying the regulation on government debt, the Commission will have to take into account 'all other relevant factors', in particular private debt, and other important factors allowing for an overall assessment to be made.
I hope that Parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the entire governance package as quickly as possible, in order to send a strong and unified message to the public and the markets and to stop speculation.
As part of the legislative package aimed at reinforcing economic governance in the EU and the euro area, there has also been a vote on this draft opinion on the Commission's proposal amending the regulation on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure.
I voted for this report because I essentially share the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards the following points: 1) the enforcement of budgetary surveillance should be subject to the overarching objectives of the EU; 2) in monitoring compliance with the rules on budgetary discipline, consideration should be given, not only to severe economic downturns, but also to social crises that may have an impact on the financial position of governments; 3) fines collected from Member States failing to comply with their respective recommendations should be used in support of the EU's long-term investment and job targets, and not distributed only to the Member States that are not subject to any procedure relating to excessive deficits, as the Commission proposed; 4) regular consultation of the social partners and a stronger involvement of national parliaments are necessary preconditions of a credible and transparent surveillance framework.
Improving the Member States' development and growth plans, optimising the coordination of budgetary policies and strengthening the procedures for monitoring deficits and national debt are just some of the priorities to be pursued.
To achieve these results, however, our efforts need to be fully in line with labour market recovery plans and social protection policies, the cornerstone of a new sustainable growth model.
in writing. - The ECR has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis.
The defects of the Stability and Growth Pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works.
Nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the Commission and endorsed by the Parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro.
It includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of Member States, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments.
Recent events have shown that the various Stability and Growth Pacts did not have the desired effect: instead, several Member States have faced severe problems meeting their obligations and have risked increasing their public debt.
The report adopted in plenary today includes a broader package of measures that constitute the proposals for European economic governance.
Specifically, this report analyses the issue of Member States' excessive debts and considers the problems of the European Union as a whole, not just in the sense of resolving the deficits, but also the level of public debt, so as to ensure that procedures are implemented with a view to correcting the infringement early on and thus prevent corrective measures from being implemented when it is already too late.
The implementation of the measures is essential for the euro area.
With the outcome of the negotiations and the progress made in recent months in trialogue, I hope that we can expect the Commission's recommendations to be published more quickly, and count on genuine economic dialogue.
I hope that the possibility of reviewing the recommendations on the basis of the economic downturns can also contribute to its success, provided that it does not threaten fiscal sustainability.
I am pleased that the rapporteur underlines this fact.
The report includes more, but the most important proposals are to overcome the excessive budget deficit and to finalise means of combating deficits in the future.
The report also touches upon another important aspect - that we must combat the budget deficit without damaging growth, particularly as far as generating the economy is concerned.
The national budgetary frameworks should include the establishment and strengthening of the role of independent fiscal bodies and ensure the publication of transparent fiscal statistics.
Current events show that the European Stability and Growth Pact is not very efficient and has failed to prevent several Member States from encountering serious problems in their balance of payments and in paying off their debt.
In addition to the aid provided to these countries by the EU, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact in order to avoid crises of this kind in the future.
That is the objective of the economic governance package, of which this report by my fellow Member Mrs Ford is a part.
I supported this report, just as I support the economic governance package as a whole.
I abstained from the vote because I have doubts about the long-term impact that the directives proposed in the report will have on the Member States' national economies.
Parliament has sent a clear message to everyone, and particularly to the Council.
I therefore hope that this package will be definitively approved before the summer recess and, above all, applied as soon as possible, so that the European Union is not unprepared, as it was in the past, to rise to the challenges threatening its stability.
In particular, I voted in favour of the Ford report because I believe that harmonising national systems through the development of minimum requirements and, above all, forecasting plans for public accounting systems is a basic rule if we want to prevent economic crises in future.
This should not mean, however, that we overlook the national nature of fiscal regulations, which contain some considerable differences, especially between countries within and outside the euro area.
I voted for the report because I agree that the Member States should establish an authoritatively scrutinised, effective medium-term budgetary framework providing for the adoption of a fiscal planning horizon of at least four years to ensure that national fiscal planning is part of a multiannual fiscal planning perspective.
Member States should establish appropriate mechanisms of coordination across subsectors of general government, to provide for comprehensive and consistent coverage of all subsectors in fiscal planning, numerical fiscal rules, specific to each country, and in the preparation of budgetary forecasts, and setting up multiannual planning as laid down in the multiannual budgetary framework, in particular.
The current economic, financial and social crisis has demonstrated that the European Union's current economic governance model has not worked: the surveillance framework has shown itself to be very weak and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact have not been respected.
I am voting for the Ford report on requirements for budgetary frameworks of the Member States.
I welcome the possibility that governments that have just come to power might have the right to update their budgetary framework in the medium term to reflect new political priorities.
I voted in favour of this directive because I believe it has succeeded in striking the right balance between rigour, which is a requirement in this area, and discretion, connected to the economic situation.
If we really want to prevent future crises; if we want to create a cohesive and responsible economic Union; if we want to be guided by a perspective of prevention and correction; if we want to commit to sustainable growth then, for this package to be complete, this directive was essential.
In this directive we find a series of fundamental premises whose application by national governments will make their budgetary policy rules more transparent, not least as regards publication of budgetary forecasts and performance.
Finally, I should like to thank my colleague, Mrs Ford, for all her efforts and commitment towards concluding this report.
This report, drafted by Mrs Ford, is on the legislative proposal for amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/97 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure, which is part of the economic governance package, adopted by the Commission on 29 September 2010, seeking to 'anchor macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances' so as to make the EU more robust and sustainable.
The current economic and financial situation of various EU countries demonstrates the failure of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The measures for coordination and surveillance that ensure respect for budgetary discipline will be reinforced.
I voted for this proposal for a legislative amendment, since I believe it is crucial for the recovery of public confidence in the institutions and for sustainable growth in the EU that these measures be implemented as soon as possible.
This report is on the proposal for a directive on requirements for budgetary frameworks of the Member States, and constitutes one of the most serious attacks on their sovereignty.
The situation is particularly serious for the most vulnerable economies of the euro area, which are considered to have 'excessive deficits' and could be subjected to severe sanctions.
From now on, the members of the national parliaments will be governed by guidelines from the European Union on their countries' budgets.
These guidelines are increasingly neoliberal and determined, essentially, by the directorate of powers that hold the majority of votes in the Council and European Parliament.
This is one of two reports on the proposal for a directive on requirements for budgetary frameworks of the Member States.
It constitutes one of the most serious attacks on their sovereignty, and this situation will be even worse for those in the euro area considered to have excessive deficits, which, in addition to continuous surveillance by the European Commission, could be subject to sanctions.
The result of the negotiations is the final agreement between the three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission - and it will surely be confirmed by the Council of 24 June, despite the contradictions existing at EU level.
The intended outcome is an unprecedented attack on the rights of the national parliaments and on the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, whose members are governed by guidelines from the European Union on their countries' budgets; these guidelines are increasingly neoliberal.
in writing. - (SK) The global economic and financial crisis sharply reversed the favourable economic and financial conditions prevailing up to 2007, and again emphasised the fact that proper use was not made of the unforeseen profits that were accumulated in the favourable period to create an opportunity for effective procedures in the unfavourable period.
The availability of fiscal data is essential to the proper functioning of EU budgetary surveillance.
Timely and reliable fiscal data are essential for proper and well-timed monitoring, making it possible to adopt prompt measures in case of an unfavourable budgetary situation.
in writing. - (EL) The New Democracy group of MEPs voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package.
The European Parliament's proposals pave the way for an environment of economic stability, while at the same time allowing for the development of innovative action mechanisms, such as Eurobonds and European project bonds.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because the economic governance package is aimed at responding to the need for greater coordination and closer surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union.
In general, I welcome the proposals put forward to ensure improvements in national fiscal frameworks and to encourage Member States to make better fiscal decisions in the future.
Likewise, proposals for independent budgetary offices, national fiscal rules, and mandatory multi-year budgeting should also help provide greater fiscal stability.
in writing. - I voted against this report as I strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the European Union by the centre-right.
This package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the EU at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of Europe.
I welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in Europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed.
Long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and I cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across Europe.
The Commission proposes to reinforce Member States' compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact, deepen fiscal policy coordination, set minimum requirements for fiscal frameworks and specify the mechanisms for enforcing the current rules.
We welcome the proposal put forward to ensure improvements in national fiscal frameworks and to encourage Member States to make better fiscal decisions in the future.
Likewise, we support the establishment of independent budgetary offices, national fiscal rules and mandatory multi-year budgeting to provide greater economic and monetary stability.
We believe that the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should not only ensure that fiscal planning of Member States is based on realistic forecasts, but should also ensure that appropriate attention is given to the sustainability of their respective social protection systems, including pension and health care systems.
Lastly, we believe that the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should be designed in such a way as to encourage Member States and leave them room for manoeuvre for development-oriented public investments, such as in education and training, contributing to the achievement of the EU's growth and employment objectives.
This report shows approval for this state of affairs, to which a majority in Parliament contributed by voting for the introduction of the European Semester.
I am voting against this report.
in writing. - (DE) The intention behind the report - ensuring budgetary discipline in the Member States - is to be welcomed.
in writing. - (DE) In future, compliance with the Maastricht criteria is to be enforced though early warnings and drastic penalties.
For this reason, I have not voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (LT) The coordination and surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union must be efficient and effective.
In order to achieve this objective, fiscal responsibility must be encouraged among the Member States.
We urgently need to set at least minimum requirements for national frameworks and to ensure the effectiveness of the excessive deficit procedure.
I believe that it is appropriate for medium-term budgetary frameworks to include procedures for establishing an opinion as to how the proposed measures will affect the long-term sustainability of the public finances.
Within the context of the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact and in the light of the various innovations introduced and of the greater collaboration between European institutions, national parliaments and governments, the Ford report on requirements for budgetary frameworks is vital since it sets minimum requirements for public accounting systems, central and local public finance statistics and multiannual planning.
Also as part of the legislative package aimed at reinforcing economic governance in the EU and the euro area, there has been a vote on this draft opinion on requirements for budgetary frameworks of the Member States.
I voted for this report because I essentially share the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards amendments pertaining to the following key issues: 1) the general aim of this proposal should be linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion; 2) rules put forward to ensure improvements in national budgetary frameworks should be established in the context of the European Semester for policy coordination; 3) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should not only ensure that Member States' fiscal planning is based on realistic forecasts, but should also ensure that appropriate attention is given to the sustainability of their respective social protection systems, including health care and pension systems; and, finally, 4) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should also be designed in such a way as to encourage Member States to achieve the EU's growth and jobs objectives.
Although it acknowledges the importance and necessity of our having independent statistics authorities able to produce reliable and credible data on a Member State's macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts, I voted against this report because the punitive thinking behind it slots perfectly into a wider package to which I am opposed, for the reasons already expressed in the reports on this economic coordination.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted in favour of this report as it involves improved harmonisation between macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts, the introduction of numerical fiscal and fiscal consolidation rules, the introduction of a framework on main medium-term expenditure categories, greater requirements for accountancy and statistics and, lastly, greater transparency in general requirements on finance and the overall goal of the budget.
in writing. - The ECR has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis.
The defects of the Stability and Growth Pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works.
We have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the Parliament's preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting.
Nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the Commission and endorsed by the Parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro.
So while we endorse the long term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
Current events show that the European Stability and Growth Pact is not very efficient and has failed to prevent several Member States from encountering serious problems in their balance of payments and in paying off their debt.
In addition to the aid provided to these countries by the EU, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact in order to avoid crises of this kind in the future.
That is the objective of the economic governance package, of which this report by my fellow Member Mrs Goulard is a part.
Some of Mrs Goulard's initial proposals, the creation of a European Monetary Fund in particular, were not retained during the trialogues.
I believe that the balance achieved by the Commission and the Council on this report is satisfactory, and I therefore supported it, just as I support the economic governance packaged as a whole.
Parliament has sent a clear message to everyone, and particularly to the Council.
I therefore hope that this package will be definitively approved before the summer recess and, above all, applied as soon as possible, so that the European Union is not unprepared, as it was in the past, to rise to the challenges threatening its stability.
In particular, I voted in favour of the Goulard report because I believe it is important to lay down criteria but also, and above all, to establish mechanisms for monitoring those criteria.
I voted for this report because I agree that the Council should be able, after debating a Commission recommendation, to impose a fine on any Member State that distorts, whether intentionally or through grave negligence, figures relating to the deficit and public debt relevant to the application of Articles 121 and 126 of the Treaty, and to the Protocol (No 12) annexed to the Treaty.
The interest earned by the Commission on deposits lodged in accordance with Article 4 and the fines collected in accordance with Article 5 and 6a should constitute other revenue referred to in Article 311 of the Treaty, and will be allocated to the European Financial Stability Facility.
I welcome provision for fines in the case of falsified statistics, so as to penalise fraud relating to deficit and debt calculation, both inside and outside the euro area.
I should like to emphasise what I consider to be this report's most significant step forward: the possibility of creating a system that is not just based on the sanctions aspect of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), but that, by contrast, enables the introduction of real incentives that lead to and develop a genuine will in the governments of the Member States to comply with the rules laid down in the SGP.
I should also like to stress the extraordinary work undertaken here, with the institutionalisation of economic dialogue among the various European institutions, as well as the promotion of participation by national parliaments and governments in a genuine democratic debate about economic policy.
This report, drafted by Mrs Goulard, is on the legislative proposal for amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/97, on budgetary surveillance in the euro area, which is part of the economic governance package, adopted by the Commission on 29 September 2010, seeking to 'anchor macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances' so as to make the EU more robust and sustainable.
The current economic and financial situation of various EU countries demonstrates the failure of the Stability and Growth Pact.
It is now also becoming necessary to introduce mechanisms that improve competitiveness and restore public finances.
The Member States will see the coordination and surveillance mechanisms reinforced in order to prevent any serious errors from being made with their budgetary policy that could threaten economic and monetary union.
Since I believe there is a need for rapid, quality solutions in line with the recommendations of the European Central Bank, I voted for this proposal for a legislative amendment, which, in addition to encouraging interinstitutional dialogue, strengthens budgetary discipline and obliges each Member State or institution to accept its responsibilities.
The report acknowledges the problems and mistakes during the first decade of economic and monetary union, but does not draw the necessary conclusions, instead calling for a 'more robust' framework for surveillance of national economic policies by the Commission and Council.
This is also reinforced, however, by an attempt to legitimise the system of sanctions, with an attempt to include a system of incentives.
All of this is done without considering the real causes of the problems or the alternative policies that are needed: that is unacceptable.
It is on the regulation on the effective enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area.
Whilst it acknowledges the problems and mistakes during the first decade of economic and monetary union, it pushes blindly ahead, calling for a 'more robust' framework for surveillance of national economic policies by the Commission and Council.
That is, it ends up calling for the same type of monetarist and neoliberal policies and criteria, tightening the veritable stranglehold imposed on the Member States, without a care for the causes of the problems, or for alternative policies that take into account economies' different levels of development.
This is also reinforced, however, by an attempt to legitimise the system of sanctions, with an attempt to include a system of incentives.
That is why we voted against.
in writing. - (SK) In June 2010 the European Council agreed that it was urgently necessary to strengthen the coordination of our economic policies.
This agreement included above all the Growth and Stability Pact (GSP) and budgetary surveillance.
This mainly involved strengthening the preventive and corrective parts of the GSP, and ensuring that all Member States had national budgetary rules and a medium-term budgetary framework that were in line with the GSP.
The Member States using the euro as their currency have a particular interest in and responsibility for implementing economic policies that support the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, and for not applying policies that threaten it.
The sanctions for Member States using the euro as their currency should, in the preventive part of the GSP, provide a stimulus for the prudent drafting of fiscal policy.
in writing. - (EL) The New Democracy group of MEPs voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package.
The European Parliament's proposals pave the way for an environment of economic stability, while at the same time allowing for the development of innovative action mechanisms, such as Eurobonds and European project bonds.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because in the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact, the adjustment and adherence to the medium-term budgetary objective should be ensured through an obligation to lodge an interest-bearing deposit temporarily imposed on a Member State whose currency is the euro that is making insufficient progress with budgetary consolidation.
This should be the case when a Member State, even with a deficit below the 3% of GDP reference value, deviates significantly from the medium-term budgetary objective or the appropriate adjustment path towards it and fails to correct the deviation.
The non-interest-bearing deposit should be released upon correction of the excessive deficit while the interest on such deposits and the fines collected should be assigned to stability mechanisms to provide financial assistance, created by Member States whose currency is the euro in order to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole.
in writing. - I voted against this report as I strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the European Union by the centre-right.
This package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the EU at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of Europe.
I welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in Europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed.
Long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and I cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across Europe.
This opinion relates to the proposal for a regulation on the effective enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area.
We believe that the enforcement of budgetary surveillance should always be subject to overarching objectives of the EU and, in particular, to the requirements of Article 9 TFEU relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion.
In order to enhance budgetary surveillance, an enforcement system should be composed not only of fines (sanctions) but also incentives, thereby strengthening the role of the European Parliament and the national parliaments alike.
Lastly, we maintain that the fines collected from the Member States which fail to comply with their respective recommendations should be used in support of the EU's long-term investment and job targets.
This report makes it clear what kind of sanctions await Member States which do not bend to the commands of the European Commission.
in writing. - (DE) The stability criteria were not respected in the past.
I believe that macroeconomic imbalances in the EU and in the euro area can only be effectively redressed by splitting the euro into two currency zones.
Further planned rescue packages are not required merely out of a sense of fairness and will lead to major difficulties in the northern EU Member States in the future.
in writing. - (DE) I seriously doubt that the Stability and Growth Pact, which has failed to work so far, will suddenly become a panacea in one of the most difficult economic phases in the history of the EU.
Moreover, dipping into national treasuries and using taxpayers' money to save budgetary delinquents is very unfair.
I therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - (LT) I believe that appropriate financial sanctions should be imposed on Member States which fail to comply with the fiscal framework of the Union.
There must be a gradual differentiation of sanctions in the preventive and corrective parts of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Furthermore, the Commission will be given the right to recommend reducing the size of a sanction or to cancel it on grounds of exceptional economic circumstances.
In order to implement an effective budgetary surveillance framework, it is very important for the Commission to present the European Parliament and the Council with a report on the possibility of introducing Eurosecurities.
This is an important requirement for ensuring that the new framework established under the economic governance reform is credible and effective.
I voted for this report because I essentially share the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards amendments pertaining to the following key issues: 1) the enforcement of budgetary surveillance should always be subject to requirements related to the promotion of a high level of employment; 2) the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion; 3) enhanced budgetary surveillance through an enforcement system should be composed not only of fines - sanctions - but also incentives; 4) a strengthened role for the European Parliament, as well as that of national parliaments, throughout the entire surveillance process.
This report provides for the Member States to lodge interest-bearing deposits or pay fines, as part of the preventive and corrective parts of the Stability and Growth Pact.
I am voting against for these reasons.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance tried to introduce key amendments asking for the use of Eurobonds, fiscal convergence and the application of a cap on financial sanctions and other incentives.
These amendments were not adopted and the report ended up being nothing more than a list of sanctions on those countries that do not adhere to their budget.
Thus I have voted against.
At a time of widespread economic crisis such as we are experiencing now, the need for effective enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area is a priority.
Such surveillance must, however, take place without any change to the fundamental objectives of promoting a high level of employment, guaranteeing adequate social protection and stepping up the fight against social exclusion.
The European Parliament and the national parliaments ultimately play a crucial role in the achievement of this ambitious objective, and their role must therefore be strengthened throughout the surveillance process, at national and international level alike.
in writing. - As my group's shadow Rapporteur I would like to congratulate Mrs Goulard on the adoption of her report and to thank her for the good co-operation between us throughout these difficult negotiations.
I chose to abstain on this report and on the proposed amendment on fiscal convergence.
Because of my position as S&amp;D group shadow Rapporteur on this report I could not join my colleagues from the Maltese delegation in voting against the amendment tabled by my group on fiscal convergence.
We need to have better co-ordination of economic policy but taxation policy must remain in the hands of Member States.
in writing. - The ECR has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis.
The defects of the Stability and Growth Pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works.
We have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the Parliament's preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting.
Nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the Commission and endorsed by the Parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro.
So while we endorse the long term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
in writing. - (NL) I voted with conviction in favour of the compromise package on economic governance as negotiated by us with the Council.
Nonetheless, my group and I still harbour reservations about some points, in particular when it comes to realising the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The package reflects a precarious political balance that I do not want to put at risk.
For that reason I voted against some of the amendments.
I am referring, in particular, to Amendment 9, which argues for convergence in the fiscal sphere.
The enhancement of economic governance must be based on a robust framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks, enhanced financial market regulation and supervision, and a credible, permanent crisis resolution mechanism.
I think that coherence is required among policies aimed at growth and creating sustainable jobs, with a particular focus on the development and strengthening of the internal market, fostering international trade and competitiveness and providing an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budgetary positions.
Current events show that the European Stability and Growth Pact is not very efficient and has failed to prevent several Member States from encountering serious problems in their balance of payments and in paying off their debt.
In addition to the aid provided to these countries by the EU, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact in order to avoid crises of this kind in the future.
The report deals with the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies.
The discussion with regard to this report has focused on the issue of the reversed qualified majority voting mechanism - which means that the Commission's recommendations will come into effect unless opposed by a qualified majority of the Council - as well as the review clause.
I supported these two mechanisms during the vote because I am convinced that we must be demanding and ambitious in order to improve budgetary stability in Europe and thus to safeguard our future.
The coordination of the Member States' economic policies, in line with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, involves observance of the following guiding principles: stable prices, robust public finances and monetary conditions, and a sustainable balance of payments.
The aim is to lay down rules regulating the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability programmes and convergence programmes, as part of the multilateral surveillance to be carried out by the Commission and the Council at an early stage.
The intention is to prevent budget deficits and excessive debt occurring, and to promote the surveillance and coordination of economic policy, so supporting the achievement of the Union's objectives regarding growth and jobs.
The European Parliament shall be duly involved in the European Semester in order to increase transparency, ownership and accountability for the decisions taken, specifically through economic dialogue.
in writing. - (NL) The EU and the euro are in turbulent times and we need a rapid and structural resolution to the problems in Greece.
Bolstered EU supervision of the economic and budgetary policy of the 27 Member States is an essential prerequisite for the continued existence of the euro.
I say that because the result of this is that not only will the governments have to ensure healthy finances, but Europe will also be able to hold them to account if they fail to invest adequately in training and education, jobs and combating poverty.
This package will drastically improve the economic competitiveness and financial health of the EU.
This report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies is part of an EU economic governance package.
This report, like the other, similar reports included in the package, directly refers to the recent financial crisis in Greece and sets the objective of creating a regulatory framework to prevent the repetition of similar crises.
On the one hand, the need to strengthen coordination and especially financial monitoring of Member States appears obvious, given the seriousness of the Greek crisis and its repercussions for the other Member States.
The Wortmann-Kool report is part of the legislative package for reforming economic governance, which consists of six reports resulting from months of negotiations.
Parliament has sent a clear message to everyone, and particularly to the Council.
I therefore hope that this package will be definitively approved before the summer recess and, above all, applied as soon as possible, so that the European Union is not unprepared, as it was in the past, to rise to the challenges threatening its stability.
In particular, I voted in favour of the Wortmann-Kool report because I believe that the European Union needs a solid foundation on which to prevent crises similar to the one we have just been through in the future.
I voted for the report because I agree that, in order to ensure closer coordination of economic policy and sustained convergence of the behaviours of Member States' economies, the Council should go ahead with multilateral supervision as an integral part of the European Semester for the coordination of economic policy, in line with the objectives and requirements provided for in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Parliament shall be duly involved in the European Semester, in order to increase transparency, ownership and accountability of the decisions taken, specifically through economic dialogue.
I agree that the Economic and Financial Committee, the Economic Policy Committee, the Employment Committee and the Social Protection Committee should be consulted within the framework of the European Semester wherever deemed appropriate, and that the relevant stakeholders, in particular the social partners, should be involved in the European Semester as regards the main political issues, wherever appropriate, in accordance with the TFEU, with the law and with national policies.
The current economic, financial and social crisis has demonstrated that the European Union's current economic governance model has not worked: the surveillance framework has shown itself to be very weak and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) have not been respected.
I therefore support the package of measures that the European Commission has tabled on economic governance.
I am voting for the Wortmann-Kool report on strengthening budgetary surveillance and coordination of economic policies.
I agree with reversed qualified majority voting, which reinforces the role of the European Commission by demanding a qualified majority in the Council in order to derogate from the Commission's decision.
I think the 'economic dialogue' provided for here is very important, as is the clear, necessary link with the European Semester.
We can take two important lessons from the recent crisis: the need for sustainable public finances, and the urgent need to work towards increased coordination of economic policy between the Member States, with an emphasis on prevention.
I would immediately stress the importance of including the European Semester in this legislative text, so as to gradually provide an effective platform for joint political discussion of the budgetary policies adopted by all the Member States, which will favour a robust and balanced economic union.
I would stress the crucial importance of EU Member States' public finances being in order, as well as the need to adopt increasingly responsible economic policies that ensure stability and growth.
Finally, I should like to thank Mrs Wortmann-Kool, a colleague from my group, for her exemplary work whilst negotiating and concluding this package.
This report, drafted by Mrs Wortmann-Kool, is on a legislative proposal on economic governance, adopted by the Commission on 29 September 2010, on the surveillance of budgetary positions, and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies, which is part of the economic governance package, adopted by the Commission on 29 September 2010, seeking to 'anchor macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances'.
The strengthened framework for economic governance should promote growth and employment, with particular focus on developing and strengthening the single market, and on fostering international trade and competitiveness.
The strengthening of economic governance should be accompanied by the reinforcement of the democratic legitimacy of economic governance in the Union, which should be achieved through the increased participation of the European Parliament and the national parliaments in all processes of economic policy coordination.
The Stability and Growth Pact and the entire framework for economic governance should be compatible with the Union's strategy for growth and jobs, and should complete it.
I voted for this proposal for a legislative amendment, whose definitive text I hope to see adopted during Parliament's July plenary sitting.
In this case, it aims to strengthen surveillance of budgetary positions, and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies.
In practice, this regulation lays down the rules regulating the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability programmes and convergence programmes, as part of the multilateral surveillance that the Commission and Council want to carry out at an early stage; the argument being to prevent budget deficits and excessive debt occurring, and to promote the surveillance and coordination of economic policy.
Solidarity and economic and social cohesion are nothing more than empty words: dead letters in the Treaties.
It is dominated by monetarist and neoliberal policies in the interest of guaranteeing greater profits for large companies and financial institutions.
It must be acknowledged, once and for all, that the policies in force, that they now want to deepen, are the fundamental cause of the crisis.
This is part of the package of six legislative texts on economic governance and aims to strengthen surveillance of budgetary positions, and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies.
In practice, this regulation lays down the rules regulating the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability programmes and convergence programmes, as part of the multilateral surveillance that the Commission and Council want to carry out at an early stage; the argument being to prevent budget deficits and excessive debt occurring, and to promote the surveillance and coordination of economic policy.
It is always argued that the objective is growth and employment, but, as they have forgotten policies of solidarity, and of economic and social cohesion, committing only to monetarist and neoliberal policies in the interests of guaranteeing greater profits for large companies and financial institutions, what we will have is more social inequality, more unemployment and more poverty, as the cases of Greece, Ireland and Portugal have already shown.
Until Europe's leaders acknowledge that their policies are the fundamental cause of the crises that persist, we will witness a degradation of the economic, social and political situation, which will inevitably cause further social tension and more conflicts... (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (SK) The recent global economic and financial crisis has revealed and deepened the need for better coordination and improved surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union.
Shortcomings and weak points persist in the current system of coordination and in existing surveillance processes.
It is essential to strengthen the framework of the economic and monetary union with the aim of securing macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances.
Most Member States will have a vital need for substantial consolidation in order to return to a trend of declining public debt.
The problems are all the more urgent, however, given that European societies and economies are facing the consequences of an ageing population, which could put even greater pressure on labour supply and the budgets of public finances.
The coordination of the economic policies of Member States within an EU framework should above all include adherence to a sustainable balance of payments and the need for public investments.
in writing. - (EL) The New Democracy group of MEPs voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package.
The European Parliament's proposals pave the way for an environment of economic stability, while at the same time allowing for the development of innovative action mechanisms, such as Eurobonds and European project bonds.
Europe needs stronger and more Community-based economic governance.
However, the package of measures being voted on today wrongly reflects the tendency of the current centre-right majority to view governance as a mere austerity exercise, by strengthening the preventive and corrective dimension of the Stability and Growth Pact without outlining mechanisms and instruments for supporting investment and development.
That is why we will vote against this and the other reports on fiscal surveillance.
Moreover, we will fight to take European economic policy in a different direction and, at the same time, to strengthen the Community method and the EU's instruments and resources.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because the economic and financial crisis has exposed the need to review the framework for the economic and monetary union (EMU) in order to enforce the existing instruments and to broaden the procedures for coordination and multilateral surveillance.
In addition, regular consultation with social partners and the involvement of national parliaments are necessary preconditions for a credible and transparent surveillance framework.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, but I think we should have been clearer and stronger in our demands when it comes to the mechanism of sanctions and penalties.
The current line stays vague and does not express clearly that in case of a breach, sanctions must follow automatically, without being subject to political bargaining.
Although the role of the Commission is strengthened, the report should clearly support the reversed qualified majority voting as planned in the first place to ensure independent and fast procedure of applying needed measures.
I welcome in overall the call for greater transparency and involvement of European Parliament and national parliaments.
All actors have to be fully involved and informed at all stages to ensure preventing problems and finding solutions at earliest moment possible.
in writing. - I voted against this report as I strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the European Union by the centre-right.
This package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the EU at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of Europe.
We support the proposal to reinforce Member States' compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact and to encourage greater coordination of their fiscal policies.
The framework for budgetary surveillance and for the coordination of EU economic policies should be broadened so as to include employment and social aspects.
As regards, on the other hand, the stability and convergence programmes of the Member States, these should include information on the consistency of the Member States' budgetary objectives with the EU's growth and jobs strategy, and the Employment Committee and the Social Protection Committee should be consulted during every surveillance procedure.
We also think it extremely important that the strengthening of economic governance go hand in hand with reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of European governance.
I am voting against this report, which I condemn.
in writing. - (DE) The planned measures do not provide for obligatory participation by the banks.
As the example of Iceland shows, orderly state bankruptcy can be the right answer.
In view of the impotence of the political players, their inability to recognise cause and effect and their unwillingness to accept responsibility, it seems that this culture could also come to an end through Greece.
I have voted against this report.
in writing. - (LT) The strengthening of economic governance should go hand in hand with reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of European governance.
We must make every effort to ensure that we achieve macroeconomic stability and sustainability in public finance.
In order to ensure strengthened coordination of Member States' economic policies and actions, it is necessary to broaden the procedures for coordination and multilateral surveillance.
We must continuously monitor how convergence programmes and the economic policies of Member States with a derogation are implemented in line with convergence programme objectives.
May I first offer my sincerest congratulations to Mrs Wortmann-Kool on the work she has done on the economic governance package.
Parliament's goal must be to prevent the intergovernmental method from being used, but we must look at things from an overall perspective and, without watering down the regulation, find solutions to ensure that the Commission's independence is guaranteed and that Parliament can be an actor and not just a spectator in the process, reaching a mutual agreement with the Council.
I hope, in fact, that Parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the entire governance package as quickly as possible, in order to send a strong and unified message to the public and the markets and to stop speculation.
As part of the legislative package aimed at reinforcing the economic governance in the EU and the euro area, there has also been a vote on this draft opinion on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies.
I voted for this report because I essentially share the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards amendments pertaining to the following key issues: 1) the EU's framework for budgetary surveillance should be broadened so as to include employment and social aspects; 2) the guidelines for Member States' employment policies should be taken into account when they present their respective stability and convergence programmes, as well as during the examination of those programmes; 3) the multilateral surveillance of the stability and convergence programmes should be conducted as part of the European Semester; and 4) the stability and convergence programmes of the Member States should include information on the consistency of the Member States' budgetary objectives with the EU's growth and jobs strategy, such as the Europe 2020 strategy, and in particular with the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines and the Guidelines for the Employment Policies.
This report aims to ensure that the Member States will comply with the deficit and debt limits set out in the Stability and Growth Pact.
I am voting against it for two main reasons: because the pact it aims to regulate is responsible for a decade of mediocre growth in Europe, and because its disciplinary measures are founded on sanctions that aggravate the problems it aims to solve.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted against as this report tries to solve the public deficit exclusively through adjustments in public spending.
This report implies that fiscal consolidation is prioritised over the long term sustainability objectives and the European Union's objectives of job creation, combating poverty and social cohesion.
Furthermore, it lacks the incentives to achieve the medium-term growth objectives and it focuses exclusively on the system of sanctions.
I believe the Stability and Growth Pact should be updated and fiscal policy coordination improved in order to strengthen surveillance of national budgets and ensure that Member States take 'prudent' decisions in good times for the economy, building up the necessary buffer for the bad times.
Lastly, I welcome the proposal to set specific requirements for national fiscal frameworks, strengthening the enforcement mechanisms for the euro area Member States.
in writing. - (NL) Today, Parliament decided its position on European economic governance.
The European Union needs stricter European economic supervision and a reform of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Fiscal consolidation must be teamed with government investment and other collective spending if we want to create more jobs and avoid excessive socio-economic instability.
I therefore voted against the Wortmann-Kool, Feio and Goulard reports.
The Group Of The Greens/European Free Alliance advocates a macroeconomic approach whereby the balances of trade of the different Member States would have to be better aligned.
Economic measures need to be placed in a broader framework incorporating other elements such as solidarity and responsibility.
I also voted in favour of the Ferreira, Haglund and Ford reports.
in writing. - The ECR has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis.
The defects of the Stability and Growth Pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works.
We have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the Parliament's preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting.
Nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the Commission and endorsed by the Parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro.
It includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of Member States, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments.
So while we endorse the long term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
The economic and financial crisis that has rocked the euro area has threatened the instruments of economic and monetary union, and demonstrated the harmful consequences of asymmetric shocks and systemic risk, in a monetary area that is not considered optimum.
Furthermore, it institutionalises the European Semester through the need for the involvement of all the European institutions, where national reform programmes should incorporate EU objectives.
I should also like to stress that it seeks to expand the mechanism of reversed qualified majority voting in the Council to all stages of the process of assessing, examining and monitoring the Stability and Growth Pact and national convergence programmes.
I am voting for this report because I believe the EU needs to send a message of stability to the markets, using a short- and long-term economic governance strategy.
The sovereign debt crisis rocking the EU - in particular the three countries already bailed out, not least Portugal - will only be overcome with concerted decisions and increased involvement of the EU institutions, in particular Parliament and the Commission.
in writing. - The economic governance package approved by a right-wing majority in the European Parliament will risk entrenching austerity in EU law.
Right-wing governments are trying to push through a number of economic policies that cut deficits in the short term but provide no hope for economic growth in countries in the long term.
Improved coordination on economic policy is without doubt a good idea for Europe's long-term growth.
in writing. - Dear President, I abstained on the vote on the Wortmann-Kool and the Feio reports which look to revise the Stability and Growth Pact.
I am glad that the reports are strong on the need to avoid debts and deficits, and they have certainly been drafted according to an economic philosophy that I support.
I voted in favour of the report presented by Mrs Wortmann-Kool.
It is important to stress that, according to Mrs Wortmann-Kool's report, Parliament's role will involve requesting and conducting hearings of the President of the Euro Group.
Current events show that the European Stability and Growth Pact is not very efficient and has failed to prevent several Member States from encountering serious problems in their balance of payments and in paying off their debt.
In addition to the aid provided to these countries by the EU, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact in order to avoid crises of this kind in the future.
I supported this report, just as I support the economic governance package as a whole.
The Commission's proposals on improving economic governance are of the highest importance for the future of the EU and for economic growth.
Therefore, the framework for economic governance must be improved, and it must be founded on increased national appropriation of the rules and policies adopted, and on more robust EU-level monitoring of national economic policies.
This report, for which I voted, advocates the need for Member States to create accounting systems that fully and consistently cover all sectors of public administration.
The aim of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on enforcement measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area is to draw up an action plan for preventing new economic crises of the kind that recently befell Greece, and in this way it supplements a series of other reports presented in the same economic governance package.
The general aim of the report, namely to strengthen coordination between EU economies, is undoubtedly a good one, but the same cannot be said of the mechanisms that are meant to achieve it.
In fact, the report, like the other, similar reports included in the economic governance package, essentially proposes to strengthen central surveillance and monitoring of individual Member States' economies, which would gradually and consistently weaken the role and the freedom of national economies themselves.
The Haglund report is part of the legislative package for reforming economic governance, which consists of six reports resulting from months of negotiations.
Parliament has sent a clear message to everyone, and particularly to the Council.
I therefore hope that this package will be definitively approved before the summer recess and, above all, applied as soon as possible, so that the European Union is not unprepared, as it was in the past, to rise to the challenges threatening its stability.
In particular, I voted in favour of the Haglund report because I believe that in future we will have to avoid repeating past mistakes, and will have to rule out the possibility of some countries in the euro area violating the stability rules that will be adopted.
Therefore, I believe that the system of yearly fines for non-compliance with these rules, as proposed in the report, should be supported and, above all, strictly applied.
I voted for the report because I agree that the Commission should publish a report on the application of this regulation three years after it comes into force, and then every five years subsequently.
The current economic, financial and social crisis has demonstrated that the European Union's current economic governance model has not worked: the surveillance framework has shown itself to be very weak and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact have not been respected.
I therefore support the package of measures that the European Commission has tabled on economic governance.
I am voting for the Haglund report on enforcement measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances.
I agree with reversed qualified majority voting and regret that the Council continues to oppose this mechanism.
The procedure provided for in this report is totally new to the framework of Union law, and I believe it will go on to play an indispensible role in the Member States' future macroeconomic policies.
I would also stress the introduction of the reversed qualified majority rule in the Council when decisions are being taken that are essential to the proper functioning of this package.
The regulation on enforcement measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area is another key piece of the legislative package on economic governance.
This regulation addresses a system of sanctions and the application of fines to any Member States not fulfilling the requirements imposed by the European Commission on the basis of the delegated acts.
What we have before us is a process of intervention that calls for the application of the same type of monetarist and neoliberal policies and criteria that led to the current crisis, particularly affecting the most vulnerable economies.
The stranglehold imposed on the Member States is being tightened, without a care for the causes of the problems, or for alternative policies that take into account economies' different levels of development.
Although the proposal initially only covers Member States whose currency is the euro, the European Parliament is seeking its application to any Member State that has notified the Commission that it wishes to apply this regulation, even if it is not a member of the euro area.
The intention is to expand the application of sanctions and the payment of fines to any Member State not complying with the impositions that have been laid down, placing them in a genuinely submissive position with regard to the European institutions and to the directory of powers that are, essentially, in charge of them... (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) This is the regulation on enforcement measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area, and is yet another key piece of legislation in the package on economic governance.
This regulation is concerned, above all, with a system of sanctions and the application of fines to any Member States not fulfilling the requirements imposed by the European Commission on the basis of the delegated acts.
Although the proposal initially only covers Member States whose currency is the euro, the European Parliament is seeking its application to any Member State that has notified the Commission that it wishes to apply this regulation, even if it is not a member of the euro area.
It is yet another interventionist measure that calls for the application of the same type of monetarist and neoliberal policies and criteria, tightening the veritable stranglehold imposed on the Member States, without a care for the causes of the problems, or for alternative policies that take into account economies' different levels of development.
What it does is expand the application of sanctions and the payment of fines for any Member State not complying with the requirements imposed on it, placing them in a genuinely submissive position with regard to the European institutions, just so as to serve the interests of large companies and financial institutions... (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (SK) The existence of large macroeconomic imbalances, including extensive and persistent differences in competitiveness trends, was looking very harmful for the EU at the moment when the crisis hit, and especially for the euro.
It is therefore important to create a new structured approach in order to prevent an undesirable macroeconomic imbalance in all Member States and to correct it.
The Europe 2020 strategy establishes an ambitious and comprehensive strategy for ensuring the intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth of the EU economy.
In the context of the crisis, this strategy designates new areas that must be focused on in addressing the weak sides of Europe within the framework for the surveillance of macro-financial and structural problems.
For this reason, it is essential, in my opinion, to have a mechanism for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances and, if necessary, to ensure that adequate corrective measures are adopted for them.
The European Parliament's proposals pave the way for an environment of economic stability, while at the same time allowing for the development of innovative action mechanisms, such as Eurobonds and European project bonds.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because enforcement of the Regulation on macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area should be strengthened by establishing interest-bearing deposits, if a Member State has failed to comply with the recommendations and has not taken the corrective action recommended by the Council, which are converted into a yearly fine in cases of repetitive non-compliance with the recommendations to address excessive macroeconomic imbalances.
These enforcement measures apply to Member States whose currency is the euro.
In order to ensure equal treatment between Member States, the interest-bearing deposit and the fine should be identical for all Member States whose currency is the euro and equal to 0.1% of the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Member State concerned in the preceding year.
I believe that the Commission should be given the possibility to propose to reduce the amount of the fine or cancel it in exceptional economic circumstances, and the power to adopt individual decisions for the application of the sanction provided for in this regulation should be conferred on the Council.
in writing. - I abstained from this vote.
I supported the accompanying Ferreira report, but was unable to support this report as I strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the European Union by the centre-right.
This package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the EU at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of Europe.
I welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in Europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed.
Long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and I cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across Europe.
The Commission's proposals for improved economic governance are of major importance for the future of the European Union and for growth in the countries belonging to the euro area.
Economic governance should be built on stronger national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and on a more robust EU national economic policy surveillance framework.
If the latter is to be credible and efficient, it must be strengthened by the introduction of yearly fines for non-compliance with recommendations or the obligation to draw up a sufficient corrective action plan.
We believe that economic governance and national economic policy should be a matter of common concern for all the parties involved, and that there should be an emphasis on early detection and prevention of potentially harmful macroeconomic imbalances.
Faced with the threat of the Commission imposing annual fines on Member States challenging its authority, the majority can find nothing better to do than propose extending these.
All of the planned European governance measures aim to wrest power from the Member States, increase the influence of the central powers in Brussels and restrict democracy in Europe.
The lack of participation by the banks and investors, who made healthy profits in recent years, shows how much influence these groups actually wield over the political elite in Europe.
While the top ten thousand will cash in - thus, all the payments to Greece will not go to the Greek people, but will instead line the pockets of investors - the people of Europe are being weighed down with more and more unjustified financial burdens.
I therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - (LT) An improved economic governance framework should be built on stronger national ownership of rules and policies and a more robust surveillance framework at the European level of national economic policies.
In order to ensure that the provisions of the regulation on microeconomic imbalances in the euro area can be properly implemented and achieve the objectives outlined, a differentiated system of sanction allocation must be established.
I agree with the proposal that the interest-bearing deposit and the fine should be identical for Member States whose currency is the euro, in order to ensure equal treatment for all Member States.
Only a strong and independent Commission can properly supervise and give directions in the new deeper and wider economic policy surveillance framework.
Consequently, the Commission needs to be given the right to recommend reducing the size of a sanction or to cancel it in exceptional economic circumstances.
I voted for this report on enforcement measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area, which is part of the legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the EU and the euro area.
The Commission proposals for improving economic governance are of the greatest importance for the future of the EU and for economic growth, particularly in the euro area.
The crucial importance of these measures meant that Parliament's rapporteurs decided to examine the Commission proposals exhaustively as a package, and to improve them so as to establish a robust and coherent framework for the coming decades.
The rapporteurs have taken the Commission's proposals as a starting point for their work.
The new competences conferred by the Treaty of Lisbon have led to new responsibilities and the Council will not be able to make a final decision on the entire package without Parliament's agreement.
The aim of this procedure is to ensure coherence and the timely adoption of all elements making up the package; that has also been achieved with this report.
Economic governance and national economic policy should be more a matter of common concern for all the parties involved.
The Commission's proposals for improved economic governance are of major importance for the future of the European Union.
For these reasons, I voted in favour.
Specifically, the possibility to impose a sanction of 0.1% of gross domestic product (GDP) in the case of Member States that do not apply the recommendations is introduced.
Everyone is now aware of the need for an improved economic governance framework to guarantee a more robust EU national economic policy surveillance framework.
Furthermore, this surveillance should be broadened to prevent harmful macroeconomic imbalances, with a guarantee that, in future, it will go beyond fiscal policy and that its remit will be extended to early detection and prevention of potentially harmful economic imbalances, too.
in writing. - The ECR has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis.
We have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the Parliament's preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting.
Nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the Commission and endorsed by the Parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro.
It includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of Member States, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments.
So while we endorse the long term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
This was to a large extent due to the fact that Member States felt they would not be punished, because the sanctions provided for in the system were not applied automatically.
The measures which have been proposed centre mainly around stronger coordination of the fiscal policy of individual Member States and tougher and automatic sanctions intended to force Member States to maintain greater macroeconomic discipline.
Institutionalised austerity cannot be the only response that we offer Europeans.
However, strict rules laid down for the deficits and the debt cannot be our sole response.
The 'governance' package should be offset by a European investment plan which guarantees economically and socially sustainable development.
I therefore voted for the Feio and Wortmann-Kool reports while I abstained on the Ferreira, Ford and Haglund reports and I voted for the Goulard report (for Eurobonds).
in writing. - As a result of the global economic crisis and the instability that continues to plague the euro area, the Commission proposed a number of legislative initiatives, cumulatively known as the Economic Governance Package.
It in order to avoid a repetition of the crises currently inflicting the euro area it is vital that countries exercise fiscal discipline.
Being part of the euro area has been instrumental for most Member States in weathering the adverse effects of the crisis; nevertheless forming part of this group also entails responsibilities as the potential default of one Member State will see a wave of negative effects across the entire area.
I am in favour of a strong European Economic Governance Package and have thus decided to vote in favour of the six dossiers as amended.
In the context of the euro crisis, Member States should no longer escape penalties if their deficits get out of control.
While this legislative package does represent a step forward, these legislative measures on financial stability are far from sufficient.
Europe also needs to have a real European policy on investment and to introduce a public loan at Union level.
This would be the sign of a strong and united European response to the crisis.
This signal could act as a guarantee against the risk of collapse of the euro area.
Political power must always be in a position to judge the text and the context and to decide the extent to which sanctions are opportune and necessary.
However, economic governance should above all aim for the best possible future, in other words aim for greater economic growth.
I am voting for this report, since it took into account the main concerns of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
It is particularly important that the directive apply to digital products, as well as - partially - to passenger transportation.
The proposal for which we have just voted replaces four existing directives with one, with a view to simplifying and supplementing the existing legal framework for consumer protection.
I welcome what the report says on protecting consumer rights and encouraging cross-border trade throughout Europe.
Consumer rights are of critical importance to the effective functioning of the single market.
I voted in favour of the report because it proposes measures that will ensure that there is protection for consumers everywhere in the Union.
Under its provisions, traders will have to provide clear and accurate information in a timely manner and, failing that, a consumer cannot be bound by distance or off-premises contracts.
I particularly welcome what it says with regard to giving consumers the right to change their mind after buying an article online.
There has been a significant increase in online shopping in the EU and there must be protection for consumers who engage in it.
A balance must be struck between strengthening consumer rights and cutting red tape.
The role of the legislator is to prevent the most questionable practices from becoming widespread in order to avoid mail order being nothing short of a jungle of regulations.
Specifically, the European consumer is guaranteed the right to withdraw within 14 days.
According to the new regulations, all goods ordered remotely must be delivered within 30 days.
The directive in question was a great opportunity to try to establish common standards for the 27 Member States, as well as an excellent chance to simplify EU legislation on consumer rights, which is still split into several legislative acts.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because it has greatly simplified EU legislation in the field of consumer protection and extended the rights of consumers when making online purchases.
In addition to enhanced protection of consumer rights, this proposal for a directive is aimed at eliminating unnecessary legal obstacles for companies wishing to sell their goods and services in the entire territory of the European Union.
The newly confirmed consumer rights for online purchases include the opportunity to return goods within 14 days of delivery, the right to withdraw from a purchase if the goods are not delivered within 30 days of ordering, and an obligation to inform the purchaser of the good's final price.
in writing. - (CS) On 23 June 2011, Parliament approved the proposal for a Consumer Rights Directive, replacing the previous four directives with one legal document.
The directive above all responds to the fragmentation of law on cross-border commerce, where, with Internet shopping in particular, traders are unwilling to be governed by the different rules of another Member State.
The directive above all reintroduces the obligation to inform consumers about place of business, telephone and fax numbers and e-mail address, in order to facilitate communication with the trader.
The reintroduction of the obligation for traders to reimburse the direct costs for returning goods where the price of the goods does not exceed EUR 50 is also a new development.
I voted in favour of adopting the final compromise as it marks an important step forward for consumer protection, offering additional legal certainty for both consumers and traders.
I think that the directive offers numerous merits, one of which is maximum harmonisation for distance selling and off-premises contracts, with a few exceptions.
To develop the internal market through boosting cross-border transactions and e-commerce, it is vital that European consumers benefit in these contracts from a standard level of protection, regardless of their country of origin.
I also welcome the solution found for the right to cancel in the case of online products, given that the number of sales of such products is rising and a solution was an absolute necessity.
The introduction of this common platform of rights for all consumers within the Union represents a real step forward for the citizens of other countries where consumer information requirements are not as high and where the period for withdrawal is less well protected.
However, it has given mixed results, as the aim of the Commission and the European right has been above all to facilitate cross-border trade, and not to harmonise upwards consumer protection.
in writing. - It is important to underline the necessity of consumer rights, particularly those related to online purchases, in this and future reports in this area.
in writing. - (PT) This directive aims to simplify and complete the legislative framework in force, by merging the four existing directives into a single legislative instrument.
There is a need to establish a true internal market between businesses and consumers that is able to contribute to a fair balance between a high level of consumer protection and businesses' competitiveness, but also to ensure respect for the subsidiarity principle.
That would enable consumers to have access to competitive cross-border offers, benefitting from better choice, better prices and the clear advantages of the internal market, whilst also enabling them to place greater trust in a high level of protection of their rights.
At the same time, it will enable companies to provide goods and services without being subjected to unnecessary legal obstacles.
I agree that the ideal solution would be an approach of total harmonisation, as initially proposed by the Commission and requested by several spheres of business.
However, unfortunately, that approach is still unfeasible at this stage... (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) I welcome this vote, which is a significant step forwards for the internal market and the fruit of complex and involved negotiations.
I consider it important for the European Parliament to continue to play a part in monitoring the directive's implementation by the Member States over the next two years.
With this directive, European consumers will gain new rights enshrined at European level and transcending national borders.
This will most certainly increase cross-border trade and boost online trade, which is the real challenge for businesses and the economic recovery of the market.
Today, Parliament adopted the amended text of the Consumer Rights Directive of my fellow Member, Mr Schwab.
I welcome the adoption of this directive which will contribute to strengthening the platform of common consumer protection regulations, in particular with reference to the sale of goods online.
I also welcome the fact that the legislator has allowed the Member States to include provisions that are more favourable to consumers in their respective national legal systems.
Conversely, like numerous consumer associations, I deplore the fact that options have been provided so that Member States can bypass certain provisions in the directive with commercial or sector interests in mind.
in writing. - I supported this deal between the European Parliament and Council on a Directive on Consumer Rights.
The proposal for the directive merges the four existing Community directives into a single legal instrument.
I would have liked to have seen a higher level of consumer protection in some areas but the proposal as a whole is a very good compromise and will enhance the rights of the consumers throughout the EU.
Several important points will mean real added value for the European consumer; the Directive now applies to digital products and (partly) to passenger travel; the trader is now required to provide the consumer with specific information in the pre-contractual phase, in on-premises contracts as well as in off-premises and distance contracts; immediately before a consumer places an order, she has to be informed (again) about the full price and the main characteristics of the product, and she has to explicitly confirm that the order implies and obligation to pay; Moreover, the right of withdrawal will now be fully harmonized in all Member States providing a 14-day withdrawal period.
The Consumer Rights Directive will enable full harmonisation of the rights of European consumers.
This text provides for new, very important regulations for e-commerce.
With these new regulations, vendors will still be under the obligation to display clearly the total cost of the good or service including all additional costs.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for this report because it contributes to increasing the confidence and protection of consumers when they buy on the Internet, and to reducing the reluctance of businesses to sell in other EU countries.
These amendments will ensure consumers greater security, and will contribute to companies, small or large, being able to provide goods and services without unnecessary legal obstacles.
I therefore believe that this is an area where, on the one hand, maximum harmonisation may be useful, but, on the other, minimum harmonisation may also be adopted, depending on which is more suited to a given type of contract.
This report is on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on Consumer Rights.
I therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which represents a major step forward in consumer protection.
I also welcome the option taken by the Council of restricting this directive to door-to-door and Internet sales - a market that is expanding significantly, but in which consumers still feel a little lost - and I approve of the simplification measures adopted, not least the possibility of consumers, but not companies, rescinding contracts by telephone.
In reality, the common market requires rules that are more precise and transparent, such as the clause on the requirement for information on the mechanisms of online transactions.
This is a new proposal for an agreement on a European Directive on Consumer Rights, which is the culmination of tough negotiations between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
This is a compromise between rules aimed at better protecting consumers and guaranteeing clear common conditions for companies competing in the single market.
In case of return of goods, the price paid by the consumer must be returned within 14 days of their return.
In this new version, the item will have to be delivered within 30 days.
If this does not happen during that time, the buyer has the right to cancel the order, and the seller is responsible for any loss or damage that occurs during transportation and shall not charge any sum that is not clearly marked as part of the initial online order.
It is a positive proposal, overall, and we voted in favour.
This new proposal for an agreement on a European Directive on Consumer Rights is the culmination of tough negotiations between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Of the new rights, the following are particularly important: a 14-day withdrawal period for the entire EU, to be counted from receipt of the goods, during which consumers buying at distance can change their mind.
In case of return of goods, the price paid by the consumer must be returned within 14 days of their return.
in writing. - (SK) The aim of this proposal is to ensure that consumers in all 27 Member States of the EU can rely on a high level of consumer protection, and that companies of all sizes are capable of supplying goods and providing services to consumers in all 27 EU Member States without unnecessary legal obstacles.
The fragmentation of existing laws scares off both consumers and businesses who are considering becoming involved in cross-border trade.
Consumers often complain that they cannot make full use of the advantages of the single market, since traders with a place of business in another Member State are often not prepared, when entering a new market, to comply with the differing provisions applicable in that market.
In addition to this, they often refuse to open up a possible legal action in another Member State.
The altered scope of the proposed directive appears to offer a possible solution to the difficulties that have arisen, as, in addition to the introduction of many sectoral variations, the scope of the directive would be mainly limited to off-premises contracts, which make up the greater part of cross-border transactions.
I therefore think it is desirable to apply an approach aimed at a targeted, full and extensive harmonisation, limited to specific aspects of certain contracts, while retaining a high level of consumer protection.
The effort of consolidating 27 diverse legal traditions in one document has perhaps been too audacious.
Doubts about the consequences of transposing this directive in the individual Member States and the deletion from the text of the amendment approved by our Member in committee induce me to abstain.
I am voting in favour of this report because I believe that the moment has come to harmonise the European legal system in terms of consumer protection.
In 2008, the European Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on Consumer Rights, which consolidated the four existing Community directives into a single legal instrument, with the aim of simplifying and standardising the existing regulatory framework in the area of consumer protection.
It is now essential both to guarantee a higher level of protection to all consumers in the 27 Member States of the European Union and to ensure that businesses have the possibility of providing their products and services without encountering unnecessary legal obstacles stemming from differing systems.
I hope that our work will be able to respond to the great challenge of protecting consumers and to our businesses' need for growth, in order to strengthen a strong and competitive market.
After weeks of negotiations, agreement has finally been reached on this crucial issue for European citizens, namely consumer rights.
By adopting this proposal for a directive, which replaces four existing directives with one, we hope to improve the regulation of consumer protection and guarantee everyone a minimum level of protection.
Thus this directive contains some major steps forward, and, in particular, better supervision of remote sales and e-commerce.
As someone who represents a very cross-border constituency and who hails from the only region in France to share a border with three other EU Member States, I am very sensitive to these problems and this directive represents a major step forward.
Beyond that, one of the main successes of the European Union is the internal market.
By guaranteeing clear consumer protection, we will be able to strengthen consumer confidence in the internal market and more generally towards the European Union.
The European Parliament has brought an end to the long legislative procedure on the Consumer Rights Directive by adopting the Schwab report, which is a satisfactory compromise with the Council and the Commission.
On the one hand, we have adopted a single legislative instrument on consumer rights, which provides harmonisation and takes over from the four previous directives in this area.
On the other hand, we have laid down detailed rules for buying and selling online, in order to promote cross-border trade and to guarantee transparency for both businesses and consumers.
The new directive lays down aspects that are intended to give greater protection to the European consumer, such as the information to be contained in sale contracts, delivery times, the right of withdrawal, and the right to repair or replacement of a defective product, as well as the cases in which the risk is transferred from the vendor to the consumer.
Although yet more detailed rules may be laid down in future, the text that has been adopted represents a positive compromise in the harmonisation of existing regulations, guaranteeing secure purchases and putting a definitive end to typical sharp practices that hide behind electronic purchasing.
I supported this report because I believe that it will above all give greater security to consumers buying online by providing better prior consumer information.
Let me also take this opportunity to commend the fact that priority has not been given to market interests alone.
I note in particular that these new regulations provide consumers with a 14-day withdrawal period after their purchase, with a withdrawal form that is standardised throughout the EU, and that this period can even be extended to one year if the vendor fails to inform the purchaser about the right to withdraw.
Finally, exemptions have been provided for small and medium-sized enterprises who have informed us of the threats that would have hung over their business if the text had been too strict.
in writing. - I wish to congratulate the rapporteur and colleagues across the political groups for the excellent work that has been done in negotiating this package.
When this House first received the Commission's proposal it was clear that consumer rights in numerous countries were being threatened, not enhanced.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because the aim of the directive is to achieve a high level of consumer protection and contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market by approximating certain aspects of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning contracts between consumers and traders.
It may also contribute to increasing the flow of cross-border trade and stimulating distance selling.
This directive shall not apply to contracts relating to: social services, health care, financial services, immovable property, the construction of new buildings, as well as contracts concluded by means of automatic vending machines or automated commercial premises or concluded with telecommunications operators through public payphones for the use thereof, or relating to single telephone, Internet or fax connections established by the consumer.
It should be noted that the European Consumers' Organisation welcomes this proposal.
I voted for the Consumer Rights Directive today because I believe that it will simplify and improve the existing regulations in the area of consumer protection.
Over many months, Members in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection sought to reach agreement on important aspects of this regulation with the Council, in order that consumers may be better protected, without making businesses suffer from overly strict and unnecessary rules that would restrict business activity and increase bureaucracy.
There are currently significant differences, and these are an obstacle to business people who wish to expand into the markets of those other Member States where the standards are higher.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the results of the negotiations on the Consumer Rights Directive because it was possible to find a balanced compromise between the interests of both consumers and the business community.
By harmonising consumer rights, we are helping to strengthen the internal market, thereby also strengthening Europe.
Above all, it could have been possible to add the procurement element to the definition of off-premises contracts.
in writing. - (FR) I supported the report by my colleague Mr Schwab which had been subject to an agreement between the Commission, Parliament and the Council, and which has struck an appropriate balance between greater protection for all European consumers and easier access to the European market for our businesses.
While this directive deals with sales and service contracts between businesses and consumers, in particular distance contracts and off-premises contracts, it is particularly encouraging that European legislation is at last addressing the issue of e-commerce, which is set to play an increasing role in our economies and purchasing practices.
Consumer rights require continuous care, both in the area of legislation, including the scope of regulation, the subject of regulation and the obligations and rights of the parties, and also in the area of the observance of these rights.
It is good that we periodically review and modify provisions in these areas.
The above essential matters and principles have found expression in the Schwab report.
in writing. - (RO) The new directive is a balanced agreement offering benefits such as the right recognised at EU level of consumers to change their mind in the two weeks after they have received the item they ordered and the obligation for online traders to provide full information about the total price and the trader's contact details.
We must aim in the future to protect consumers against unfair contractual terms.
It should guarantee consumers a higher level of protection and ensure that businesses can provide their goods and services to consumers without encountering legal obstacles.
The European Commission has proposed applying the principle of 'full harmonisation', since the current divergence in national legislation has contributed to the fragmentation of the market and the regulatory framework.
We consider that such a proposal is impractical at the moment, and we propose instead minimum harmonisation at a high level of consumer protection as a rule, emphasising the need for convergence of national regulations on the exercise and effects of the right of withdrawal.
All this will help to strengthen consumer confidence and overcome the reluctance of businesses to engage in cross-border trade.
Persons and organisations having an interest in consumer protection will have to report to the Commission on the results of implementing this directive.
in writing. - (DE) The report on consumer rights still contains numerous shortcomings, particularly in relation to the provisions for craftspeople.
However, because it contains a number of improvements on the Commission's proposal and, most importantly, offers numerous benefits to the European consumer, I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (DE) Certain conditions must be established in order to offer companies an incentive to enter into cross-border trade.
There is still a great deal of uncertainty associated with online purchases in particular - especially on the part of the consumer - as there is no clear legal basis for such transactions.
Misunderstandings regularly occur, especially in relation to the purchaser's right of withdrawal and delivery conditions.
I am pleased to see that, after years of negotiations, agreement between the different political groups has finally been reached and that the new Consumer Rights Directive has finally been adopted today.
The new regulations will notably strengthen consumer rights.
Consumers will be better informed on contract terms and conditions of sale, as well as on delivery times and the possibility of withdrawing from the contract.
I have in mind, for example, the period for a refund in the case of returned goods, which will be considerably reduced, providing a guarantee to the consumer from a financial point of view as well, and the right to reconsider, which will be extended to 14 days.
These are small but important steps that will be appreciated not just by consumers, since the directive, as amended, will also bring benefits to small and medium-sized enterprises, enabling them to extend their business across borders too, where many of them, especially the smaller entrepreneurs, still find it difficult to operate, due to consumers' mistrust of new technologies, online transactions, assurances that they will get their money back and legal restitution in cases of a change of mind.
in writing. - (LT) We must make every effort to ensure that there is a high level of consumer protection throughout the entire European Union.
Consequently, specific information requirements need to be imposed on these types of contracts to ensure adequate consumer protection.
It should be noted that Member States are given the right not to apply the provisions of this directive to off-premises contracts where the contract amount does not exceed EUR 50, in order to avoid additional legal obstacles.
I voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on Consumer Rights.
Not all the grand ambitions for the Consumer Rights Directive have been achieved, but I believe an important step has been taken that does not compromise the market's normal workings.
This proposal for a directive is the result of a review of the consumer acquis which started in 2004 with the aim of simplifying and completing the existing regulatory framework relating to consumer protection.
The proposal is intended to ensure that, on the one hand, consumers of the 27 Member States can rely on a high level of protection and, on the other hand, that businesses, regardless of their size, can provide their goods and services to consumers in the 27 Member States without facing unnecessary legal obstacles.
In order to avoid the ever greater fragmentation of existing regulations in this area, a targeted full harmonisation approach was sought; that is to say, harmonisation limited to specific aspects of certain contracts, while maintaining a high level of consumer protection.
In order that citizens of the EU may benefit fully from their internal market, especially in relation to e-commerce, I am voting in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. - A directive harmonising consumer rights across Europe makes sense.
It also has the potential to boost Internet and distance sales businesses because shoppers will have greater confidence in services based in the EU.
Providing this information will give consumers confidence and encourage them to engage in cross-border shopping, providing them with better choice and value.
Any increase in cross-border shopping will be a benefit to the internal market as a whole.
Online sales and e-commerce in Europe were worth EUR 163 billion in 2010 and the Centre for Retail Research predicts online sales in Europe will grow by 18.7% to EUR 202.9 billion in 2011.
The directive also protects businesses.
By harmonising these laws across the EU, businesses can be confident the rules that apply in their home market also apply everywhere else in the EU.
in writing. - (RO) The European Commission proposal for a Directive on Consumer Rights merges four existing directives into a single legislative instrument, with the aim of simplifying and completing the existing consumer protection regulatory framework.
The twin aims of the proposal are to guarantee that every consumer in the 27 EU Member States can rely on a high level of consumer protection and that businesses of all sizes are in a position to provide their goods and services to consumers in the 27 EU Member States.
The new consumer rights regulations include almost every type of sales, in stores, via telephone or online, but reinforce in particular the provisions on international sales.
The new legislation stipulates what kind of information the purchaser must receive from the seller, the delivery terms and the rules applied when the risk lies with the purchaser, not to mention the latter's right to cancel or refuse purchases or the right to have an item repaired or replaced.
I support the proposal to introduce a combination of the principles of maximum and minimum harmonisation, thereby allowing consumers to retain the rights they have gained through national legal provisions.
In a large internal market like Europe's, there is a need to ensure that consumers' rights are protected.
It is difficult to reconcile 27 different legal traditions on these subjects.
It would have been more opportune, in my view, to concentrate on specific aspects and sectors, rather than to try and create a new competency shared between the EU and the Member States.
In fact, for certain states, this directive will represent an over-large and over-enthusiastic step forward, while other countries will have to make concessions in the name of European harmonisation.
in writing. - (FR) A well-protected consumer is a citizen at ease and a sign of maturity in our modern democracies.
This vote has taken place after fierce negotiations between Parliament and the Member States and constitutes a strong signal that the same rights must be exercised throughout the Union.
I voted in favour of the Schwab report, which strengthens the rights of consumers and safeguards them in particular when they are the weak contractual party, for example when they make purchases away from business premises.
in writing. - The new rules approved by the EP today will give a real boost to consumers' rights across Europe.
The new rules will also bring real improvements for passengers buying transport tickets online.
It should end in transparent charging practices and ensure that companies can no longer surcharge consumers when using credit cards.
One in two Europeans uses the Internet, and the number of online purchases has doubled over the last six years.
The existence of minimum harmonisation clauses has resulted in the fragmentation of the regulatory framework, hindering the completion of the single market.
The adopted report helps to improve the functioning of the internal market, while at the same time bolstering consumer confidence.
Excessive fragmentation has also reduced the choice of millions of European citizens and made them less confident about purchasing goods from abroad.
Consumers will have recourse to a number of remedies in the event that they purchase a product that does not conform to the contract, and they will be entitled to claim damages if no remedy is provided.
Provision is also made for the publication of a list of terms that are considered unfair and are therefore prohibited throughout the European Union.
We would not want to waste all the work done and the positive things achieved, including, for example, the contribution of our amendment on the right of recourse, which is intended to bring about a clear improvement in the activity of small traders without harming consumer rights.
The responsibility for this situation lies not with Parliament but with the Commission.
The internal market remains one of the pillars and drivers of European integration.
I voted in favour of this report as it represents not only a major advance towards further European integration, but also, once they are implemented, these regulations will enable all citizens to benefit from the same high level of protection, whatever their mode of purchase.
in writing. - (CS) I voted for the adoption of the Consumer Rights Directive, because I believe it will ultimately strengthen the rights of European consumers.
My group in particular has managed to carry through several key points which retain the high level of consumer protection in countries where protection would be reduced through the introduction of common rules.
It was important for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, as well as for me personally, that the directive should apply to digital products in the same way as it does, in part, to passenger transport.
Another important point is that the directive includes a long list of requirements pertaining to the information which must be provided by traders to consumers in the pre-contractual stage in the case of off-premises and distance contracts.
Another important point is that consumers must be informed of the full price and the main characteristics of a product immediately before ordering it on the Internet, and they alone must explicitly confirm that they want to pay that price.
In addition to this, the right to withdraw from a contract will be fully harmonised in all Member States, providing a fourteen-day period to do so.
The new directive also does away with the exemption for distance or off-premises contracts, which have been widely abused in the Czech Republic by street traders or at promotional events for old people, for example, depriving consumers of their rights, such as the right to withdraw from a contract.
In today's vote, I endorsed the amendments to the Directive on Consumer Rights which make it easier to make purchases on the Internet, because this is a very important step towards the complete lifting of barriers to the flow of goods while at the same time safeguarding the rights of consumers.
Consumers very often complain that their right to benefit from all the privileges of the single market is incomplete, and this is reflected in the lack of trust in online transactions and in the feeling of legal uncertainty concerning the scope of the protection which should be enjoyed by consumers.
Therefore, a legal solution at Union level is essential.
The experts estimate that by 2015 as much as a quarter of trade will have moved to the Internet, so it is very important that confidence in this type of transaction should grow.
I congratulate the author of the report and the other people who were involved in the work on the draft of this resolution.
in writing. - (NL) The Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) will be voting in favour of the Consumer Rights Directive because it will provide better protection for Dutch consumers when shopping online.
Consumers shopping in the Netherlands enjoy good protection, but when shopping online, often in foreign shops, that protection is not guaranteed or is unclear.
It will mean that, in future, Dutch consumers will enjoy a 14-day cooling-off period right across Europe.
The final price that a consumer has to pay must be clearly displayed in advance.
This directive will thus help protect Dutch consumers and improve the internal market, and the PVV is fully in favour of that.
This directive which has been adopted today by the vast majority of the European Parliament marks an important stage in achieving greater consumer protection within the European Union.
The new regulations will strengthen consumer rights considerably, in particular with regard to information, delivery and withdrawal from contracts.
The right to withdraw has been extended to 14 days for all European citizens, and this represents a decisive step forward.
However, the area in which the directive breaks new ground is in consumer rights in e-commerce: prohibition of pre-ticked boxes and full information on all different costs are tools indeed for consumer protection.
The Consumer Rights Directive is now going to the final vote, following my vote in favour at the part-session in March 2011.
I hope that they will improve consumer protection and the functioning of the internal market, while also stimulating cross-border trade within the EU.
The new rules are good news for Lithuania, which has one of the highest Internet penetration rates in Europe.
According to reports in the Lithuanian media (Verslo savaitė), in Lithuania the number of consumers shopping online has grown by 73% over the last two years.
However, improving consumer rights should not be restricted to the Internet.
We must reduce bureaucracy and promote transparency in all areas of consumer rights.
We should also strive to ensure that people are better informed about consumer rights.
in writing. - I wholeheartedly supported this report to strengthen protection for consumers across Wales.
This new legislation takes in to account the "digital revolution" and will help both consumers and traders alike.
The Consumer Rights Directive also signals the end of high credit and debit card fees, which many people pay when purchasing on line - I am pleased to say that this report outlaws the practice of adding credit or debit card payment fees that bear no relation to costs incurred when processing an on-line transaction.
I hope that the British Government will implement these new rules without delay to ensure the protection of consumers across the UK.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted in favour of the amendment to Directive 2000/25/EC.
Thus, it is necessary to provide the required time period and adopt measures that allow manufactures to sell tractors, to seek resources for research and that also allow farmers to replace their tractors with less polluting ones, always with the aim of complying with European environmental legislation.
As the rapporteur mentions, the proposal in question aims to enable Union manufacturers to sell tractors, to overcome the time of economic crisis currently being experienced, to find new resources for research and to respect European legislation's limits as regards environmental protection, whilst simultaneously replacing the most obsolete tractors with new tractors that have less polluting engines.
In order to make environmental protection compatible with the protection of agricultural and industrial activities, transitional measures like the present flexibility scheme are advisable.
This directive sets out the maximum level of exhaust gases that each tractor with a diesel engine may emit, taking into account its power, and establishes a timetable for phasing out these emissions.
However, the proposal does not provide for a reduction as drastic as was initially envisaged on account of the delay in implementing new technological solutions and the decline of more than 20% in turnover in 2009 and 2010.
I voted for the rapporteur's recommendations because I agree, not only that this directive will enable tractor sellers to respect European legislation whilst overcoming the current crisis, but that it will enable farmers to replace used tractors with new agricultural machines with engines that are more efficient and that cause less pollution.
in writing. - (SK) The directive in question applies to emissions from agricultural tractors and its aim is a quantitative amendment to Directive 2000/25/EC.
The limits set for the stage that has just begun are much stricter than for the previous stage.
Given the 25% fall in its turnover compared with the pre-crisis period, this sector, an important and well-developed one in our regions, needs our support, not more constraints.
Today's vote will enable European agricultural tractor manufacturers to deal with the more stringent exhaust emission limits imposed by the entry into force of Stage III B of Directive 2000/25/EC.
We must remember, in fact, that in order to be able to comply with the new limits, engines will have to undergo major modifications, which will involve fundamental changes in the design of the vehicles, too.
In many cases, the solutions for adapting tractors to the new engines are not yet available or final.
Lastly, I should like to point out that, although the amendment of this directive will have a significant environmental impact, it will generate major economic benefits, enabling EU manufacturers to overcome this time of crisis and, at the same time, to comply with the limits laid down by European law for environmental protection purposes.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because this directive concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and merely makes a quantitative modification to Directive 2000/25/EC, without altering its environmental protection objectives, methodology or period of validity.
Directive 2000/25/EC on emissions of pollutants from agricultural tractors lays down the maximum levels of carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulates (PM) which may be emitted in exhaust gases from diesel engines in tractors.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the compromise reached by the rapporteur in the negotiations with the Council for reasons relating to Romania's interests.
Even though the political group which I belong to has taken a different stance, the one adopted in the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, which supports an increase from 20% to just 35% of tractor production that can be placed on the market, and even though this does not meet current environmental standards, my decision was for us to pursue Romania's interests.
On the one hand, due account is taken of the fact that the crisis has disrupted the entire economic and production landscape and hence also the tractor industry: this flexibility measure will enable it to recover immediately and will also have a positive impact on agriculture as a whole.
On the other hand, it is not a question of climbing down on the issue of pollution, which is still important, but simply of using a criterion that will ensure that basic common sense is applied.
This is the Europe that we value, a Europe that is capable of responding to specific needs and adapting, where necessary, measures that have already been taken when they are no longer sufficient for the changes in circumstances.
in writing. - (LT) I welcome this resolution.
Manufacturers will not face an additional burden and will have sufficient time to adapt their production to the requirements at every stage, while farmers will be able to exchange their oldest tractors for new ones, whose engines will be less polluting.
Consequently, I believe that it is appropriate to raise the number exempted from 20% to 50% of annual sales of tractors.
This report is on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 2000/25/EC as regards the provisions for tractors placed on the market under the flexibility scheme.
The directive in question concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and makes a merely quantitative modification to Directive 2000/25/EC, without altering its environmental protection objectives, methodology or period of validity.
All of these factors, duly founded on this report, influenced my vote in favour.
The proposal to amend Directive 2000/25/EC on emissions from agricultural tractors relates solely to the quantitative side of things.
This directive deals with exhaust emissions from diesel engines installed in tractors.
The limits set for the stage which has just begun are much stricter than those for the previous stages.
For these reasons, and because the technological development time lag and the global financial crisis have precluded the adjustment of these factors, I voted in favour.
In view of the serious economic crisis, the Commission might have made more radical proposals, such as a moratorium on the Directive, a change in the timing of the stages or an even higher percentage of flexibility.
However, the Commission has opted to introduce a measure which is simple, effective and timely and which will make it possible: (a) for manufacturers in the EU to sell tractors, overcome the current difficult economic crisis, find new resources for research and comply with the limits laid down by European law for environmental protection purposes; (b) for farmers to replace their oldest tractors with new ones whose engines will be less polluting.
in writing. - Against.
While the impact of this particular proposal on EU air quality is small, the issue of principle is important.
I believe that the Commission proposal on the provisions for tractors placed on the market under the flexibility scheme contains timely, simple and effective measures.
These two proposals to amend directives are crucial to the survival of European manufacturing companies.
The Commission has proposed to exempt 50% of the tractors manufactured in the EU in the last five years because of the technological development time lag, which makes it impossible - unless an enormous amount of money is spent - to carry out the mechanical modifications necessary to move on to the next stage, and because of the economic crisis affecting the tractor market, which has seen a 20% annual fall in its turnover since 2008.
The final compromise reached following the trialogues has resulted in a first-reading agreement for a 40% exemption for tractors and a 37.5% exemption for non-road mobile machinery.
I am voting for this proposal, with the amendments of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
The Commission proposal lays down specific requirements to ensure Member States will establish a national regulatory and organisational framework, and draw up appropriate national programmes for managing spent fuel and radioactive waste, from generation up to disposal.
It is essential to impose a ban on exporting waste.
We need a responsible strategy and adequate means of eliminating all nuclear waste produced for energy purposes, for research, or for medical uses.
I therefore voted for the directive on managing this waste.
Even though the text could be improved further and there is an important point that remains, in my view, unresolved, namely the definition of radioactive waste, I believe that we should continue to forge ahead in this area and that it is pointless to deny the need to treat waste.
I also voted in favour because the possibility of exporting to third countries was rejected.
It would be totally unacceptable if we were to allow the export of our most dangerous waste to countries outside the EU, where we cannot be certain of the level of safety with regard to the treatment and storage of the waste in the long term.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because responsible management and storage of waste that is harmful to the environment and humans is undoubtedly important.
With this report the European Parliament basically approved the Commission proposal for a directive, which sets out an EU legal framework for spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
The legal framework proposed by the Commission is aimed at obliging Member States to draw up national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
The European Parliament report proposes the following improvements to the text of the future directive: strengthening of the so-called reversibility principle, according to which access would even be created to waste buried by means of deep geological disposal, should a means of processing such waste be discovered at some stage in the future, for example.
I voted in favour of the report on the management of radioactive waste.
Parliament has long been calling for harmonised standards, and this report contributes towards a consistent legislative corpus aimed at ensuring safe management.
I agree with the proposal's aim of ensuring that adequate financial resources are set aside to meet the requirements of nuclear plant decommissioning, and that the waste is managed in a transparent manner.
Member States are still responsible for the safe management of spent fuel and waste, but they can fulfil this obligation while working on joint initiatives to share the management of radioactive waste under duly defined and rigorous conditions.
The proposal for a directive on which the European Parliament was consulted is another example of how Europe is able to act in a practical manner to protect European citizens.
Organising harmonised standards in the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste responds to a demand and a need to strengthen safety in this area.
I was particularly pleased to see a proposal adopted that would go beyond the fundamental safety principles set by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and impose the highest safety standards reflecting state-of-the-art practices at regulatory and operational level and best available technology (BAT).
I welcome the vote on this report.
It is therefore our responsibility to demand maximum safety.
That is why I also voted for the amendment banning the installation of nuclear waste management facilities in seismic or coastal areas where there are significant risks of rises in sea levels and tsunamis.
Furthermore, I believe in the principle that the polluter pays, and I also voted in favour of the amendment calling for an assessment of the costs, monitoring, the sending of regular reports to the European Commission and the participation of national governments.
The current directive only covers spent fuel storage facilities directly related to nuclear installations, the current proposal intends to assure safety in the long term of the management of existing and future radioactive waste.
The tragic events in Fukushima have only served to strengthen the will of Parliament to have a strong clear directive on the export and processing of nuclear waste.
We also must have stricter rules in order to protect workers, better monitoring and strengthening of the powers of investigation by the competent authorities in order to be able to carry out regular assessments of nuclear safety, enquiries and inspections.
At the same time, research into alternatives to deep disposal of waste must be stepped up.
We must have a joint policy on renewable energy and develop other sources of energy, without falling back on fossil fuels, while seeking to ensure that we are self-sufficient.
The proposed directive establishes a European legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
As this proposal is based on the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), the European Parliament is only being consulted.
The problem of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is tackled in the report by Mrs Jordan Cizeli that we have just voted on.
Following the Fukushima disaster, the resulting security issues have made this issue unexpectedly acute.
I therefore voted for this proposal, which aims to implement the polluter-pays principle - respect for which has been very gradual - and introduces measures restricting the shipping of these goods to third countries.
In truth, it is essential that we increase our awareness of the fact that we cannot leave these problems for future generations.
I welcome the introduction of a financial mechanism to help manage this waste, so as to stop it being dangerous, and the adoption of regulators that are more demanding and prevent the violation of this directive.
in writing. - (SK) Last November the Commission issued a proposal for a directive establishing the EU's legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
The proposal sets out concrete requirements which should ensure the safe handling and management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from its creation to its disposal.
In planning the concept and technical solution for final storage - mainly the deep geological storage of spent fuel and highly radioactive waste - urgent consideration should be given to the principle of reversibility.
The aim is to enable potential access to the waste and its reverse recovery, either for technical reasons or if progress in research creates the possibility of a new, longer-term technological solution.
The storage of waste in repositories, however, must in any case be performed in accordance with internationally accepted safety standards, requirements and methodology.
In the final analysis, it is the Member States that bear responsibility for the safe management of any spent fuel and radioactive waste that they produce, including its safe storage.
Although it is vital for every Member State to draw up its own national programme for spent fuel and radioactive waste, it may be an interesting alternative to look for a common solution to this issue.
I take the view, however, that such a concept can under no circumstances be a substitute, encouraging Member States to avoid their national obligations relating to the management of radioactive waste.
The proposal for a directive is designed to ensure that Member States establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste management, regardless of the perspectives of nuclear power and non-power applications.
Forty thousand cubic metres of radioactive waste is produced each year in the European Union.
The sustainable disposal of certain substances is a goal that requires ongoing monitoring and the gradual emergence of technological solutions in the long term.
In fact, research and technological development are the keystone of this sector: they will allow for the safe use of nuclear power, which is capable of meeting the energy needs of the food, medical, industrial, agricultural, research and education sectors.
As permanent rapporteur in the area of the legal basis of legislation in the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to draw attention to one aspect of the report in particular - the question of its legal basis.
In view of the controversies which are aroused by nuclear energy today and the fact that the EU institutional system has changed since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, I think the European Parliament should be included in the decision-making process in the area of nuclear energy.
This, therefore, is why I recommended Article 192 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 31 and 32 of the Euratom Treaty as the proper legal basis for this directive.
Unfortunately, because of changes to the calendar of work of the Committee on Legal Affairs, my opinion was not taken into consideration by the committee responsible for the directive - the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy - which by a very small majority voted to accept the Euratom Treaty as the only legal basis.
I voted in favour of this report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste to send a clear message to the Member States: polluters must be held responsible for their waste.
Indeed, whether it is a question of waste resulting from activities relating to the production of electricity or activities in other areas such as medicine, research and industry, the export of radioactive waste to third countries is an irresponsible practice that has been condemned by Parliament in adopting this report.
Despite the success of this vote, given the cross-border implications for the safety and health of European citizens, I regret the minor role that Parliament has been given in nuclear matters as it has only a consultative role in this matter.
Thanks to an amendment brought by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, this report underlines the need to find a new legal basis for legislation in nuclear matters in order for the interests of European citizens to be better represented on issues that are of such direct concern to them.
The tragic earthquake in Japan is an incentive for Europe to look more deeply at the consequences of nuclear technology use and its impact on the safety of European citizens.
In adopting the report on the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, Parliament is showing that it is particularly sensitive to this issue and demonstrating a clear desire to find common, definitive solutions to the storage of nuclear waste in Europe.
By calling for common minimum standards for all the Member States, we are encouraging their governments to invest in new technologies, with a view to obtaining rapid, concrete results in relation to the disposal of this extremely hazardous waste.
I therefore welcome two amendments tabled by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament calling for Parliament and the Council to co-decide on matters relating to nuclear energy use and endorsing the fundamental ban on waste exports to third countries, a ban which demonstrates Parliament's determination to shoulder its responsibilities.
Parliament's vote is therefore a further step towards the gradual abandonment of nuclear energy, in favour of sustainable energy solutions that are safe for the public.
After the incident in Fukushima in Japan, the EU must equip itself with ambitious standards and framework treaties in matters concerning nuclear power and energy policy.
I voted in favour of the Cizelj report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from the energy, medical and research sectors.
Third countries are not the 'dustbins' of the EU Member States.
I welcome the fact that the MEPs have adopted the amendment by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament on the prohibition of the mass export of waste to third countries, unless they are exported for recycling and then reimported back into the EU.
The authorisation for an EU State to export its waste to another Member State only through a bilateral agreement provides the appropriate framework for nuclear and environmental safety.
I am pleased that Parliament has opposed the storing of waste of this nature in seismic regions and that the powers of national authorities have been strengthened.
Despite the fact that the position of Parliament on the revision of the Euratom Treaty is only of consultative value, MEPs have sent a clear message to the Council: the EU must provide itself with the appropriate means to develop a responsible energy policy that it can hand on to future generations.
in writing. - The horrors at Fukushima have served to highlight the unavoidable dangers of the nuclear industry.
Whilst today's vote could have gone much further, I welcome colleagues' decision to reject the dumping of nuclear waste in third countries.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because it sets out an EU legal framework for spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
The proposal lays down specific requirements to ensure that Member States establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste management, from their generation to their disposal.
The management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is particularly important, both for the environment and for public safety.
However, we cannot guarantee safety without the appropriate funding, and I therefore believe that the decommissioning of nuclear power plants like Ignalina should not just be a concern for one Member State, in this case Lithuania, but for the whole of Europe.
Even though the nuclear industry has spent five decades looking for solutions to radioactive waste, we are, in this respect, still at square one.
Nuclear waste is transported the length and breadth of Europe in convoys that cost the taxpayer millions, entailing a high risk of accidents.
in writing. - (DE) Some time ago, I drafted a motion calling for greater safety for nuclear reactors in the Danube region.
After all, the Danube region, which lies right in the heart of Europe, is where some of the most dangerous reactors are located: Temelin, Bohunice, Mochovce, Dukovany and Paks.
However, funds are now being made available for the drafting and financing of plans for the closure of productive reactors.
in writing. - (LT) We must make every effort to ensure that we make the safest decisions in the area of spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
The accident at Fukushima nuclear power plant has shown that the disposal of radioactive waste remains a complicated and risky process that can have particularly painful negative consequences.
We must continuously exchange good practice in this area throughout the EU.
It is crucial for Member States to establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste management, from their generation to their disposal.
Given the principles of safety and economy, I believe that Member States can share spent fuel and radioactive waste management facilities, but such use must be based on an agreement between both parties.
The Member States will thus be able to take advantage of the favourable geological and technical advantages of a specific territory and share the financial burden of the project.
It should be noted that spent nuclear fuel storage basins pose an enormous risk and hazards, and therefore all unused fuel should be transferred to dry cask storage as soon as possible.
In November 2010, the Commission published a proposal for a directive establishing an EU legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
The proposal lays down specific requirements to ensure that Member States establish a national regulatory and organisational framework, and draw up appropriate national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste management, from generation up to disposal.
The Commission's proposal was well received since it was drawn up following principles already existing at international level, basing its proposals on the approaches already adopted in the most advanced Member States and providing a framework for a more responsible management, including: (i) a national framework based on a clear distribution of duties and responsibilities among those involved, (ii) a national programme ensuring milestones, timeframes and clarity of the decision-making process on radioactive waste, and (iii) balanced rules on transparency and information, oversight and control.
The proposal for a directive presented by the Commission sets out an EU legal framework for spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
The proposal lays down requirements to ensure that Member States establish a national regulatory and organisational framework, in order to be able to draw up appropriate national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste management, from their generation to their disposal.
The rapporteur identifies four main priorities among the amendments tabled in the draft report for consideration by the members of the committee.
The second is the need to ensure that adequate financial resources are set aside to meet the requirements of nuclear plant decommissioning and that the resultant waste is disposed of.
The third concerns the development of regional disposal facilities, while the fourth deals with transparency and participation of the public.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. - (RO) This proposal for a directive sets out the EU legal framework for spent fuel and radioactive waste management and revises the Commission proposal for a Council (Euratom) directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
The sustainable management of radioactive waste and spent fuel must include the waste's life cycle (from generation to temporary or final storage, as well as during the post-closure period of the storage facilities) and restoring the environment.
All these measures must be complied with to safeguard people's health and protect the environment.
Member States with nuclear power enjoy a competitive advantage over states that are nuclear-free.
However, states adjacent to countries with nuclear power plants can be adversely affected by their neighbour.
It will be recalled that in the past carbon emissions from some Member States created acid rain in other countries.
Apart from the threat of accident or terrorist attack, there is also considerable evidence of adverse health effects along Ireland's eastern seaboard attributed to Sellafield discharges.
Europe has been using nuclear technology for more than 60 years and still there is no policy on management and disposal of nuclear waste.
The 12th Congress of the International Radiation Protection Association called for a regional approach to the transport of nuclear waste.
The industry and Parliament should recognise that disposal and reprocessing is also a transnational policy area that cannot be left to individual Member States.
This directive is designed to ensure that Member States establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste management, regardless of the perspectives of nuclear power and non-power applications.
The Commission's position is commendable: it makes the Member States responsible for the safe management, including disposal, of the spent fuel and radioactive waste that they generate, through the development of their own programmes.
On the other hand, many of the amendments incorporated in the text are questionable.
On such a sensitive issue as this, maximum transparency and public information are crucial.
However, choices of this kind cannot be restricted to public participation in decision-making alone.
In fact, the danger of not laying down precise rules is that we will fail to take the decisions necessary to ensure the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
in writing. - (FR) It is important for the European Parliament to express an opinion on the revision of the Directive on Radioactive Waste.
It is a sign of responsibility and maturity to be able to turn a blind eye to divergences on whether to maintain or phase out nuclear energy and to come up with an effective policy for burying nuclear waste.
I particularly welcome the adoption of Amendments 124 and 130 which respectively call for the prohibition of the installation of nuclear waste management facilities in seismic or coastal regions which are at risk and the preparation of a safety case to accompany any radioactive waste management activity.
This inevitably requires priority to be given to deep burying solutions, such as permanent storage in dry rock or permanent storage in deep cavities (3 000 to 5 000 metres deep), which are still being examined.
I also welcome recourse in the last resort to the transport of highly radioactive waste.
We are having to express an opinion on a proposal for a directive on nuclear waste based on the Euratom Treaty and our Parliament only has a consultative opinion on this text, which is something I regret.
in writing. - Abstain.
While the outcome of today's vote is certainly a lot better than was expected, the proposed rules remain far too weak and fall far short of addressing the very real concerns with nuclear waste.
These rules aim to create perception that the problems of nuclear waste are solved but nothing could be further from the truth.
It is a huge source of relief that MEPs rejected a proposal to export nuclear waste to third countries however.
It is outrageous to suggest that, because we cannot solve the problem of nuclear waste ourselves, it is ok to dump our nuclear waste in other countries.
Hopefully this vote will convince those governments that are pushing export as a solution to drop this approach.
The ongoing disaster in Fukushima should be a wake-up call on the huge risks involved with storing nuclear waste and we welcome that MEPs have heeded this call.
in writing. - President, I have voted on the JORDAN CIZELJ report in a way in which I believe was the most responsible regarding Europe's future energy concerns.
I am referring to the fact that roughly 15% of the EU's current energy supply comes from nuclear energy.
It is therefore essential that this significant section our energy supply not be taken hostage to fear and panic in the wake of the Fukushima incident.
President I fear that these concerns have been exacerbated for political ends by certain factions here and elsewhere in Europe and I wish to make a clear stance regarding our future energy mix that is free from fear and panic and approaches the subject of nuclear energy based on science and evidence.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and my friend and colleague Ms Edit Herczog for all their efforts on this.
Well aware, as I am, that the level of such management or environmental awareness, let alone a strict culture of safety in relation to nuclear matters, is not or is barely present in many developing countries, it seems to me that allowing such exports is completely irresponsible.
Moreover, Europe must manage its own nuclear waste itself if the EU wants nuclear power so badly.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is nonetheless very pleased that a majority in this House rejected further exports and endorsed an amendment by our group that prohibits the storage of radioactive waste in seismologically active areas.
On the other hand, I could not vote in favour of this report because the rules proposed are far too weak.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report on the proposal for a Council directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste because nuclear security in the EU depends on the proper management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
Member States are ultimately responsible for spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste management.
They must ensure that information on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is made available to the relevant local and regional authorities, workers and the general public, and that these parties are effectively involved in the relevant decision-making process.
The Commission and Member States must provide, in the long term, sufficient financial resources for the activities and facilities required to manage spent fuel and waste.
Through the amendments tabled, we have called for education and vocational training plans to maintain and develop the expertise and skills required for spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
I do not support the ban on exporting radioactive waste, but I call for all the specific contracts signed between Member States and third countries to comply with Recommendation 2008/956/Euratom on criteria for the export of radioactive waste and spent fuel to third countries.
I agree with the main political message of the preliminary report, which maintains that the EU budget has a crucial role to play in helping the Member States recover from the economic and social crisis, in the sense of promoting growth and jobs.
This report also rejects the exclusive following of an approach that promotes austerity to resolve the EU's economic problems.
in writing. - I voted against the Balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the Budget committee because it wants to increase the EU budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments.
I could not vote in favour of the Conservative Party amendment to freeze the budget at 2011 levels because I firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations.
in writing. - I voted against the Balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the Budget committee because it wants to increase the EU budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments.
I could not vote in favour of the Conservative Party amendment to freeze the budget at 2011 levels because I firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations How and to what extent should ITER be financed?
The subject has now become a recurrent item on the agenda of the European Parliament.
It has been raised once again at a time when we are being asked to vote on the 2012 budget.
While the cost of the project has increased exponentially since it was launched in 2006, from EUR 6 to 16 billion, I think it must now continue with the available resources.
While research - into both fusion and fission - is a good thing (albeit diversified), I deeply regret the increase in appropriations (EUR 700 000 for 2012) as well as the anticipated financial tinkering, which would lead to part of the European research budget being emptied simply to finance ITER.
It is, however, essential to re-establish the balance between the two, especially in France, where almost 80% of the research budget is still devoted to nuclear energy.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because it outlines the general guidelines for the European Union 2012 budget and gives Members of the European Parliament powers to represent the European Parliament at trialogue negotiations with the Council and the European Commission on the 2012 draft budget.
The report stresses that next year's budget must be drawn up in such a way that it helps Europe recover from the economic and social crisis as quickly as possible.
Consequently, the Member States are urged to continue investing in areas that reinforce growth and employment, but it should also be noted that the European Union budget should support the Member States' collective efforts to consolidate national budgets in times of austerity.
The report calls for continued investment in youth education, mobility and employment, supporting and promoting small businesses, scientific innovation, social integration and poverty reduction.
in writing. - I voted against the Balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the Budget committee because it wants to increase the EU budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the proposals that called for this.
We also believe that we should firstly redistribute existing funds before we call for new resources.
However, as this proposal did not meet with a sympathetic response, we chose to abstain in the final vote.
I voted for the report on the mandate for the trialogue on the 2012 Draft Budget, because the European Union budget should foster recovery from the economic and social crisis in the Member States, by promoting growth, employment and the investment that is critical to the realisation of the Europe 2020 strategy's goals.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote in favour of the report on the mandate for the trialogue on the 2012 Draft Budget.
We believe that it is very important for work on the EU 2020 strategy to begin immediately and for the strategy to be given adequate financial resources in order to prevent a repeat of the failure of the Lisbon Strategy.
We also believe that it is important for the EU to have the resources it requires to be able to carry out its new tasks under the Treaty of Lisbon.
The payments are based on previous years' budget decisions regarding commitments and therefore the level of the payments is simply a consequence of previous undertakings.
At the same time, we are also keen for the EU to pursue a responsible budgetary policy and therefore welcome the passages stating that we will also continue to identify and evaluate negative priorities.
However, we would like to point out that we do not believe it to be necessary to continue to provide EU support for the school fruit programme and the aid for deprived persons programme, as we believe that it is better for the measures that these programmes entail to be taken at national level.
Unfortunately, it was not possible to vote on these aspects separately.
in writing. - I voted against the Balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the Budget committee because it wants to increase the EU budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments.
I could not vote in favour of the Conservative Party amendment to freeze the budget at 2011 levels because I firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations.
European strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth remains high on the Union's list of concerns, and cannot fail to be present in the preparation for the 2012 EU budget.
The role reserved for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) is extremely important, since it is SMEs that are best placed to stimulate this type of growth.
This budget is emerging at a time of particular difficulty in terms of the crisis being experienced by the peripheral countries - including Portugal - and can play an important role in how these countries conduct their efforts to get back on the path to financial stability and healthy public accounts.
I hope the trialogue on the 2012 draft budget will take place in a constructive climate and will not fail to take into account Europeans' main needs and concerns, and that it will contribute to providing the Union with adequate resources to properly fulfil the duties and responsibilities that result from these.
The intention is for the Europe 2020 strategy to start guiding the 2012 budget now.
The EU draft budget for 2012, as proposed by the Commission, amounts to EUR 147 435 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 132 738 million in payment appropriations.
It should be noted that the EU 27 annual inflation rate for 2011 is estimated at 2.7%, meaning that the proposed nominal 2012 increases of 3.7% in commitment appropriations and 4.9% in payment appropriations are, compared to the 2011 budget, in real terms 1% and 2.2%, respectively.
The specific situation of countries like Portugal demonstrates this, with more people in poverty, more unemployment and more inequality.
The 2012 draft budget should take this situation into account, supporting production in each Member State, wealth creation, the combating of unemployment and the creation of jobs with rights, the combating of social inequality and poverty, and the defence and promotion of public services.
It is unacceptable that, in the face of the extremely severe crisis affecting the most vulnerable economies in the EU, there continue to be insupportable cofinancing requirements for the use of Union funds, particularly the Structural Funds.
That is why we have been advocating the abolition or substantial reduction - to a maximum of 10% - of national contributions.
We voted against for all these reasons.
The specific situation of countries like Portugal demonstrates this, with more people in poverty, more unemployment and more inequality.
It is unacceptable that, in the face of the extremely severe crisis affecting the most vulnerable economies in the EU, there continue to be insupportable cofinancing requirements for the use of Union funds, particularly the Structural Funds.
That is why we have been advocating the abolition or substantial reduction - to a maximum of 10% - of national contributions.
The 2012 draft budget should take this situation into account, supporting production in each Member State, wealth creation, the combating of unemployment and the creation of jobs with rights, the combating of social inequality and poverty, and the defence and promotion of public services.
in writing. - (SK) Reducing the public investments of Member States in selected areas is not an appropriate solution, since the fight that the EU and the individual nation states are waging against the crisis through cost-cutting is really not the most viable approach.
If we really do have an interest in restoring economic growth and employment and intend to do so, and if we really do want to implement the Europe 2020 strategy, then growth in public investment must be greatly accelerated.
In addition to the Europe 2020 strategy, this would also be fully in accordance with the European Semester.
Among other things, this should result in the national Member State budgets and the EU budget complementing each other and working through synergy towards the fulfilment of these objectives.
The Commission, however, is inclined to postpone the necessary giant leap in terms of a common financial effort to the Multiannual Financial Framework after 2013.
in writing. - (CS) The European draft budget for 2012 will be only the second since the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force.
Precisely for this reason, it will be necessary to emphasise better coordination between all participants in the negotiating process when preparing the current trialogue, so that the European budget will secure sufficient funding to achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
These objectives promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and therefore investment into the creation of decent jobs.
I fully agree with the priorities outlined by the rapporteur, Mrs Balzani.
I also think that the EU budget should fulfil a role as the main mechanism for boosting and restoring growth and employment.
I would also like to emphasise that the rapporteur's conclusions are fully in line with the dynamic of the European Semester, which, as a new instrument for strengthening European economic management, has the objective of increasing cohesion and complementarity, as well as coordinating the EU budget and national budgets in the implementation of common EU investments, in relation to achieving the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because necessary investments - at both EU and Member State levels - must be made now and delayed no longer, to improve education levels and to foster social inclusion, particularly through the reduction of poverty, and the development of a knowledge-based society rooted in the EU's scientific and technological capacity.
In this context, we need to support research, development, innovation and SMEs and the development of resource-efficient technologies.
With today's vote Parliament has adopted the mandate for the trialogue on the 2012 budget.
As shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I am very satisfied with the final document.
It will give direction to the negotiations with the Council, which will enable us to approve the general budget of the European Union for 2012 at the end of the entire procedure.
The document specifically identifies the priorities of the European Parliament, placing the need for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, enshrined in the Europe 2020 strategy, at the centre of the 2012 budget.
I believe, in fact, that investment in these areas is the only way of pulling Europe out of the crisis and that, even in times of austerity, the EU budget can be an important tool for stimulating European action.
in writing. - (NL) The Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) is opposed to an absolute increase in the EU budget for 2012.
I voted for the report on the mandate for the trialogue on the 2012 Draft Budget.
Some people are saying that in circumstances where there are large budget deficits and high levels of debt, Member States should contribute as little as possible to the EU budget.
It is an important year from a financial perspective for EU programmes.
All Member States benefit directly or indirectly.
The proposed budget increase is an absolute necessity.
I consider this report on the mandate for the trialogue to be fairly satisfactory.
The fact that, at a time of crisis and necessary cutbacks, there has still been an increase in the resources from the European budget for heading 3a, on the management of immigration, is a good thing in my view.
It is always difficult to say where and how things should be done, but action has to be taken somewhere.
For the reasons listed above, I chose to abstain during the vote.
in writing. - (DE) The line being taken by the governments of the core Members States of the EU, the European Commission and the European Central Bank is becoming increasingly clear.
It is about time that we concentrated on stable, sovereign national economies and reducing the national debt of individual states.
This report on the mandate for the trialogue on the 2012 Draft Budget is of particular interest due to the economic times we are experiencing.
This is the second budget to be adopted under the terms of the rules set out in the Treaty of Lisbon, so it is an important exercise to establish what went wrong last year so that the process can be improved.
I voted for this report because I agree in general terms with the mandate that this report grants to Parliament's representatives in the trialogue on this issue, which will take place on 11 July 2011.
I voted in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Mrs Balzani, defining the position of Parliament in the forthcoming negotiations on the 2012 budget.
Today, the European Parliament has given instructions to those of its Members who will represent it before the Council and the Commission in the budget negotiations starting on 11 July.
If there is a message in this vote, it is that the vast majority of us are intent on warning the Council against any attempt to reduce the European budget.
in writing. - Against.
The Europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth should be central priorities when considering the future budget for 2012.
It should be mentioned that, in a context of recovery for many Member States, the European Union budget has a role to take up by reinforcing support for national investment to encourage growth.
in writing. - I am voting against Amendment 11 concerning the withholding of European funds for regions that use the 'Ley de Costas' in a retroactive way without compensation for the citizens affected.
I completely disagree with the current state of affairs regarding 'Ley de Costas', but I also think that, especially in this moment of economic crisis, it is not responsible to take such a strong stand, as hundreds of thousands of citizens would be affected if funds were withheld.
The situation of the citizens affected by 'Ley de Costas' has to be directly tackled, and I call on the Commission to put all possible pressure on the Spanish Government to achieve a positive outcome for the citizens affected, in order to protect their property rights.
I am voting in favour because, inter alia, the report includes a proposal stressing the need to assess the specific situation of the milk and dairy products sector before March 2015, in order to ensure the proper functioning and stability of the milk market.
I view this adoption as an important message from the European Parliament to let the Commission know, without taking dogma into consideration, if a decision taken years previously on the basis of certain rules will introduce real benefits when the time comes for it to enter into force, taking into account the situation 12 years later, or if it will contribute to exacerbating the situation instead.
The report also mentions that the common agricultural policy should be fairer and more equitable, with a distribution of financial resources between countries that is more balanced, and a system of direct support for farmers that is fairer and based on environmental and social criteria.
in writing. - I voted against amendment 21 of the Dess report which in the CAP sought to remove the need to co-finance appropriations for modulation and capping as a means of flat-rate aid.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report because it clearly points out that the EU agricultural budget in the next financing period has to be maintained at least at the same level as the 2013 considering that only with adequate financial resources will be possible to meet the challenges of food security and environmental protection.
Thanks to the Socialist Group's amendments now the report is more balanced and in line with the Commission Communication which recognises the need for further reform of the CAP in view of the changing nature of the farming industry in the EU27 and of the new international context of globalisation.
In fact, in the current context, the European Union needs more than ever to ensure its food independence, the quality of food products, the protection of the environment, and adequate incomes for those who contribute to this.
in writing. - (NL) A strong common agricultural policy with appropriate resources is necessary to ensure food safety.
This report demonstrates that there is acceptance of this fact amongst the elected representatives of the people and thus also amongst the citizens of the European Union.
When it comes to the structure of direct payments I completely support retaining the basic premium.
This is because European food production meets high requirements that add numerous costs for farmers without adequate recompense via the market.
It has been proposed by the Commission and Parliament that greening services be provided, in return for payment, as 'top ups' to the basic premium.
I want to stress that these must under no circumstances result in an increased regulatory burden.
Such services must therefore be provided on a voluntary basis.
The report shows that Parliament, too, is opposed to the mandatory nature of these top-ups as proposed by the Commission.
I urge that, when lists of options for greening services are compiled, attempts must be made to find projects that deliver a win-win for the environment and farmers, leading to further innovation and sustainable growth.
in writing. - (FR) This vote has caused less of a stir than the economic governance package but it is, nonetheless, a very important vote at this plenary session in Brussels.
In fact, the common agricultural policy (CAP) is becoming an increasingly important issue and, on the eve of the great debate to adjust our CAP after 2013, this vote has given us a particularly interesting road map.
The MEPs have established the major thrust of their priorities.
With this vote, the European Parliament has once again shown that it is a place where constructive consensus can be reached and that it is committed to preparing for the future.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution, because I agree that demographic change, climate change and the objectives of territorial cohesion policy demand that we review and modernise the EU's common agricultural policy.
The resolution adopted calls for us to maintain the current level of spending on agriculture in the EU budget, but urges us to reject disparities in the allocation of these funds to the Member States.
It also proposes differentiating payments among different agricultural sectors and farmers and strengthening farmers' negotiating power in the food supply chain.
The document also draws attention to the influence of agricultural policy on reducing the disparities among the various EU regions in terms of the level of territorial and economic development, and on developing rural areas and encouraging young farmers.
in writing. - (CS) It concerns me that the planned ceiling on direct payments to farmers was not removed from the report on the new agricultural policy of the EU after 2013, which the European Parliament approved today.
I would like to point out that the Czech Republic in particular, with an average farm size of 85 ha (the European average is about 15 ha) has the largest agricultural undertakings in the EU, so they would pay a heavy price for the ceiling on direct payments.
The ceiling on direct payments would mean disaster not only for Czech farmers.
Czech farmers would, in the worst-case scenario, lose up to CZK 13 billion, as a result of their weaker competitive position on the market.
In my opinion, therefore, the result of today's announcement plays into the hands of farmers from the old Member States, where farms are typically smaller.
European agriculture as a whole would then ultimately pay the price of an artificial and forced break-up of farms.
I voted in favour of the Dess report entitled 'The CAP towards 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future'.
To achieve this, a budget commensurate with the ambitious objectives to be pursued is required.
The European Union therefore calls for the EU agricultural budget in the next financial programming period to be maintained at least at the same level as the 2013 agricultural budget.
This very comprehensive report takes account of all the various interests involved.
Rural development and the interests of farmers are safeguarded, as are resource protection and the environmental policy component.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe it takes due account of the role played by the agricultural sector from an economic and employment point of view, and in the field of sustainable development and biodiversity preservation.
The abolition of historical reference values, aid to farmers with small farms, a rebalancing in favour of the livestock sector and, above all, the adoption of the principle of the degressivity of direct payments, taking employment and the environment into account, represent crucial progress in this regard.
I welcome the work carried out, which will also have made it possible to put in place tools committing agriculture to move towards more sustainable development, while taking into account the objectives of food security, the environment, territories and jobs.
The greening of payments of the first pillar will also make it possible to encourage farmers to adopt good farming practices and to be more economically and ecologically efficient.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that an excellent job has been done, despite the complexity of the issue.
Marrying food security with medium- and long-term environmental sustainability, with rural development, with a strong emphasis on the prudent management of financial resources and with aspects linked to international trade patterns required a considerable amount of skill, and I believe the rapporteur has accomplished his task very well, for which I congratulate him.
Furthermore, it is not stating the obvious to say that payments based on the two pillars of the CAP are not mere public resources, but actually buy a public good that may not be sufficiently rewarded by the market.
Cross-compliance, moreover, is an excellent criterion for preventing waste, but its use needs to be improved in practice.
The agricultural sector still plays a strategic role today in our societies and economies.
It does so fourthly and finally from an economic perspective, since a local/global approach allows for the economic development of traditional, high-quality, certified and high added value products, through the adoption of management models that turn businesses and their products into competitive cooperatives on a global scale.
I believe that the adopted report offers this possibility.
in writing. - (FR) Europeans must have access to a healthy, varied, balanced and diversified diet.
Food is a very specific issue, and encouraging competition in agriculture between the different regions of the world jeopardises the food security of our communities.
In the light of the reform applicable in 2014, the common agricultural policy must respond to the following priorities: viable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, measures for combating climate change and balanced territorial development.
I voted for the report on the common agricultural policy towards 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future, because it tables proposals that respond to new challenges like food security, environmental protection and climate change, whilst simultaneously ensuring greater territorial balance in Europe's rural areas.
in writing. - These two amendments (10 and 11) were supported to stop a cap or ceiling being introduced for direct payments.
Agriculture should be viewed as an economic activity that generates wealth and development, within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Sustainable, productive and competitive European agriculture enables the challenges of security of supply in the food and energy sectors, of climate change, of the environment and biodiversity, of health, and of demographic change in the EU to be met.
It should be noted that the world population is predicted to grow from 7 billion to more than 9 billion by 2050, requiring a 70% increase in global agricultural production according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation.
More food will therefore need to be produced against a background of higher production costs, severe volatility in agricultural markets and mounting pressure on natural resources, meaning that farmers will have to produce more using less land, less water and reduced energy inputs.
I also believe particular attention should be paid to small farmers, since they make a significant contribution to CAP objectives.
This report comes in the wake of the previously drafted Lyon report on the broad strokes of common agricultural policy (CAP) reform, and of the Commission communication on the CAP, of which it is largely in favour.
Despite important aspects, which we acknowledge, such as the refusal to cut the CAP's overall budget or the proposal to keep planting rights in the wine sector, the report's content is profoundly negative, advocating a CAP whose consequences constitute a very clear step towards the decline and destruction of Portuguese agriculture.
Given the profound injustice today existing between countries, producers and products, the advocated redistribution of CAP funds cannot be dissociated from the guarantee of minimising losses by the major beneficiaries... (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) We voted against this report because it responds to neither the challenges of the future, nor the serious problems of the present.
We regret that they have not been adopted in their entirety, specifically those advocating instruments for regulating markets and for intervention mechanisms that guarantee a fair price for farmers and each country's right to produce.
However, we will continue to advocate the maintenance of a system of milk-production quotas as an essential condition for defending producers in the countries that are more sensitive, the maintenance of planting rights in the wine sector, and the maintenance of subsidies for potable alcohol distillation and crisis distillation.
We will also continue to fight for the creation of an EU-funded public agricultural insurance scheme, which would enable farmers to be guaranteed a minimum income in cases of natural disaster.
in writing. - (SK) The common agricultural policy (CAP) faces a whole series of challenges - some of them specific and others unexpected - as a result of which the EU must adopt strategic decisions relating to the long-term future of its agriculture and its rural areas.
It must also support agricultural communities which provide European citizens with a wide range of high-quality and wholesome foods.
Last but not least, it must contribute to maintaining viable rural communities, for which agriculture is an important economic activity, creating local jobs.
The ongoing reform of the CAP should aim to achieve more sustainable, more intelligent and more inclusive growth for Europe's rural areas.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Deß report on the common agricultural policy, which evaluates the communication from the European Commission on the CAP towards 2020.
Of note, the Deß report stresses the important role that agriculture can play in the Europe 2020 strategy.
In my opinion, the most important element at this stage in the reform process is to maintain the current budgetary support for the CAP for the period 2014 to 2020.
Hopes are high regarding the very important and sensitive matter of the common agricultural policy.
We are in the middle of what will be a long and complex journey, because we have to give answers to farmers and, at the same time, tackle the global challenges of food security.
Progress and technological innovation will play a key role in the new CAP.
Another crucial point in the report is the endorsement of a decisive reduction in red tape for farmers and national authorities, in order to simplify the numerous administrative obligations in the sector.
The CAP also needs to contribute towards the achievement of the ambitious objectives contained in the Europe 2020 strategy; in other words we need a greener and more sustainable CAP that will guarantee additional funding for farmers while recognising their role in protecting the environment, and that will help them choose environmentally friendly farming techniques.
Lastly, it is important to develop transparent and efficient instruments that can help farmers to run short production chains, promote quality and provide information to consumers, thereby promoting fair and transparent price formation.
I voted in favour of this report on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
As a result of the negotiations and the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, this document, though still too vague, has evolved significantly and is now trying to bring about real reform of the CAP.
I then voted against the paragraph on payments to support genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and for the paragraph on the withdrawal of GMOs, and I supported the paragraph opposing the funding of the production of food from cloned animals and their offspring and descendants.
With regard to the reform of the wine market, I am in favour of retaining planting rights.
It calls for the common agricultural policy for 2014-2020 to be reviewed in order to meet the challenges of environmental sustainability, job creation and guaranteed high-quality, safe food.
In adopting this text, the European Parliament is demonstrating its opposition to regressive tendencies and proposing that the future CAP budget remain at least at the same level as the 2013 budget, thereby ensuring that farmers receive the support they need to invest in new technologies, a crucial step if this sector is to remain competitive.
The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament has made a decisive contribution - partly as a result of the numerous amendments tabled both in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and in plenary - to achieving a convincing result, thereby sending a clear message to the European Commission ahead of the legislative proposals scheduled for October.
in writing. - (FR) I believe that this report is a definite step forward for a strong, sustainable common agricultural policy (CAP) and, for that reason, I voted in favour.
We have sent out a clear message, which is structured around three priorities: to enable all European citizens to access food; to encourage farmers to change their working methods by focussing on biodiversity issues, the management of water and soil pollution problems, and the recycling of waste; and, finally, to protect employment in farming while at the same time minimising its impact on the territories.
This could be done through better allocation of direct payments, a different type of market regulation, and prioritising sustainable development.
in writing. - It is important that we have a strong and sustainable CAP and the ongoing work on its reform is one of the key issues before this Parliament.
The agriculture sector must be innovative and competitive, and those working in my own country remain committed to playing their valuable role in the wider European sector.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document, because a sustainable, productive and competitive European agricultural sector can make a vital contribution to meeting the objectives set by the Treaties for the CAP and the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy, and it can also help to meet new political challenges such as security of supply of food, energy and industrial raw materials, climate change, the environment and biodiversity, health and demographic change in the EU.
I very much welcome the Commission Communication 'The CAP towards 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future'.
I firmly believe that the most important objective is to distribute assistance fairly among the Member States and the different categories of farmers.
At present, new Member States, like Lithuania, receive less financial assistance than the old Member States.
Last spring, together with a group of fellow MEPs, I addressed a statement to the European Commission, the European Council and Parliament on the harmonisation of direct payments for the farmers of all Member States of the Community.
We have made significant progress on the issue of direct payments, emphasising that it is essential to define appropriate minimum and maximum support levels, expressed as a percentage of the EU average, which farmers of every Member State may receive.
This will help to alter the current absurd and unfair situation, where the amount of support can differ by up to a factor of as much as six, thereby putting farmers from several Member States in unequal circumstances and distorting competition between European farmers.
I should like to emphasise that the transition period must be as short as possible, and I consider that for those Member States whose farmers receive the smallest direct payments, the equalisation process must begin as early as 2014.
A transition period that lasted up to as late as 2020 would mean that a whole generation of farmers would continue to be forced to work in circumstances of unfair competition.
We must, however, recognise that the European Parliament still has important work ahead of it, for there are questions the solutions to which are sketched in general terms only in the Dess report, as Members' opinions on the solution to the relevant problem differed or were even diametrically opposed.
in writing. - (DE) In voting on the CAP report, we are deciding on the cornerstones of future EU agricultural policy.
I welcome the decision that agricultural policy is to become more sustainable, that the competitiveness of European agriculture is to be strengthened and that a balance is to be sought between old and new Member States.
I am vehemently opposed to cuts in the EU agricultural budget because I believe that the common agricultural policy must remain a key area in the EU budget.
For the citizens of the EU, the services are essential for food quality and safety, animal welfare and environmental standards and for the vitality of rural areas.
The market does not reward these additional services.
Agricultural funds are service-related payments that enable reliable planning for farming families.
Only the interplay between the first and second pillars enables both innovative competitiveness and sustainability.
The second pillar is a strong element for sustainable agriculture.
A ceiling for direct payments is also open to debate.
Agricultural policy must remain a key element of European policy.
An intense debate has been taking place in recent months in order to reconcile the requirements, expectations and needs not only of farmers but also of European citizens as a whole.
The CAP is a policy of and for everyone.
From its beginnings until now, the CAP has undergone a number of reforms that testify to its support for agriculture that is constantly evolving in order to better respond to the numerous challenges that we have had to face.
I welcome this vote, which is an achievement for the European Parliament.
For the first time, it is expressing the wishes of 27 countries with regard to the future of EU agriculture.
The aim of the CAP is to support our farmers and to respond to major challenges: to produce enough food to feed our 500 million fellow citizens and to contribute to feeding the rest of the world.
Since the CAP was last reformed, the challenges have evolved: growing world demand for food, internationalisation of agricultural trade and price volatility, climate change, energy crisis, scarcity of available natural resources, and questioning of the role and purpose of the CAP by our citizens.
All these issues should be included in the CAP after 2013 and should be taken into account when it is reformed.
I also welcome the European Parliament's desire to help small farmers as well as young farmers, especially when they are starting up.
Finally, it is important that the CAP guarantee farmers better incomes, the latter having dwindled steadily in recent decades and standing now at half the incomes of urban households.
Economic growth and the development of society are to a great extent dependent on the health of the citizens.
The quality of the products we eat and the way in which they are produced have fundamental significance for our health, and this is therefore why the health of the European Union's citizens should be an important aspect of our agricultural policy.
I think the report on the CAP towards 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future is moving in the wrong direction, so I voted against it.
I voted for the Dess report, since I am in favour of a common agricultural policy reform that reflects the changing nature of the EU's agricultural sector.
The report provides for a simplified CAP structured around two pillars: the first pillar being fully financed by the EU budget and the second pillar providing for multiannual programming and a cofinancing approach.
Furthermore, I support this report because it mentions the need to maintain the EU's agricultural budget for the next - post-2013 - financing period.
Adequate financial resources are crucial in order to meet the challenges of food security, environmental protection, climate change and territorial balance in the EU following its enlargement to the East.
The Dess report also calls for the development of food quality policy with geographical indications (protected designations of origin (PDO) and protected geographical indications (PGI)), a necessary measure if we are to ensure the authenticity of local and regional food specialities.
Forty-two per cent of the people working in agriculture are women, but only one holding in five is managed by a woman.
I voted in favour of the report on the common agricultural policy (CAP) after 2013 to ensure that the CAP budget is kept at its current level until 2020.
Most farmers are sensitive to this issue and choose environmentally friendly production methods.
The contribution of agriculture to the protection of the environment should therefore be recognised and included in the objectives of the CAP post 2013.
In this respect, I support the Commission proposals for a system of incentives financed by the EU to support farmers who move towards sustainable development.
This report aims to replace the link with production in the new system of direct support for farmers with environmental and social criteria.
It calls for the introduction of a degressive model of direct payments according to the size of an agricultural holding, and for these to be reserved exclusively for active farmers who use farmland for production and maintain it in a good agricultural and environmental condition.
It makes changes relating to price volatility, and calls for solutions to be created, at global level, to combat speculation on agricultural commodities and extreme price volatility.
It also advocates a safety net and promotes the association of small farmers.
Some of the problems caused by the market are diagnosed, and greater emphasis is given to environmental and social issues.
The benefits of these points should be recognised, and they should be further fleshed out.
Nevertheless, the solutions tabled in the report are along the lines of deepening these same market mechanisms that are responsible for the current crisis of volatile prices and unequal distribution of profits throughout the production chain.
That is why I abstained.
in writing. - (FR) This document proposes several interesting developments such as freedom from fossil energy, support for short production chains, strengthening producers' negotiating power, and the establishment of a worldwide notification and coordinated action system for agricultural stocks.
Unfortunately, it does not put a monetary figure on any of these advances.
The common agricultural policy (CAP) should be reformed so that it can better respond to the challenges of food security, climate change, the sustainable management of natural resources, landscape management and maintaining a vibrant rural economy.
It is necessary to make the sector more competitive and the CAP fairer, ecological, profitable, effective and efficient.
The report represents a move in the right direction in that it makes every effort to make farming more dynamic and competitive, so that it is better equipped to meet the objectives set by the Europe 2020 strategy.
In addition, the report provides for the maintenance of appropriate budget resources after 2013, which is, in itself, a victory.
The common agricultural policy has historically been the main and most important area of EU intervention, and it is still crucially important today.
This report, which I fully support, does well to highlight the value of agriculture, from both a food and a rural development and land preservation point of view.
The CAP has already been radically (and rightly) reformed in the past: the new challenges that we face concern its further simplification and compliance.
Smaller agribusinesses often incur heavy costs when complying with health and environmental rules.
I therefore welcome the request for a possible adjustment of these rules to reflect the varying conditions on farms.
The CAP can lend itself to fraud and deception, so it is also right to identify genuinely 'active' farmers at European level in order to prevent an unacceptable waste of resources.
Lastly, I should like to stress the need to strongly oppose speculation by the international markets on food prices: I consider it unacceptable for high finance to be able to influence at will a strategic sector such as this, which ensures people's food supply and very survival.
The report supports the reduction in the differences between the funds received as direct payments by the various Member States, regions and sectors.
Mr Dess's report also takes into account the problem relating to livestock farmers in the countries applying the Single Area Payment Scheme (SAPS), the majority of whom do not own the land and, therefore, do not receive direct payments.
I hope that the Commission will consider this issue and suggest a solution to it.
During the vote I also expressed support for small agricultural producers, as well as the provision of cheaper fuel and lower excise taxes for agricultural producers.
This is also one of the reasons why I voted in favour of this report.
Member States and regions must be able to set their own priorities themselves so that genuine development can be achieved in rural areas.
Flexibility is important because the situation varies in the different Member States.
I believe that this offers an effective method of combating depopulation in rural areas.
in writing. - The ECR supported this report because it is a significant improvement on the Commission communication and keeps the spirit of previous market-based reforms alive.
It also focuses on the challenge of greening the CAP through primarily rural development measures.
However, the ECR does not support the capping of payments to large farms or proposals to extend market intervention to other sectors.
We therefore supported all amendments opposing capping.
The Commission proposal includes greening of payments in Pillar 1, the reintroduction of set-aside, a focus on social policy and an increase in the role of Article 68, which allows for the reintroduction of coupled payments in some sectors.
These are all backward steps which will further complicate the CAP and do nothing to help farmers respond to market forces.
Although the Deß report includes weaker elements of some of these proposals, unlike the Commission communication, it does not undermine the pro-market direction of travel of previous reforms.
The ECR group therefore supported the final report, although we do not support all the provisions contained in it.
in writing. - (LT) A sustainable, productive and competitive agricultural sector guarantees security, in terms of food and natural resources, as well as territorial balance.
Given the fact that world populations are only set to increase, global agricultural production will also have to increase accordingly.
We must therefore strive to ensure that we create a strong and sustainable CAP that matches the changing nature of the agricultural industry in all Member States.
We must make the best decisions to help combat rural decline and counter the possible pressure on the agricultural economy from third countries.
Direct payments are a legitimate source of income for Europe's farmers.
It is crucial for market regulation measures and intervention mechanisms to be implemented, in order to ensure that products are fairly priced and that farmers receive an adequate level of income that guarantees the continuation of production and a regular supply of food.
This report aims to replace the link with production in the new system of direct support for farmers with environmental and social criteria.
It calls for the introduction of a degressive model of direct payments according to the size of an agricultural holding that are reserved exclusively for active farmers who use farmland for production and maintain it in a good agricultural and environmental condition.
It makes changes relating to price volatility, and calls for solutions to be created, at global level, to combat speculation on agricultural commodities and extreme price volatility.
It also advocates a safety net and promotes the association of small farmers.
Some of the problems caused by the market are diagnosed, and greater emphasis is given to environmental and social issues.
The benefits of these points should be recognised, and they should be further fleshed out.
Nevertheless, the solutions tabled in the report are along the lines of deepening these same market mechanisms that are responsible for the current crisis of volatile prices and unequal distribution of profits throughout the production chain.
That is why I abstained.
in writing. - I particularly welcome the proposals in this report to protect and encourage young farmers, through grant schemes and other measures.
The age profile in farming remains skewed towards the older age group: 34.1% of farmers in the EU are over 65, while only 6.1% of farmers are under 35.
Because of this, the new CAP must include transitional arrangements in established sectors subjected to radical change going forward.
Change is always difficult but the agriculture sector must adapt to market realities.
Global demand and greater realisation of the need for food security means agriculture will be a growth area for the EU going forward and particularly important for less developed economies.
The new CAP needs to effectively target the areas of inefficiency by incentivising new practices.
That means the CAP budget must be maintained at its current level and index-linked post-2013.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting against the inclusion of the wine market reform - and other specific sectors - not because I am generally against the idea, but because individual branches of production should not be mentioned at this stage of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - (FR) The common agricultural policy (CAP) is the only truly European policy.
I cite as evidence the continuous decline in the number of agricultural holdings in Belgium and the staggering decrease in the number of jobs (down 56% in 30 years).
It is clear that rules need to be laid down to regulate the market and that small farms, which have so far been forgotten in successive reforms, need to be helped.
We must keep the EU agricultural budget at the current level until 2020 to ensure that farmers receive incentives to provide stocks of safe food products, to protect the environment, to create new jobs and to ensure the competitiveness of the EU agricultural sector.
This vote sends a clear and strong message to the Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, Dacian Cioloş.
Although EU agricultural policy aims to provide safe, high-quality food products and contributes to the protection of the environment and to renewable energies, it must be adequately financed so as to encourage farmers to use modern, environmentally sound techniques.
The fight against speculation on agricultural commodities and extreme price volatility require a global-level solution to ensure greater stability for farmers and the large-scale supply of safe food products.
in writing. - (FR) Although the idea of introducing an upper ceiling for direct payments in the light of the size of the agricultural holdings may appear laudable, I am in no doubt that it would simply result in the implementation of technical arrangements by those agricultural holdings that would otherwise exceed the authorised limit in order to continue to receive European subsidies.
However, I am all in favour of introducing another system to allocate more funds to small agricultural holdings, for example by introducing a system of degressivity of direct payments in the light of the size of the holdings.
That is why I voted for Amendments 10 and 11 and for paragraph 25.
The report therefore has my backing.
in writing. - (FR) In favour.
After this historic vote by the European Parliament, Europe is committed to putting this obsession with productivity in agriculture behind it.
The Member States still need to assume their collective responsibility and the Commission still has to transpose this new direction into legislation.
After the failures of the reforms of 1992, 1999 and 2003, another capitulation to the interests of lobbies would spell the end of the hopes of millions of farmers and of 500 million European citizens.
I voted in favour of this report because I share the rapporteur's views concerning the focal points of the common agricultural policy reform for the period after April 2013.
Firstly, if the CAP is to contribute towards the achievement of the Europe 2020 objectives, the EU agricultural budget for the next financing period should be maintained at least at the same level as the 2013 agricultural budget.
Lastly, if the European Union is to continue to play a leading role in this sector, then food quality and safety, which are the raison d'être of agriculture at EU and world level, must be strengthened further.
in writing. - (FR) The common agricultural policy (CAP) is one of the oldest policies at Community level.
It is a policy that has proved its worth and one that I am determined to support, as are many colleagues and citizens.
This report, which I supported in plenary, clearly demonstrates the developments in the agricultural world, which bring with them new challenges for the future.
There are also new concerns, such as the need to combat the volatility of agricultural prices in order to guarantee greater food security, or the need to take account of environmental protection.
In the face of all these challenges, the solution can only be found at European level.
in writing. - (NL) The common agricultural policy of the future must guarantee everyone access to healthy and locally-produced food.
I advocate that an end should be put to the dumping of Europe's overproduction on the markets of the South because this market-disrupting practice devastates local producers there.
I therefore voted in favour of all amendments that limit the subsidies on a per person per business basis and also of those amendments that ensure a greening of the subsidies.
I therefore also supported those amendments that back ecologically 'low input' agriculture and gave my backing to those amendments that tackle the enormous concentration of the market in favour of agribusiness and retailing.
I therefore also supported those amendments that back small, family-run businesses and I voted against the pernicious mass imports of soya into Europe.
The main objective of the common agricultural policy (CAP), enshrined in Article 39 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is 'to increase agricultural productivity by promoting technical progress and by ensuring the rational development of agricultural production and the optimum utilisation of the factors of production, in particular labour'.
I am voting for this report because I believe that it contains measures that strengthen and guarantee the post-2013 CAP's sustainability whilst also contributing to achieving the objectives enshrined in the Europe 2020 strategy, and that it takes into account the clear differences between new and old Member States.
I consider it crucial that the CAP foster the development of safe and healthy foodstuffs, intended, not just for the general public, but also for the food industry in particular.
Administrative measures cutting red tape when farmers are preparing their applications should also be introduced, in order to facilitate access to EU funds.
Finally, I voted for the amendment on milk, as I do not agree with the European Commission's call for the milk quotas system to be abolished, which will only exacerbate the already precarious position of national producers.
In voting against the report, the Greek Communist Party voted against the CAP as a whole, both current and 'new', which has ruined small and medium-sized holdings and promotes agricultural development on the basis of the criterion of the profitability of the monopoly food companies.
The report includes the 'new' CAP in the anti-grassroots Europe 2020 strategy, in the aim of ruining small and medium-sized holdings and concentrating land, production, subsidies and trade solely in the hands of the capitalist agricultural companies.
At the same time, the principles set out for a competitive/viable/fair CAP, in conjunction with the decoupling of production from direct payments, will benefit large land owners.
The previous review of the CAP did the groundwork, resulting in a drastic reduction over the last two years in the real per capita income of farmers and a reduction in employment in the agricultural sector.
Today, Polish Members of the European Parliament voted against the resolution on the common agricultural policy after 2013.
In our opinion, the proposals contained in the parliamentary resolution are intended to maintain the existing state of affairs and may harm the competitiveness of both Polish and European agriculture.
in writing. - On the amendment 10 ,which I have voted in favour, not because I do not want to end up the system that allows large agro holdings to receive millions of Euros of public money; I do want to introduce an upper-ceiling for direct payments.
The problem, I see here, as I do want to tackle the real problem, is that the large holdings that receives these big amounts of money can easily split up for only accountancy purposes and then nothing will be changed.
The public money will be in the same current account instead of helping our small and medium producers that are the ones which do really need this payment.
in writing. - (LT) Lithuanian farmers work hard and make a significant contribution to our society.
However, there is a limit to what they are able to achieve if local infrastructure and funding are insufficient.
If the future CAP is to receive the approval of EU taxpayers, it must guarantee food security and jobs.
Last year exports of agricultural products from my country were worth EUR 2.6 billion, and farmers in Lithuania account for 7.1% of the entire workforce, whereas the EU average is 4.8%.
The CAP must help us build competitive, sustainable farms and a vibrant rural economy.
According to EU statistical data published last month, Lithuania is still trying to catch up - in Lithuania, 51.5% of CAP payments are going towards rural development, whereas in the EU27 the corresponding figure is 23.3%.
We must continue to support our farmers' efforts to modernise their farms.
I would like to say that I voted against the Dess report.
Despite the fact that the report contains many good measures, it is unfavourable to agriculture in Europe, because it does not support the idea of full alignment of direct payments, it strengthens discrimination against the new Member States, and it also maintains the absurd situation in which, in the area of agriculture, the wealthy countries are helped more, and the poor ones less.
in writing. - (SK) Food production is related to people's health and safety.
It is right and proper for the Union to do everything to ensure that food coming to the European market is of a high quality.
This confirms once again that the common agricultural policy is not about efficient production.
