Quality of statistical data in the Union and enhanced auditing powers by the Commission (Eurostat) (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Mr Karas and Mrs Bowles, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the quality of statistical data in the Union and enhanced auditing powers by the Commission (Eurostat) - B7-0314/2010).
author. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Rehn, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is an important political signal that the European Parliament wants to send in these times.
We want seamless cooperation, we want to strengthen the coordination function and we want the Commission to tell us before we conclude our report whether everything that has been agreed with the Council so far is sufficient.
author. - Mr President, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is consistent and united in its view that Eurostat has to be strengthened and we have, for a long time, been in pursuit of establishing higher quality statistical data.
The original proposal to this effect was made in 2005, but it was then rejected by the Member States.
As regards this proposal, the general approach agreed upon by the Ecofin Council on 8 June last week confirms the importance of ensuring high quality statistics on government debt and deficit and acknowledges the role of the Commission and Eurostat for that purpose.
I have discussed this also with my colleague Michel Barnier and the Commission President.
The quality of statistical governance lies at the heart of the crisis in the eurozone.
Eurostat must not maintain this myth of comparability at any price; rather, the comparability of the euro area countries must be fundamentally rethought. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, allow me to start by expressing my total satisfaction about the comment you made earlier about yesterday's sudden and unwarranted decision by the Moody's credit rating agency to downgrade Greece's credit rating, a decision which you called unfortunate and erroneous, thereby confirming that our decision to proceed with a radical review of the operating framework of these firms in European territory and to seriously examine the possibility of creating a public European credit rating agency was correct.
We need to establish a plan for Eurostat.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me thank you for a very substantive debate and your support for this proposal to reinforce Eurostat's powers.
I must say that I agree with Mrs Jaakonsaari that we have seen a sea change - a real cultural change - as regards the attitudes concerning economic policy coordination in Europe in recent months.
Consequently, the Commission is currently not in a position to undertake an assessment of the Bulgarian budgetary plans for this year.
Instead, Eurostat will focus on potential risks to past data on the excessive deficit procedure for the year 2009 relating to previously undeclared government contractual commitments.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 16 June 2010.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (HU) The European Parliament must take a stand on a very important issue in today's debate, namely, the direction the statistical information system currently operating under the authority of Eurostat should take in order to avoid situations similar to the Greek scandal in the future.
