This situation emerged as a consequence of the financial and economic crisis and we have to face dramatic consequences, but this situation did not deter the European Commission from proposing ambitious objectives in the Europe 2020 strategy, and the European Union has set ambitious targets to meet in the not too distant future.
The agenda proposes 13 specific actions at EU level to be carried out in partnership with governments, social partners and civil society.
One of the lessons learned in the past two years is that flexicurity policies have contributed to weathering the crisis.
We now propose to discuss with Member States and social partners all components of flexicurity and how to improve them, building on the EU common principles of flexicurity.
This is the reason why we need to invest in people and in their capacity to innovate, to create new enterprises and new jobs.
Jobs occupied by highly qualified people are expected to rise by 16 million between now and 2020, while those held by low skilled workers will decline by around 12 million over the same period.
There are more than 80 million adults in Europe hampered by severe deficiencies in basic skills.
The low qualified have very few opportunities to participate in continuous training in all Member States.
Secondly, we need to provide people with the right skills for employment.
Europe needs not only to upgrade the skills of people already in the labour market but also to ensure that people get, from the start, the right mix of skills to adapt and evolve in a fast-changing society.
Moreover, in order to develop a knowledge-based society, we need our children to be better at science, maths and technology.
Finally, even in times of crisis and high unemployment rates, some employers are reporting difficulties in recruiting.
Flexibility and security need to go hand in hand and, in our opinion, priority needs to be given to security.
That immediately puts me in mind of seconded workers and I think and ask myself: if I have a passport with exceptional skills and I come from country A and I go and work in country B, will the question of my contract of employment have been resolved?
The craft sector offers employment potential and a unique wealth of knowledge that must be used to sustain the competitiveness of the European system. (IT) Mr President, Mr Andor, Mrs Vassiliou, ladies and gentlemen, we have set ourselves the goal of identifying the needs of the job market in the coming years.
I would very much like to see the Commission making improvements in this area. (DE) Mr President, Mr Andor, Mrs Vassiliou, it is true that combating unemployment and the goal of full employment together represent one of our most urgent tasks.
This must become a general rule once again and we must work towards this on a European level and choose the right course.
In my view, this will not create any new jobs.
When the labour market is opened up to the countries of Eastern Europe in 2011, the EU will be obliged to take measures to protect citizens in those Member States that will be particularly affected by the opening up of the labour market.
More targeted training, real education directed at acquiring knowledge and abilities that serve the labour market, development of young people through their training and their knowledge - which must be enriched on a daily basis - and a labour market that needs new skills, but which needs to put migratory flows to the best possible use.
The agenda for creating new jobs and new skills must be linked to the Union's industrial policy and innovation policy.
We want to facilitate more mobility, because we believe that the young generation is the one that can better take advantage of the integrated European labour market and develop their own skills and improve their competitiveness through taking advantage not only of the market itself but also of the institutions that the European Union provides.
This is obviously not a policy that can be so specific as to address this situation, but it does apply to Greece and to Ireland.
