Emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles (debate) The next item is the report by Martin Callanan, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council setting emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles as part of the Community's integrated approach to reduce CO2 emissions from light-duty vehicles - C7-0271/2009 -.
Because of this, it has been my belief throughout the process that it is crucial to have an ambitious but realistic long-term target and an appropriate short-term target that takes into account both the needs of industry product cycles and the need for environmental improvement.
It has always been the long-term target that has been the main focus throughout our debate.
The Commission's original proposal was 135g CO2/km, which was deemed by many sources to be simply unachievable.
Similarly, LCVs, as their name implies, are used mainly for commercial purposes.
In the end, the package that we have all agreed on, and which is before you today, has a fairly sensible compromise position of 147g CO2/km.
However, in this case, a first-reading agreement provides clarity and certainty to a sector that is still suffering in the wake of the global economic crisis, whilst also setting the bar for the tough but fair environmental standards that we all wish to see.
The compromise will also generate lifetime net savings for consumers, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, of over EUR 2 200 per vehicle.
In our rush to cut emissions, however, we should not undermine the competitiveness of European car manufacturers.
In technical terms, we could have achieved a great deal more, but the costs would definitely have been passed on to the SMEs and that would not have produced the desired results.
We will have to wait for a few years to find out whether this regulation is a good one, because that will only be the case if we actually reach the required emission levels.
Even though we could, in my opinion, have gone further with regard to the limit, the legislation that we are adopting today is still the strictest in the world for light commercial vehicles.
Mrs Hedegaard has already said that, outside the Emissions Trading System, these small sector-specific pieces of legislation which we are introducing are very important in allowing us to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves.
With a limit of 147 grams, which is the equivalent of 5.6 litres of diesel, vehicles will produce less pollution.
My group is voting in favour of this compromise package because it includes an important point which states that we must evaluate in 2014 at the latest whether the targets that we are adopting today have been met or exceeded and whether we need to make adjustments in this area.
Our current test cycles are not realistic and we need to make improvements in this area.
Mr President, in the discussion about whether or not it is sensible to come to an agreement during the first reading, we should not stick as closely to our principles as some Members have recommended.
In the case of the regulation of CO2 emissions from light commercial vehicles, it is clear that the positions of the institutions were not very far apart.
We should not try to persuade ourselves that a CO2 limit for light commercial vehicles will save the world's climate.
Moreover, not even the economy will benefit from this, because no one is expecting the price of petrol in 2020 to be around SEK 13 or EUR 1.30 per litre.
The planning horizon for the industry will be worse because consumers in 2020 will almost certainly demand cars that emit no more than 120 g CO2/km.
However, I would chiefly like to thank the rapporteurs and the lead rapporteur, Martin Callanan, for the work they have done.
In this case, I strongly disagree with what was said by the previous speaker, Carl Schlyter.
I would like to end by thanking all of the rapporteurs.
I regard the compromise that has been reached as an outstanding piece of work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin discussing light commercial vehicles, I would like to remind you that European car manufacturers have achieved the EU's CO2 product targets for cars several years before the deadline in 2015, by taking the appropriate technical measures.
The manufacturers have taken the same approach in their lobbying activities concerning the CO2 reduction targets for light commercial vehicles.
The Commission proposed a reduction target of 135 grams of CO2 per kilometre.
Instead of this, under pressure from the Council, a poor compromise was reached behind closed doors, according to which car manufacturers must now reduce the CO2 emissions of light commercial vehicles to only 197 grams of CO2 per kilometre by 2020.
I have a grave concern that this legislation will put small businesses like my father's out of business for ever, because we are told that this legislation will, in fact, put up to EUR 5 000 on the price of vans.
Globally, 2010 was one of the two hottest years in recorded history.
I am very pleased with the negotiations, which led to an agreement with the Council to limit emissions to 147g CO2/km by 2020.
The agreement reached takes account of the economic crisis that the sector is experiencing and also makes reasonable allowances for the difference between the passenger car sector and the light commercial vehicles sector.
Despite these problematic issues, an agreement was reached with the Council at first reading that sets the emissions limit to be achieved by 2020 at 147g CO2/km, subject to feasibility, which must be assessed by the Commission before January 2013.
It is, moreover, an industry that is committed to the European Union's objective of reducing emissions and to technological innovation.
This agreement is a stable framework that gives legal certainty to our vehicle manufacturers.
I believe that the targets for reducing emissions are both ambitious and realistic.
Manufacturers will have to achieve 147 grams of CO2 per kilometre by 2020.
We will now finally also have a regulatory instrument for emissions from light commercial vehicles, and that is important.
What we are seeing is an environmental and industrial policy decision that has clearly been influenced by the economic crisis and by the fact that so many European governments, conservative, right-leaning governments, have chosen to respond to this economic crisis by simply making cuts and not making any investments.
I would point out that the Commission had suggested a target of 135 grams per kilometre by 2020.
The study notes that car manufacturers in Europe reduced CO2 emissions for non-commercial vehicles by 2-10% in 2009, and that one Japanese manufacturer has all but reached its target six years early.
I should like to note that CO2 emissions from these vehicles are currently around 200 g per square kilometre.
We must therefore be very careful.
I applaud the work that has been done, but we do need to exercise careful supervision. (NL) Mr President, the text before us is, indeed, a compromise and we would have liked to have been a little more ambitious here and there, particularly when it comes to the timing and the level of the penalties.
The trend is heading in the right direction, but - as you have said yourself - the number of LCVs has increased enormously in recent years and it looks as if that number will continue to rise in years to come.
By restricting emissions to 147 grams per kilometre from 2020, we are setting very clear standards.
Small vans are primarily used by tradespeople, small and medium-sized companies, farmers and winegrowers.
The long-term goal of 2020 leaves enough time for transition periods so that research organisations and the industry can develop and manufacture new engines.
I hope that it will receive broad support. (PL) Mr President, everyone involved in road transport, both manufacturers of passenger vehicles and manufacturers of light commercial vehicles, should contribute to limiting overall CO2 emissions.
The extension of the amendment period until 2018 is positive and will make research into, and the production of, non-polluting vehicles more attractive.
Secondly, like Mr El Khadraoui, I deplore the absence of speed limitation devices, as it means that we will continue to be overtaken on motorways by the only vehicles that no longer keep to the speed limit, namely, light commercial vehicles. (RO) Mr President, this regulation marks a step forward in terms of gradually achieving the CO2 emission reduction targets for light commercial vehicles in Europe.
However, I do not think that the new legislation on CO2 reduction should jeopardise the position of either car manufacturers or the customer.
The new regulations must pay heed to the concerns of SMEs and European car manufacturers, which are asking for the gradual introduction of the pollution limits to start after 2015, as the vehicles which will be sold in 2014 are already at the development and production stage.
The figure of 147 grams is an acceptable compromise compared to the figures which have been mentioned.
However, the Commission must monitor closely relations between the car industry and users to assess this measure's impact on prices and, by extension, on the activity of small enterprises. (PL) Mr President, the manufacture of light commercial vehicles and related technological issues require much greater investment and a longer-term strategic plan and manufacturing cycle than is the case for passenger vehicles.
On the other hand, we should not neglect the target limit of 147 g to be achieved by 2020.
The initial short-term goal which has been set of a limit of 175 g, with a view to achieving the goal of 147 g by 2020, will significantly increase the cost of manufacturing light commercial vehicles, making them more expensive for many small companies which use them as tools for their daily work.
I hope that this will not result in a marked drop in sales of new vehicles, which, in turn, would mean that technologically older vehicles which are responsible for much higher levels of emissions would stay on the roads longer. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise reached with the Council certainly seems more balanced and realistic compared with the initial proposal of the Commission, which was so ambitious that it appeared utopian in parts, as it did not take industrial conditions and the impact on the market into due consideration.
Therefore, I would now like you to tell us, following the debate and before the vote in a few hours' time, what the procedure you are going to adopt for the next two years consists of, since a review is due to take place in 2013, thus allowing us without delay, as our group rapporteur Mr Groote wanted, to take this fight further in order to reduce pollution by these light commercial vehicles.
That is my question to you, Commissioner, and I know that you will be tenacious so that we can make progress in spite of this industrial lobbying, which I, like a number of my fellow Members who have spoken on this matter, consider inappropriate. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Hedegaard, I cannot conceal the fact that I am one of those people who would much rather have adopted a target of 135 grams today.
However, I believe that this compromise reflects reality and shows that we are prepared to make a serious joint effort to limit and reduce CO2 emissions.
The European Union has recently succeeded in reducing overall CO2 emissions by 9%.
I think we are taking the first step in the right direction because, after all, we are talking about a reduction of 25%. (NL) Mr President, I wish to congratulate everyone, but I would have liked to have seen a more ambitious result.
That would have been very much of interest to small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular.
I must point out that the directive has already been compulsory for more than a month and a half, as demonstrated in cities such as Barcelona, where the socialist council has set the speed limit at 80 km per hour, and the difference has been felt compared with other cities such as Madrid or Valencia that have conservative councils, where the population is at high risk of suffering from allergies and respiratory diseases.
First, of course, as we have agreed, the Commission must assess the progress made and ascertain whether things are feasible.
That is what we have all agreed, but, of course, we have reason to believe that it is feasible because our impact assessment has already demonstrated this.
I would just like to say that reopening the debate as to the 2020 target could lead to uncertainty in planning, so, of course, we should now stress that a long-term target has been set.
At the same time, what we are trying to do here is to boost innovation in a very important industrial sector for Europe.
I have to say that I would have a little more respect for the remarks that he made if indeed the EFD Group had bothered to send a single representative to any of our trialogue meetings or to any of our shadow meetings to make the point that they are fond of quoting on behalf of small businesses. (Applause) In conclusion, I think this is a good result.
Throughout the whole process, we have resisted heavy pressure from manufacturers to weaken the regulation and, in particular, to reduce the ambition of the long-term CO2 reduction targets.
We have a compromise text which, although not as ambitious as we would have liked, will lead to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions from vans and contribute to the EU's emission reduction ambitions for 2020 and beyond.
Therefore, and given that small and medium-sized enterprises are most likely to use light commercial vehicles, and that these make up 99.8% of companies and 67.4% of jobs within the EU, we should not pursue goals that might jeopardise them.
I therefore agree with the target of 147 g of CO2 emissions per kilometre for new light commercial vehicles in the EU, if it is confirmed that this option is viable.
