Outcome of the Copenhagen Summit on climate change (debate) The next item is the debate on the Council and Commission statements on the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit on climate change.
Mr President, honourable Members, I stand in Parliament today in order to share with you my views on the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit and the challenges that arise from it, both for the European Union and for the rotating Presidency that Spain holds for the first half of 2010.
Emerging nations, for their part, will take concrete, verifiable action that will allow them to make a substantial reduction in their emissions growth: financing based on solidarity and aimed at supporting immediate and medium-term action in the fight against climate change; elements intended to steer new models of governance; and mechanisms that foster technological development and a reduction in emissions caused by deforestation.
We want to develop a financial framework that can sustain our solidarity commitments with third countries in the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund and, at the same time, foster improvements in accounting rules and our response in terms of both reductions in emissions caused by deforestation and technological cooperation.
We have been pioneers when integrating that principle into our proposals for a fairer and more sustainable development, not only economic, but also social and environmental, knowing that we are strengthening international security in the process.
The European Union, a staunch defender of the United Nations' role in resolving global issues, will also have work to do in other areas, both bilateral and multilateral, formal and informal, helping everyone to correctly identify opportunities, listening to our partners, and working on consolidating sectoral responses that are consistent with what is needed to fight climate change.
We must take full advantage of the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon and the entry into force of the new institutions, systematically incorporating the main messages on the fight against climate change into our relations with third countries.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me thank you on behalf of the Commission for the chance to discuss the outcome of the Copenhagen conference on climate change and the follow-up to the Copenhagen Accord.
My colleague, Stavros Dimas, has asked me to apologise on his behalf for not being able to be here himself because he is ill, which is particularly regrettable as this would probably have been his last plenary appearance.
I want to express our appreciation for the active and supportive role the European Parliament played before the conference and at the conference itself.
In particular, you have played a crucial role in order to enhance our outreach with key players in other countries and other regions.
It also invites the developed countries to list economy-wide emission targets by 31 January 2010 and calls for the developing countries to list mitigation actions by the same date.
Looking ahead, the next step will be to ensure that this Accord will at least become operational and will pave the way for a new climate treaty, which must be agreed on urgently in the course of this year.
As a very first step, it will be crucial to ensure that all key parties now endorse the Accord and notify their targets or actions by 31 January.
We must also strengthen alliances with countries and regions who share our vision of a successful outcome in the international climate negotiations.
The same goes for global economic governance and international security.
We must do better than that and we can do.
Naturally, we would have preferred something much more ambitious - see our resolution - but these are initial steps on which we must now build.
The summit may have been well prepared by Europe from a content and technical point of view, but politically speaking it was a disaster.
You are right in saying that Europe must speak with one voice, but that is easier said than done.
We really must now make use of the opportunities offered by the new Treaty of Lisbon, too.
Two new women will - we hope - soon be in the front line: Mrs Hedegaard and Mrs Ashton.
Mr President, the PPE Group sees it as a given that we must retain the 30% target expressed in our November resolution, and must combine this target with not only European but also global ambition.
We must revise our strategy, but we must also retain our ambition.
First of all, it must be firm because it is essential that we not only maintain our targets but increase them, going as far as a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
We must accelerate our industrial switchover to a green economy based on energy efficiency, clean and efficient processes, renewable energies, and new syntheses between information and environmental technologies, because the battle that started in Copenhagen is also that of industry and the industrial leaders of the 21st century.
We have to have a dynamic strategy without in any way delegitimising the UN process.
We must not allow the G2 we saw in operation become a reality but rather, put ourselves at the heart of this process; this will only be possible if we speak with one voice.
The bottom line is that we have to make a considerable effort so that we can maintain our resolve to be the world leaders on climate change.
For the first time, the United Nations document mentions a two degree warming limit, but the emission limits stated by various countries at Copenhagen are the equivalent of more than a three degree rise in global warming.
The last time it was three degrees warmer than now, the surface of the sea was 10 metres higher.
This time, the EU made it easy for them by blocking the Kyoto Protocol's second commitment period, which is extremely important for the developing countries.
It would be constructive to say that we are prepared for Kyoto's second period on certain conditions, and it would be constructive to undertake to support climate action on the part of the economically less developed countries without recycling development cooperation money under a new heading.
From this meagre outcome, we now need to move on towards a proper climate agreement.
In those circumstances, I believe it would be very foolish for those of us in the EU debating these matters to agree to even further emissions reductions.
In the absence of a worldwide agreement, I think we would be crazy to agree to further reductions because what we will do is run the risk of saddling our consumers with some of the highest energy bills in the developed world, making European heavy industry and large energy consumers particularly uncompetitive in a worldwide environment.
This is a crazy economic policy because it has no net benefit for the environment whatsoever.
In fact, in some respects, it has a net deleterious effect on the environment as those goods are simply re-imported back into the EU, after all.
Everybody must know what real reductions in emissions will be put in place and we must know that the necessary funding will be provided to developing countries to enable them to combat climate change and its consequences.
We all need clarity regarding who exactly will provide this funding, how much each developed country will provide, and how and when it will be provided.
And I also wish Commissioner Dimas every success.
They must and will be called to account, as should their collaborators in places such as this. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Copenhagen, and following the conference, much has been said about amendments to UN regulations.
Ladies and gentlemen, of course, Copenhagen was disappointing.
I will take two small examples, namely the undertaking by two developing countries, the Maldives and Costa Rica, to become climate-neutral in the next ten years.
However, we should not go round in sackcloth and ashes, either, but join with those in the world who want to make progress in protecting the climate.
The game must no longer be industrialised countries against developing countries, but those countries who have understood what it is all about against the rest of the world, where the latter group, it is to be hoped, will increasingly shrink in size. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Espinosa, last week I attended the Informal Environment Council meeting in Seville.
The first is that we must regain the leading role in global climate protection.
Secondly, we need to show credibility in the commitments that we have made and, thirdly, we urgently need to gain new partners before we get to Mexico.
With regard to regaining the leading role, I agree with everyone here who said that we should continue to state our promise to reduce carbon emissions by 30%.
I would like to see us specify this 30% target to the UN Secretariat in Bonn on 31 January, not the old 20% target.
The countries in Africa need to be able to see that the first measures are already in progress.
That is why the Council three years ago agreed that we should try and build up to 12 demonstration projects by 2015.
Now, we agreed a year ago a method of financing those projects: to use 300 million in allowances from the emissions trading scheme.
It took three months for that idea to come from Parliament, to get approval by the Council to unlock the door, but 12 months later, we still have not agreed how to choose the projects or use the money.
Commissioner Rehn has got the hot seat, then; I hope someone will pass him a note between now and the end of the debate so he can explain the lack of ambition in this document.
It will be debated at a meeting of the Council's Climate Change Committee on 2 February, and there is opposition from some Member States who oppose the Commission having the final say over the selection of projects and the use and distribution of the money.
Now this meeting will be the first opportunity since Copenhagen for the European Union to demonstrate whether it is going forward and taking practical steps or going to slip backwards.
So my question to the Minister is: Is the Presidency going to ensure that we get agreement at that meeting, or are you going to drop the ball? (NL) Mr President, let us be quite clear: Copenhagen was a failure.
Secondly, with regard to the United Nations, Europe must prove its leadership in the negotiations, too, which means no longer looking only to the United States and China, and instead looking mainly to the countries sharing our wish for action on the climate, such as the African Union, Mexico, Brazil and South Africa.
It is true that we agreed on two degrees, but this figure also means something.
The science says that two degrees means rich countries must reduce their CO2 emissions by 40%.
Therefore, the EU must now promise 30%.
On 31 January, it will have another chance to prove its leadership by coming forward with 30%, and I ask that the EU offer that figure.
The conference was too massive to be productive: a rock concert of 50 000 people is possible; a meeting, not.
I think we have to reassess the form we used, rather a G20 than an event of Woodstock proportions.
Secondly, we have to stop displaying moral arrogance by telling China and India what to do.
Commissioner, Minister, I hope you will look at these questions with an open mind. (DE) Mr President, the United Nations climate conference failed due to the hard-nosed political interests of the industrialised nations.
The EU played the game in the interests of its national undertakings and the profits of the large concerns.
The target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the EU Member States by a total of 30% by 2020 was not brought to the table early enough.
No legally binding commitments were signed.
Canada signed the Kyoto Treaty, and then increased its carbon-dioxide emissions by 26% without any consequences.
In order to stop irreversible climate change, we would need to change another climate.
We need to change the political and moral climate.
I still remember the debate we had here in this House before Copenhagen.
It was an international conference with its own rules, and we can achieve little with good will alone.
Thirdly, we also have to say that other countries and other regions of the world have a different approach to this problem.
That is how the world should have reacted in Copenhagen.
The EU could have done two things, and it should do two things before the conference in Mexico.
That is what we liberals are doing, and I hope that we can do so together in Europe.
Mr Rehn gave an extremely good introductory address.
The EU must speak with one voice in these negotiations.
However, it must be borne in mind that under the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament can now influence how these decisions are taken.
We need to invest in new technology and thirdly, we need to set a price floor for carbon dioxide.
If we now put the Copenhagen conference behind us, make a new start and put all our efforts into future measures, then the first thing we need to focus on is EU 2020.
Finally, I would like to say that clearly, we need a 30 per cent reduction in carbon emissions if we want to win not just the battle for the climate, but also the battle for the market. (FR) Mr President, Mrs Espinosa, I have been very surprised at the self-satisfaction you show with regard to EU action in the climate field.
It is true that Europe has done more and better work in the last 10 years than most of the other countries in the world, but there was clearly a failure of European leadership in Copenhagen.
It is true that the UN system is complicated, and that a G20, where the agreements are meaningless but there are opportunities for major publicity stunts, is much simpler.
However, 20% actually means doing less in the next 10 years than we have done in the past 10 years; it means reducing Europe's climate effort.
African countries, China and India want to keep their exemptions not to submit to the international system of monitoring emissions and, at the same time, receive billions of euros for clean technologies.
It will also be crucial to ensure that the USD 100 billion announced in Copenhagen is indeed in addition to the commitments made in the area of official development assistance.
The year 2010 represents our last chance if we want to ensure real success in Mexico City. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do not say that we did not warn you about this.
The resolution on COP 15 passed by this Parliament was all smoke and no fire.
Those are not the words of the Lega Nord but of Ivo de Boer, secretary of the UN climate change conference.
The Copenhagen Accord, agreed by US President Obama, Brazilian President Lula, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, Indian Prime Minister Singh and South African President Zuma, and imposed on all the remaining countries, has not even been formally adopted.
Following its rejection by eight countries, which prevented its adoption, the Accord was merely taken note of by the plenary of the 192 participating states.
We should promote sustainable, climate-protecting development, which allows us to use the resources of our planet in a responsible way, for us and for future generations.
The first was that it mobilised many more Heads of State or Government than the Kyoto Summit did.
Of course, it should continue its excellent work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, because the truth is that Europe has already been extremely virtuous.
With regard to the Kyoto target, which was an 8% reduction, European companies have achieved a reduction of just under 13%.
Indeed, we must consider implementing a carbon tax at the borders of the European Union, because we cannot abandon our businesses and thus our jobs to completely unfair competition, to the advantage of countries that show no respect for, or do not apply the same standards regarding, environmental protection and greenhouse gas reduction.
Therefore, little by little, I think that we are going to win this battle, because it is important to protect our European companies and jobs. (EL) Mr President, Mrs Espinosa, we would certainly have preferred today's debate to be held under different circumstances, where we would be called upon to evaluate a global, legally binding agreement and to decide, as the European Union, on what to do next.
The second reason we are expressing our disappointment and which particularly concerns us as the European Parliament is the poor figure cut by the European Union at the Copenhagen Summit.
This is not the role we would wish for or the role which befits us.
We call on the European Commission and the Council to show that it is up to the job and to safeguard a leading role for Europe in this new endeavour.
The EU needs to commit itself now to a 30% cut in emissions for three reasons.
If we hesitate now, those new green jobs will move to other continents.
Finally, we need that 30% cut because most of the extra commitment can easily be realised by increased energy efficiency.
Copenhagen did indeed mobilise more heads of state than Kyoto, but it also created more divisions and, as a result, it turned into a scenario of 'every man for himself', where every state can set out their goals and, moreover, do so on a voluntary basis.
We should note that we have a target reduction of 2 degree Celsius and goals for funding without any explanation whatsoever.
I voted against the resolution here in December.
A few days before it began, emissions trading fraud worth EUR 5 billion was exposed.
This must have been embarrassing just before the meeting was due to start, with the EU offering a way out and facing abuses of funds worth EUR 5 billion.
Telling ourselves 'Let us build upon the work we have done because we just need to make some changes' is not enough.
That is why we should not lay all our cards on the table before negotiations begin and trumpet the goals we are after.
The final point I wish to make is that we must include in our international meetings the issue of climate change as a matter of urgency and here, of course, I expect close cooperation by both of the commissioners in charge of these two areas. (ES) Today, at the start of 2010, we are not where we would have hoped to be in the fight against climate change.
Consequently, we do not have the sufficient legal base or means to cater for people's needs, especially in developing countries.
We must now demand a full public inquiry into the suspect data before we spend another penny on mitigation. (PT) Mr President, the United States and the European Union, the first and second largest emitters in the world per capita respectively, have a definite and unavoidable responsibility for the failure of Copenhagen, which no amount of passing the buck can diminish.
Among other problems, the summit failed to address the causes of climate change beyond its effects.
I do not want to depict a doom scenario for the future, nor do I want to look back in anger about the failure of Copenhagen - although I am angry.
Therefore, the resolution is to do far better in the future, the next opportunity being Mexico this year.
During the recent climate summit, world leaders did not manage to come to an understanding on a common strategy or instruments to help reach this objective.
Internally, Europe has a big task ahead: it needs to implement the energy and climate package, to invest in clean technologies, scientific research and energy efficiency, to invest in a new industrial policy based on innovation and the efficiency of natural resources, to promote policies on low-carbon cities and sustainable transport and mobility.
After Copenhagen, we cannot behave and we cannot do politics the same way as we did before Copenhagen.
The EU should reposition itself and set a new mandate by the time of the negotiating round in Mexico.
During the next period, European policy should be aimed at establishing a flexible position in order to achieve success.
Thank you for your attention. (NL) Mr President, Mrs Espinosa, this morning, the Nationale Voorleesontbijt (national reading-aloud breakfast) was held in Dutch schools.
Yet it strikes me as a better idea to look ahead to what Europe can, and, more importantly, must do in order to shoulder its responsibility and ensure that an international agreement is still reached.
Hence, in my opinion, the option of a 30% reduction must be kept expressly on the table.
Moreover, we must base our approach on science, knowledge and skills and not on emotions, however much we all care about this debate.
Finally, as many of my fellow Members have already said, we must speak with one voice.
As it stands, President Obama is a prisoner of his political system, for he needs 67 votes in the Senate.
The EU and this Parliament need to examine honestly how it approaches such matters in the future.
Europe must be much more assertive in standing up for itself and, in doing so, should continue to set ambitious targets involving targets and emissions reductions of 30%.
Of course, we must also remember that many countries have a right to develop.
I believe, however - as others have also said before - that there is still a great deal we can put right ourselves, even without an international agreement under the auspices of the United Nations.
Thus, I should like to ask the Council and the Commission to continue negotiations within these organisations and to step up the pressure by starting to prepare unilateral measures already if an agreement cannot be reached in a relatively short period of time.
With regard to intra-European transport, I heard Commissioner-designate Hedegaard advocate an ambitious climate and transport package during the hearings.
The Copenhagen conference appeared to the world to be a unique opportunity for world leaders to bear witness to, act on and correct the effects of this process of climate change.
The European Union was a key player at this forum, not only on account of the bold legislation we have passed to limit the impact of our activities on climate, but also because Europe represents a union of countries which can really make a difference.
Brazil has just passed a law aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by around 39% by 2020, in line with its undertakings.
I must also highlight the very positive point that was the consensus achieved on the urgent need for a mechanism for reducing emissions from deforestation.
Although far from a binding agreement, but clearly along the lines of a political agreement, the outcome of Copenhagen should lead us to question why it was such a disappointment.
The meeting of our environment ministers in Seville went nowhere, and our leaders were seen to be unsure and hesitant, and we are still divided over our targets.
I hope that Mrs Hedegaard, armed with her proposals and the undertakings she gave before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, will be able to restore the ambitions of the European Union. (NL) I concur with what Mrs de Lange said on behalf of our delegation from the Dutch Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) in this debate.
I should like to point out, chiefly in my role as coordinator of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for regional policy, that our objectives must be retained in full.
The climate issue is not just hype, and I also note that, fortunately, it is enshrined in the EU 2020 strategy of the new Commission.
Copenhagen was a failure.
The reality is that there was a gulf between the rhetoric of an EU wishing to be the world leader in the fight against climate change and its capacity to get others on board in the final negotiations.
At the same time, the United States and China are investing massively in green technologies to create the green jobs of tomorrow.
It has the means to successfully undertake this revolution, but let us be more pragmatic as we approach the next deadlines so that, a year from now in Mexico City, we can turn the agreement concluded in Copenhagen into something legally binding. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Espinosa, Commissioner, the Spanish Presidency has decided to prepare an evaluation of the Copenhagen climate conference, while we are saying here, according to many speakers, that it ended in a fiasco.
Current European Union strategy for negotiation on climate protection needs to be evaluated, because preparations are under way for the next summit, to be held in Mexico in December this year.
However, we have a clear view on the phenomenon of global warming and the need to take action.
The European Union must continue its efforts at foreign policy level, especially discussions with the United States and China.
It is a big problem for the EU.
Worse still, 28 European dwarfs sat at the table: 27 Member States and one powerless Commission.
This is a pity not only for Europe but also, in particular, for the results of this kind of conference.
This morning, President Barroso, Treaty of Lisbon in hand, said it is the Commission that speaks on behalf of the European Union in environmental matters.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said in 2007 that they would disappear by the year 2035.
I am referring here to both small projects, such as those involving technical assistance for local energy sources, and large projects with regional coverage, such as the selective management and recycling of waste or the restoration and extension of water and drainage networks and systems. (FR) Mr President, Minister, on 11 November, Václav Havel said to us, 'Europe is the homeland of our homelands'.
However, after Copenhagen, our European compatriots are being very hard.
There is a real lack of confidence and, therefore, faced with this crisis of confidence and to enable this confidence to be restored, I should like to put a two-part question to you.
It seems to me that this tax would enable this confidence to be restored, not only amongst our compatriots, but also amongst all the individuals throughout the world who have also lost confidence.
We should also remember new technologies, including technologies (...). (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, everybody is agreed in acknowledging that the Copenhagen Summit ended in a double failure.
Indeed, not only was the summit a damp squib, resulting in a non-binding agreement that was not signed by every country, but we also have to come to terms with our own defeat, because it was the key role played by the two most polluting countries on the planet, China and the United States, which was placed under the spotlight through the negotiations in Copenhagen.
This G2 led the negotiations without the Europeans or developing countries really having a say in matters.
Yet this sector is one of the most fundamental elements in the fight against climate change.
The real problem was not about limiting greenhouse gas emissions, but about proposing effective mechanisms which support their reduction.
In this way, we would achieve equal contributions from each Member State, without unnecessary complications.
I think we need impartial research to verify the effects of CO2.
We should facilitate the UN to start negotiating on the high-level segment with the Heads of State and then to continue drafting in detail with civil servants in the way it is done in the G8 or G20.
Secondly, my wish and hope for the Council and for the new Commission is that now with the new Lisbon Treaty, the core issue in our foreign policy would be dealt with by the trio of the President of the Commission, the High Representative and the Climate Change Commissioner and allow for negotiation on the basis of a single negotiated text. (PT) It has been said here already, and it is true, that Copenhagen was a disappointment, as not a single politically binding agreement ended up being approved.
Now, however, we need to look forwards, and prepare ourselves politically for the conference in Mexico - the European Union has already prepared itself in technical terms.
The European Union needs to reclaim the role of leader and make itself heard with one voice.
Now we have reached the final part of the debate and firstly, we will give the floor to Mrs Espinosa so that she can reply.
We must not lose sight of our aims because that would weaken our credibility and our position, which has been challenged in recent years.
I take note of your contributions and assure you that you will always have the Spanish Government, which will hold the rotating Presidency of the European Union until 30 June, working with you to achieve a more sustainable future for all of us.
In other words, the Copenhagen Accord contains references to the level of ambition needed to address climate change for the post-2012 climate agreement and it sets the basis for a financial package and invites serious commitments on emissions reductions.
On our own behalf, concerning our commitments, Coreper is meeting at this moment, and the Commission and the Member States want to make a single submission that is clear.
The details are now under discussion, and I am confident that we will be ready before the deadline of 31 January.
Mrs Hassi and many others have called for the EU's leadership.
We also need to ensure that new ambitious policies and measures are put forward that will lead us to the 20% - or even 30% - reduction goal that we have set for ourselves.
I agree with Mrs Dati and Mrs Grossetête, as well as Mrs Ek, that this implies that the EU 2020 will have to be a climate industry and a jobs strategy - and thus at the heart of the economic revival of the European Union.
I have checked and I can inform you that the use of the EUR 300 million allowances for carbon capture and storage should be decided on 2 February in the respective comitology committee.
I can reassure you that we want to support 12 demo plants.
To conclude, it is our duty for future generations to continue to lead by example and reach a legally binding agreement by the end of this year, ensuring a better and sustainable future for all.
In the light of the Copenhagen conference, we are all good politicians.
The fact that the outcome of the Copenhagen conference marked a disappointment, in that our expectations and those of our citizens were not met, should motivate us and make us determined to get more involved and show greater unity at the next summit in the autumn in Mexico.
Europe must learn to be a player and an active negotiator, and to speak with a single voice.
That is not enough, but what makes me optimistic is the realisation that investing in the climate is also good for our own pockets, for the economy and thus also for employment.
This was the first time that 115 Heads of State or Government met to discuss climate change.
The fact that the summit took place under the aegis of the UN highlights that even the developing and poorly industrialised countries realise that they need to play an active role in cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
The EU has all the data available to play an important role in bilateral discussions with states such as China, India or Brazil.
Furthermore, the European Union's inability to assume the role of catalyst for the global efforts to restrict the effects of climate change should be examined.
By announcing unilaterally a year before this conference its intention to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, the EU had the moral upper hand to provide a fillip to the negotiations in Copenhagen.
The ministerial meetings in Bonn and Mexico City in June and December must be used as effectively as possible to leave the way open for adopting a new treaty.
The fiasco of the climate summit has exposed Europe's weakness and the naivety of its political elite.
We should be glad about the warm period in the contemporary history of our planet and that, at the moment, we have around 370-380 ppm CO2 in the atmosphere.
What is more, energy consumption is increasingly taxed in these countries.
The Copenhagen conference on climate change was disappointing.
The failure of the conference does not justify idleness.
Accordingly, the European Union should work on polishing up its internal regulations on climate protection.
Europe cannot afford to only be a spectator at international negotiations on climate protection.
I am also going to say this to the future Commissioner responsible for climate change.
Those who followed the climate debate at all had known for a long time that an international agreement based on the EU's formula would not be achieved.
The European Union must remain involved in the international negotiations for adopting a post-Kyoto agreement.
It is clear that, in order to sign a new global post-Kyoto agreement, the EU's negotiating strategy needs to be evaluated and prepared thoroughly with a view to continuing the negotiations in 2010.
We must be aware that the EU's commitment to raise the level of emission reductions by 30% by 2020 is conditional on comparable or proportional commitments being assumed by third countries.
I believe that the future Commission, especially if there is going to be a commissioner responsible for climate change and action, must evaluate very closely all the reduction proposals - commitments made by the countries which are party to the United Nations Convention - and also prepare the negotiations in the same way so that a legally binding agreement is signed at COP 16 in Mexico in 2010.
in writing. - Most of us have rightly expressed disappointment at the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit and the failure to reach a legally binding agreement.
The EU must continue to play a leading role in the absence of a legally binding agreement.
The Commissioner-designate for climate action has expressed commitment to an international agreement on the protection of tropical forests, the inclusion of road transport and shipping in the ETS, and the linking of EU and US cap-and-trade systems, which would represent a crucial step in international cooperation for global emission reductions.
We should continue to develop and implement our own climate legislation as other countries work towards theirs.
Our work with international organisations and partner countries in the coming months will increase the chances of more meaningful progress at the next conference in Mexico.
The material included correspondence between scientists from various countries, whose research has had a key influence on the position of the European Union and the UN on climate change.
The leaked information shows that research results may have been manipulated and, as a result, unreliable information on the greenhouse effect and climate change may have been issued.
The countries of the EU, and so our societies, are bearing substantial costs related to the emission of greenhouse gases, while in Copenhagen, attempts were made to make developed countries, including the EU, accept an even greater financial burden related to global warming, in order to help, in this way, developing countries.
