I am speaking on behalf of a European and pro-Europe country, a country which, in the last 25 years, has experienced a major transformation in terms of progress and welfare, largely due to being part of the European Union.
We need to permanently create an energy common market that will strengthen the whole of the Union and the Union's economy.
We are convinced that the debate that is going to take place in the European Council and the Commission and, of course, the dialogue with the European Parliament, must bring about a 2020 Strategy that involves serious governance and is demanding in its objectives and focused on the areas that I have just mentioned.
We therefore propose launching new judicial protection systems through a European protection order and maximum extension of protection against the scourge of gender violence that a large proportion of European societies suffer from.
European citizens also need to know, based on our deliberations, our proposals and our initiatives, that social cohesion and social inclusion in response to poverty in Europe are inalienable aspects of the Union, and that, along with democracy, the most important elements of Europe's identity are welfare and social cohesion.
Mr President - I am finishing now - ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to express Spain's thanks to all the countries of the European Union, especially those that promoted our integration and contributed to our development.
The institutional engines of European integration will be operating at full power once Parliament's vote of confidence in the new Commission gives these two institutions a strong, solid basis in order to move forward with an ambitious political agenda.
The devastating earthquake has been at the forefront of our minds since 12 January, and efforts began straight away to provide all the assistance we can.
But we have to look at the situation of our economy.
Europe 2020 must offer both a mid-term vision and short-term action.
The more we can shape our immediate measures to put us on the road to our longer-term objectives, the more we will have a head start to future growth and employment, our number one priority.
The renewed Lisbon Strategy was able to build an understanding of how structural reform feeds directly into growth and jobs.
We must now use the Europe 2020 strategy to create new sources of growth, to unleash the potential of the internal market to drive our economy forward.
It also means an economy shaped for the future - a sustainable and resource-efficient economy - that is also productive and innovative.
So, Europe 2020 must bring with it stronger coordination mechanisms, a common vision and an effective European leadership.
I want to thank Prime Minister Zapatero for his clear commitment to this European approach when discussing economic policies, his commitment to Community matters and his commitment to the role of the European Commission in this vision and in implementation of this vision.
Let us be clear: in the past, some national politicians have resisted stronger mechanisms of governance within the Lisbon Strategy.
I hope that, following the lessons of interdependence not only at global but also at European level - all the lessons that were given to us by the crisis - all EU governments will now recognise the need for full ownership of Europe 2020 and for a truly coordinated and coherent action in economic policy, as foreseen in Articles 120 and 121 of the Lisbon Treaty.
Finally, let me add that I see Europe 2020 also as the way to bring confidence and hope for our citizens.
We will have to address the real problem of the economy, that the potential growth of Europe may be reduced if we do not act now in a coherent and effective manner.
Europe 2020 is, for me, above all, also a response to this.
This is why I also welcome the initiative to hold an informal European Council on 11 February to have a first discussion at Head of State or Government level.
We should also intensify our efforts namely through our internal policies of promoting the upgrading and modernisation of the industrial base of our economy, the innovation and the development of new clean technologies, energy efficiency and the energy security agenda, also by putting this matter at the top of the transformational agenda for Europe.
This is how to make the best case for the European Union on the global stage: a European Union ready for action, with a clear vision for the future and a determination to get there.
I am very much looking forward to working with this Parliament to help make the Spanish Presidency of the Council a success and to ensure that the next six months put us on the road to realising our common ambitions for Europe, a European Union that is closer to our citizens and that is focused on clear results for our Europe. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Barroso.
Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, you know what economic difficulties are.
I therefore welcome your will to restore growth and to create employment as the be-all and end-all of your Presidency.
I am specifically thinking of small and medium-sized enterprises where employment in our countries and in our regions is concerned.
I therefore offer my best wishes to the President-in-Office of the Council for the coming six months and hope that, together, we can succeed in moving Europe forward during this time.
I think it is courageous for a Head of Government to say, for example, that marital violence is not a national problem but a problem that affects the whole of society everywhere and that we in Europe, in our highly developed, civilised society, must not regard violence against women as a minor offence, but as a violation of human rights, and that is what it is. (Applause) The political re-energising that we need in Europe is tied in very strongly with our expectations of your Presidency, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero.
The part of your programme that involves finally implementing the control of the financial markets is therefore an important element that we Socialists fully support. (Applause) The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament will give its support to your Presidency, Mr Zapatero.
I also hope that the Commission will act with the same intensity and the same political direction as your Presidency.
We will do whatever we can to put the Commission on the right path in the next six months and beyond, because we hope that, as a result of the 18-month long triple-shared presidencies, there will not be a completely different programme every six months, but that we will instead have continuity.
We agreed in 2000, we will agree in 2010, and we will agree again in 2020 and 2030.
No, the question concerns a different issue: in short, are the Council and the Member States ready to change the method that failed in the Lisbon Strategy?
The strategy was bad, because the result is bad.
We need the same thing at European level if we are to avoid a repeat of what happened in Copenhagen. (Applause) Moreover, we must, I believe, be realistic.
I remember that, in 2006, a European commissioner by the name of Michel Barnier proposed the creation of a European social protection force, which was to have been known as EuropeAid.
Mr President, take up Michel Barnier's proposal.
And on this matter, I ask that the European Union decides now, not to make 20%, but rather 30% in energy savings by 2020.
There is a major project that could be developed in Europe.
If you go down that path, we will be in agreement, and Europe is the solution.
Spanish Members from all parties have made important contributions to the work of this House, holding distinguished office in both Parliament and in our groups.
Their impact has been substantial and, in this context, I would like to pay particular tribute to our friend, Jaime Mayor Oreja, one of Parliament's most influential personalities.
We in the ECR Group have high hopes of the Europe 2020 initiative as a framework for a sustainable, competitive European economy, and we have drafted our own additional proposals which we hope will help to take this debate forward.
The Spanish Presidency takes office with a full agenda.
If it does that, then it will have our support.
In our view, the fundamental requirement of this Presidency would have been to rectify the current economic policy, through public intervention in the economy and, of course, by regulating the market through progressive fiscal policies.
The recession in Spain and in Europe, and the unemployment figures, the like of which have not been seen since the 1930s, are the consequence of not intervening in the market and not intervening in strategic production sectors, including the financial sector.
Therefore, unfortunately this part of your programme, which for us is substantial, does not change or alter anything and does not introduce anything new.
I have big concerns for the future of the Spanish tourism business now that the press is writing about the bad fortune of these people. (ES) Mr Zapatero, I will now address you in your mother tongue, which is also my own.
I think that by chance, the rotating Presidency of the European Union has given my country the best possible opportunity to demonstrate once again that Spain wants to play a decisive role in Europe.
I therefore know, Mr President, that you want to make the most of this opportunity to put the Treaty of Lisbon into practice.
If rights are our soul, the soul of Europe, I will venture to remind you that you place a great emphasis, as you rightly said in your speech, on the backbone of Europe being a common energy policy.
In order to achieve this, as the Commission knows, we have an austerity plan, a strict fiscal consolidation plan.
In fact, in my speech, I strongly advocated a common energy market and a European digital market.
Our proposal, and our plan, therefore, is for the 2020 Strategy to favour a Europe without trade barriers, to favour competition, innovation and an entrepreneurial environment in Europe.
Finally, I want to say to Mr Daul that I note the position of his group, which is the majority group in this House, regarding the role of the President of the Council - the permanent President - and of Parliament.
When we talk about 2020 and government, we are talking about our collective capacities, the sum of the synergies represented by 500 million citizens on a continent that has succeeded in generating and launching the industrial revolution, the best use of energy and the greatest scientific advances.
If all these forces are joined, we will have the capacity to play a leading role, to maintain our economic model, our prosperity model and our welfare model.
Mr Sosa Wagner, I am happy to be here with you in this forum, in this great institution, at this time and in this debate.
I also represent my country with the utmost humility, because we are here to share, and I think that the best way of sharing is to come with humility, to come prepared to unite, to join together and to defend the great ideal of the European Union together. (Applause) Mr President, I believe that there has been general consensus on the priorities of the Spanish Presidency of the Council, with, of course, some nuances depending on the stance of the various political groups, but there is one issue which has figured in several speeches and to which I wish to refer, namely the question of European coordination, or consistency, whether it be in our response to natural disasters outside Europe, or in our response within the framework of external relations, for example post-Copenhagen, or in relation to economic policy.
This is why I created a climate agenda portfolio and thus hope that the commissioner, in this case, a female commissioner, will, in future, have all the support required to represent the Union in the post-Copenhagen negotiations.
The third question concerns economic policy.
Article 120: 'The Member States regard their economic policies as a matter of common interest and coordinate them in the Council'.
Beyond that, and this is something new in the Treaty of Lisbon, the Commission may now make concrete recommendations, especially, and I quote: 'Where it is established that the policies of a Member State are not consistent with the broad guidelines or that they risk jeopardising the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, the Commission may address a warning to the Member State concerned'.
This is my point - and this is why I must stress it here today: this is the first time that we have had a new rotating Presidency of the Council at the European Parliament.
The Spanish Presidency has a great responsibility.
Furthermore, as Mr Zapatero has said - and he has my full confidence because of his commitment to Europe - I believe that we have a responsibility to apply the treaty in both letter and spirit.
A stronger Europe, not for the sake of the institutions, but so that the institutions are better able to serve the real interests of our citizens. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Barroso.
I want to say this to you because, in view of the obvious impetus which will be provided by the Treaty of Lisbon, we have our first opportunity to reduce this rift between the European people and the European institutions.
I therefore would like to say that I am very pleased to say here today that the Spanish Partido Popular has supported the objectives of the Spanish Government in the European Presidency at such an important time for the European Union.
Nothing would please me more, I promise you, than to be able to congratulate you in six months time for having put in place measures which enable us to emerge from the crisis - something which effectively implies greater and better economic government - and for having reorganised the European Union from a social, ecological and democratic point of view.
However, I also see timidity in your proposals and too many concessions to those who shamelessly mortgage our social and environmental present and future.
Nevertheless, it is certain that there are many summits planned during your Presidency, be they with Latin America or the Mediterranean, but I also wish to show my concern on two aspects.
I hope and I trust - and you will have the support of this Chamber in continuing to do so - that you continue to set an example to many other countries which are very behind in this respect. (PL) Mr President, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, your country has taken over the Presidency at an exceptionally difficult time - the last, I hope, phase of the worst economic crisis to hit our continent for 80 years.
I hope that in six months' time, we will be able to say that Ukraine is closer to membership of the European Union. (EL) Mr President, the Spanish Presidency, in describing the priorities for consumers, devotes a total of two lines to the governance programme.
We call on the Spanish Presidency to revise its programme so as to safeguard permanent jobs for its citizens. (LT) I also hope that the Spanish Presidency will be a success and that, in addition to the priorities laid out, Spain will also devote attention to a problem that is particularly relevant these days, that of human rights and freedoms.
The conclusions of this investigation should crown a document obliging Member States to ensure the rights and freedoms of every citizen without condition. (NL) The Spanish Presidency's statements on immigration policy, and border controls in particular, blow hot and cold very curiously.
What we really need is to close our borders, put a real stop to immigration and, of course, provide economic support to countries that need it.
I have heard many speeches - you are the 32nd Head of Government that I have witnessed - but I have rarely heard anything so non-committal in content.
Mr Schulz must have been in a different room if he is recommending that we adopt your Spanish Government model here.
I am not surprised that you did not hear the social pact mentioned, because it is an important part of this strategy.
This social pact is needed now in particular, because we know - and this is the point on which you are right, although only partly - that we must consolidate the budgets.
Mr Zapatero, with regard to the social pact in particular, you have our full support. (ES) Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, last September, the Commissioner, Joaquín Almunia, appeared in Parliament before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The crisis is global, but the solutions are local.
Mr Zapatero, you have broken the fine tradition of the PSOE in Europe.
For this reason, I would like to ask the Prime Minister of the Spanish Government what, specifically, are the most important measures to achieve the objective of reducing unemployment, not just in Spain, but also in Europe.
The Spanish Government's programme is extremely ambitious.
I believe that we must focus, instead, on a fundamental objective in the field of immigration, that of integrating the immigrants that we already have in our country and stopping ... (The President cut off the speaker) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, welcome, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero.
However, please allow me to return to two extremely tiresome questions on the contribution that you can make to the interpretation of the Treaty of Lisbon's implementation.
My second question concerns the role of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs: after Lisbon, who among yourself, President Van Rompuy and President Barroso, is responsible for explaining to Baroness Ashton that perhaps after 12 days, it is time to get on an aeroplane and fly to Haiti?
The European Social Pact and European economic governance might be part of this 'more', but all these parts require more European financial resources and harmonisation of Member State tax policies.
The Spanish Presidency should cope with the two main contradictions of the European Union: the contradiction between pan-European needs and European national egoists, and the contradiction between the level of development in the western territories of the Union and that in the eastern territories, with their consequences in terms of political sensitivity.
There is a political sensitivity which is different in the two parts.
I therefore think that we not only need to read the Treaty, which is very right and gives us possibilities for more coherence, but also to provide... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Spain is now taking on the Presidency of the European Union for the fourth time.
In your programme, you say that you want the EU to take root in the will of those who render it legitimate, namely European citizens.
You have a great responsibility in this regard, as you are the first Presidency following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Iceland and Icesave have been taking great risks for many years.
That is the only way of building the confidence required for accession. (PT) Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, you know as well as I do that growth of production in Europe will be slow and lacklustre over the coming years.
We have to make sure that the new EU 2020 programme does not repeat the mistakes of the Lisbon Strategy.
I draw your attention to two European-level issues included in the targets of the future Hungarian Presidency.
We have to take advantage of the strength of these communities. (SV) Thank you for a strong social agenda - you have our full support on that.
The first concerns the Copenhagen Summit.
I believe that thanks to the Spanish Presidency, this programme will be successfully fulfilled and the entire project launched.
This is a huge task for the Spanish Presidency, since it is to be followed by other highly significant projects in the sphere of innovation, telecommunications and other related matters. (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President Barroso, Commissioner Almunia, I, too, wish to focus on the EU 2020 strategy, as the need for Europe to work for its citizens and their jobs is greater than ever in these times of crisis.
You have announced that EU 2020 is an important priority area, but at the inauguration of your Presidency in Madrid, you made some controversial political statements and received a great deal of criticism, even though it is actually an important responsibility to get Member States singing from the same song sheet, and one that requires diplomacy.
Let us be decisive, but let us also respect subsidiarity. (SK) The programme you have presented is very ambitious - it may allow the European Union to make quite a lot of progress and, since I have had the opportunity to meet several members of your government, I know that they are professionally very capable and well-prepared to implement this programme - my congratulations.
I am particularly looking forward to cooperating with the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Interior, because this is the area I focus on as the Vice-Chair of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
The European Economic Recovery Plan has included the European Union's involvement in funding the Nabucco gas pipeline.
I would also take this opportunity to ask you not to forget the Southern Caucasus region, which is an important alternative energy resource for the European Union, or the Republic of Moldova, which is in great need of EU assistance during this period of transition to democracy. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zapatero, thank you for the great commitment you are making during this parliamentary term regarding the items you have announced, even though this is no longer the time to list all the useful items, but to make practical efforts to revive Europe.
We would also like to know whether the time has finally come when, as Kissinger would say 30 years ago, the major world leaders know which telephone number to call when they need to speak to someone in Europe, and do not just contact the Member States.
At stake is Europe's dignity as it emerges from the Treaty of Lisbon, but also the European social model, that fundamental democracy which we Members of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament strongly demand and on which we want the future well-being of our citizens to be based. (PT) Mr President, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, Mr Barroso, I would like to make it clear that there are certain ambiguities in the speech that we have heard here, particularly with regard to economic matters.
I also believe that it is important that the Council and the Spanish Presidency clearly demonstrate a willingness to collaborate with the Commission and Parliament, so as to clarify how relations between the Commission and Parliament will play out in the context of the Treaty of Lisbon, as the Spanish Presidency now has a unique opportunity to set precedents.
Finally, somebody in the Council understands that Europe cannot be formed without workers, and much less so against workers.
