Management of H1N1 influenza (short presentation) The next item is the report by Mrs Rivasi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza in the EU in 2009-2010.
The first cases were reported almost two years ago - on 25 March 2009 - and the WHO declared a phase 6 alert level on 11 June 2009.
This maximum alert level issued by the WHO triggered a series of measures in Europe, including the activation of immunisation campaigns in several Member States which not only were very costly but were also overestimated in relation to the known severity of the virus, which, as the WHO stated at that time in May 2009, was moderate.
As regards severity, up to the end of April 2010, this flu had caused around 2 900 deaths in Europe, in other words, a much lower mortality rate than that related to seasonal flu, which causes an estimated 40 000 - 220 000 deaths per year depending on the year.
The evaluation of the management of H1N1 influenza shows that there was a disproportionate response in the European Union and the Member States.
I and my colleagues, whom I would like to thank for their amendments, have therefore tried to produce a constructive report which aims to restore the confidence of European citizens in their health institutions.
This is the responsibility of our Member States, which have most of the jurisdiction in this area, and they therefore have a serious responsibility towards our fellow citizens. (HU) Mr President, during the 2009 influenza pandemic, EU Member States were the most prepared.
We need to look more closely at the implementation itself. (CS) Mr President, today, in hindsight, we can see that the expenditure of thousands of billions of euro on the battle against the H1N1 virus was excessive given the actual severity of the influenza outbreak.
It is therefore natural that people should ask questions about whether we were being alarmist then or are not taking it seriously enough now.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Rivasi, for this report, which really makes a valuable contribution to our efforts to learn from the 2009 pandemic.
The EU already had in place independent capacity and expertise on pandemic influenza.
In the field of research alone, the European Commission has funded over 50 projects on influenza since 2000, an investment of EUR 150 million.
The vote will take place at midday on Tuesday, 8 March.
In Europe, according to estimates by the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, H1N1 influenza caused about 2 900 deaths in 2009.
The number of deaths stood at 2 900, while the estimated number of cases attributable to seasonal influenza amounts to 40 000 per year.
