Participation of Switzerland in the 'Youth in Action' programme and in the action programme in the field of lifelong learning (debate) The next item is the recommendation by Mrs Pack, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation establishing the terms and conditions for the participation of the Swiss Confederation in the 'Youth in Action' programme and in the action programme in the field of lifelong learning (2007-2013) (12818/2010 - C7-0277/2010 - 2010/0231(NLE)).
Mr President, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to lead this debate today because I remember that we both always cooperated with Switzerland in the European Council and are therefore both aware of how important it is for Switzerland to participate in these programmes.
It is also interested in participating in the cultural heritage labelling scheme, something it can only do if it participates in this programme.
However, Switzerland has, for a long time, shown interest in our education and youth programmes.
Switzerland has also followed closely, albeit from the outside, the debate on education policies in the European Union.
Switzerland will be the first country to take part in our programmes that is neither an EU Member State nor a member of the European Economic Area, nor a current or potential EU candidate.
The agreement will allow Swiss education and youth organisations, as well as individual students, teachers and young people, to participate in the EU's Youth in Action and Lifelong Learning programmes on completely equal terms with EU citizens.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (PL) Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, I endorse the rapporteur's draft report on agreeing to the participation of the Confederation of Switzerland in the 'Youth in Action' programme and in the action programme in the field of lifelong learning.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, right from the outset, I wish to thank our committee's excellent Chair, Doris Pack, who also drafted this report.
In this connection, it is very important that Switzerland is not in any way excluded from this system of cooperation, even though it is not a member of the EU or the EEA.
Mr President, even though Switzerland has not yet decided to become a Member State of the European Union, it has long shown a serious interest in broad cooperation with the EU in the area of education and professional training for young people.
After the establishment of the Youth in Action and Lifelong Learning programmes in 2006, a legal foundation was put in place for cooperation between Switzerland and the EU in this area.
The European Commission, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Council following talks with Swiss counterparts, has drawn up an agreement making it possible for us to develop effective cooperation with our Swiss friends in the area of education and professional training of young people, as well as in the area of lifelong learning.
In my opinion, Commissioner, this agreement between the EU and Switzerland therefore represents a step in the right direction. (LT) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, and I agree entirely with her recommendations on the 'Youth in Action' and Lifelong Learning programmes and the participation of Switzerland in these.
The programme and its voluntary measures should be enhanced and strong links should be forged with Switzerland in this regard.
However, I will bow to the superior wisdom and experience of Doris Pack in saying that this may be the way forward.
As an Italian-Swiss citizen, I am happy that Switzerland is the first country from outside the European Union to participate in EU education programmes for young people, both in higher education and continuing skills training.
I believe that it will be very interesting for the young people of the European Union and Switzerland to get to know each other better, and I am sure that this will lay foundations that will also have an influence on the future of the European Union. (DE) Mr President, understandably enough, Switzerland, which provides some of the financial backing for the 'Youth in Action' and Lifelong Learning programmes, now wishes to participate in these programmes.
I am thinking here mainly about the Eastern Partnership and also the Balkans, or, in other words, countries that are not yet formally European Union Member States. (DE) Mr President, like everyone else here, I have the feeling that Switzerland may come increasingly closer to Europe in this way, eventually, and hopefully soon, becoming a full member of the European Union, something that is certainly greatly to be welcomed.
We see it as a means of paving the way for greater support for the European project in Switzerland, which we hope will change its mind in future and decide to join us in the European Union.
However, I want to stress that we also need to consider including the other countries bordering the EU in our programmes because education and culture should not stop at our borders.
The participation of Switzerland, a country that chose not to be a part of the European Union, in the 'Youth in Action' programme and in the action programme in the field of lifelong learning cannot be ruled out a priori, but should be carefully evaluated.
