Venezuela, in particular the case of Maria Lourdes Afiuni The next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on Venezuela, in particular the case of Maria Lourdes Afiuni.
author. - (ES) Madam President, Judge Afiuni granted parole to Eligio Cedeño, in accordance with Venezuelan law and in line with the opinion of the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detentions.
Article 26 of the Venezuelan Constitution is very clear, stating that the judiciary is independent and the President is the guarantor of this independence.
Maria Lourdes Afiuni has spent her last seven months in a place where her physical integrity and even her life are endangered.
She is in a prison with more than 20 female inmates whom she convicted over the years for very severe crimes.
Madam President, in the case of Maria Lourdes Afiuni in Venezuela, is the issue one of combating corruption, which is the official version, or of persecuting a political opponent, which is the New York Times version reported by its correspondent, Simon Romero?
The question certainly deserves to be asked, as both combinations are common in hardline regimes.
author. - (ES) Madam President, I am of the same opinion as Mrs De Keyser.
Chávez has already labelled her a bandit, accused her of taking a bribe, and said she should be jailed for 30 years.
He has also said that Simón Bolívar would have had her shot, an extremely inflammatory statement in Chávez's increasingly dictatorial regime and, in my view, a reckless incitement to violence.
If we need to have a debate on Venezuela in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, let us have it, but we should not use this session to do things that have nothing to do with the fundamental, specific and timely reporting of human rights violations.
The real agenda here is not to defend human rights but, in fact, to advance the overthrow of the government of Hugo Chávez in Venezuela and to give succour to the right-wing pro-big-business opposition in Venezuela, which still controls large swathes of the privately-owned media and industry and landed estates and includes those who attempted an open coup less than 10 years ago.
I demand that this Judge Afiuni and all prisoners in Venezuela are treated with dignity and are afforded a scrupulously fair trial.
Madam President, in this Chamber, we often ask ourselves a question which is also put to us in our constituencies: how effective is your work in the area of protecting human rights?
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I am happy that the European Parliament has put the case of Judge Afiuni on its agenda and is raising its voice against human rights violations in Venezuela.
One recent situation with implications in the entire region is the attempt by Venezuela in June 2010 to amend a draft resolution on civil society participation in the Organisation of American States.
Finally, I would like to add my voice in calling for the release of the judge. (RO) I would like to reiterate that the protection of human rights has always been and continues to be a priority for us.
May our support go out from here to Judge Afiuni, and to everyone living in Venezuela, together with our hope that political freedoms will once more be a reality.
The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a protective measure in favour of Judge María Lourdes Afiuni, stressing the responsibility to protect her life and physical integrity and also to transfer her to a safe place.
The Venezuelan Government must release Judge Afiuni quickly and stop its attacks on the independence of the judiciary.
