Interinstitutional agreement on a common Transparency Register - Amendment of the Rules following the establishment of a common Transparency Register The next item is the joint debate on the report by Carlo Casini, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission on a common Transparency Register, and the report by Carlo Casini, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure following the establishment by the European Parliament and the Commission of a joint transparency register.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs (AFCO) has prepared this report in a few months and has also finalised a report on the amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
Yet if the criminal law of the Member States is not sufficient, we will need to reread Articles 82 to 86 of the Treaty of Lisbon, reflect on whether we can consider the corruption of MEPs to be cross-border crime or an act otherwise detrimental to the Union's financial interests and determine whether or not to create a European Public Prosecutor, which would, moreover, be a significant step along the path to unity.
The Register is public.
There are therefore two reports, but in any case this is just a first step towards more complete transparency.
Some hypotheses are already being researched and could be turned into rules after further reflection hence point 9 of the document adopting the agreement indicates the possibility for the reports to carry the details of the stakeholders who met with MEPs during the preparation of the report in question.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, transparency is a particularly important principle of democratic institutions.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, transparency is a cornerstone of democracy, ensuring that people know who exerts influence and how decisions are made.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur and all those involved in this process because tomorrow, after the vote, a long period of hard work will finally come to a conclusion.
I would like to address two points.
I commend especially paragraph 9 of the report, which invites the Bureau to set up a system of legislative footprints whereby rapporteurs can record those that have lobbied in the course of progressing a draft law.
However, I think that it ought to be limited to rapporteurs who are responsible for drafting a law on behalf of Parliament.
Madam President, it is good that you are in the chair today; I thank you for your work in the negotiations between Parliament and the Commission.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, politics is built on trust.
The Members of this House have been elected in a free and secret ballot by the citizens of our Member States, who rightly expect us to respect their interests, in other words the common good, in all of our speeches and decisions, rather than pursuing our own interests or the interests of third parties, whether businesses or other interest groups.
However, we are also aware that in Brussels, for example, we are surrounded by more than 10 000 professional lobbyists, who do exactly what their job description suggests, namely attempting to exert influence on Members of Parliament and the Commission.
You cannot stop this because it is perfectly normal - we live in a free and open society - however we need to make our voice heard within this structure and maintain our independence.
Nonetheless, this is a good day for Europe because it brings us more transparency.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DA) Madam President, this report is a step in the direction of greater openness and a mandatory lobbyist register for anyone who attempts to influence the EU.
While taxpayers' money sloshes around Brussels in the quantities that it does, there will always be unscrupulous lobbyists, just as where there is carrion, there are always vultures. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr President, Mr Agnew, while I am all in favour of a well-managed exchange during debates, I am less pleased when matters are presented in a false way.
I do not like it, and I do not want my country to have any part in it. (DE) Mr President, we are all aware that not just the European Parliament, but also the European Union as a whole is suffering from a huge credibility problem.
Firstly, I am pleased that we have chosen a new name for the lobby register of the European Parliament, which dates back to 1996 and which is now to be known as the transparency register.
The fact is that even now the lobby register only covers 2 800 of the 20 000 lobbyists in Brussels.
I would invite you to take a look at my website, where I have set up a lobby ticker that registers every lobbyist contact, irrespective of whether or not I am currently working on a legislative initiative. (GA) Mr President, this report is important as it goes to the heart of the work we are doing in Parliament: preparing and implementing rules and laws.
Our work must therefore be proactive in nature.
I have been in charge of one report and in the explanatory statement I listed all the agents with whom I worked, because it is a way of working and an attitude that we should clearly separate from all the irresponsible acts we have seen in the past. (FR) Mr President, I too would like to express my satisfaction at this text, which I will be pleased to vote for tomorrow.
To restate the point, registration must be mandatory, not just for access to Parliament, after all lobbyists certainly do not just seek out their contacts in the Parliament building itself, but also, more often than not in restaurants, at cocktail receptions or in the gym.
They must ensure transparency in relation to their assets, their claims on the public purse and the reimbursement of campaign costs, in other words in relation to the actual moneys they have received from public bodies in their own countries during their election campaigns.
Transparency in our work is therefore extremely important in view of the fact that our work involves legislation for 500 million people and often very large sums of money.
I was very glad - I am coming back to this because several speakers referred to the importance it - that all three institutions are progressing in this work.
But it would certainly serve as a very good instrument and good indicator that those who register are prepared to respect the rules and be transparent, that they have nothing to hide and - this should be the key indicator for all of us - that they should be real partners to work with us and exchange information with us and that they have trust in our future communication.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to welcome, as a representative of a Member State which has had an act providing for lobbying since 2006, today's debate and the fact that Parliament and the Commission are able to agree in the issue of the transparency register.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 11 May 2011.
However, it should be just one of a series of essential steps towards greater transparency in the legislative process, which should apply to all three European institutions.
