Prevention of natural and man-made disasters (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters by João Ferreira, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - B7-0201/2011).
Meanwhile, in September of last year, Parliament adopted a report on this very matter.
We are also developing a catalogue of prevention measures that would be considered by Member States for EU funding.
On 21 December last year, we issued a guidance paper on national risk assessment and mapping to encourage Member States in fostering a comprehensive risk-management culture.
The increased frequency and intensity of disasters in Europe should also provide further incentives for Member States to invest in preparedness and build up their capacity.
Under the supervision of the Commission, the Member States must also draw up risk maps for all areas.
Some of the suggestions and proposals presented in the Ferreira report were contained in my report, which was adopted by Parliament in 2006, and the Commission has not yet given a response to many of these proposals.
I should therefore like to ask the Commissioner whether he can report on the work done so far in connection with the creation of the European Drought Observatory, and also about the directive on forest fires.
I would like to know if the Commission has made any headway in this matter and implemented measures.
I would like to know what progress has been made with Russia on this. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the past 15 years, the number of natural and man-made disasters has increased significantly and we see phenomena that are more severe and more frequent in almost all European Union countries with serious consequences for the economy, infrastructure and ecosystems.
The European Union Solidarity Fund and national funds are no longer able to cope with frequent disasters.
I would ask the Commissioner who is present when will it be possible to provide data and a map of areas at risk, as announced in his communication of 23 February 2009?
The statistics indicate that, in the last 20 years, 953 disasters have occurred in Europe, causing almost 90 000 deaths and economic losses amounting to USD 269 billion.
However, I would like to take this opportunity - since the European Solidarity Fund falls within my remit - to tell you that this Fund is an instrument that was created seven or eight years ago and that is not financed from the budget.
I would like to thank you once again for your commitment and persistence on this matter and I would like to ask you also to continue - and I will finish by saying this - to pay such a high level of attention to implementation and to utilising the financial resources that are, in principle, available in the Member States.
