Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has concerns about the European banking sector stress test which is to take place in June, because last year's stress test lacked credibility and the consequences of that were painfully obvious when the Irish banks that passed the test landed in serious trouble shortly thereafter.
The question is whether our financial sector is equipped to cope with severe weather.
The PPE Group encourages you to come up with ambitious proposals and you will be able to count on our support here in Parliament.
author. - Mr President, I should like to say this to the Commissioner: the bank crisis resolution is being elaborated at an international level and there are also important competition issues to address, but this does not mean that everything has to wait, in particular when we have a combined sovereign debt and banking crisis.
But there is no overall plan to address under-capitalisation.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is time to carry out European stress tests that are transparent, flexible, reliable and effective: their quality and credibility are a necessary contribution to financial stability and the reestablishment of market confidence.
The European Union has prior experience with stress tests, carried out by the Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS).
On 1 October 2009, the aggregated results were sent to the Ecofin Council, which, on 2 December that year, asked the CEBS to provide it with information on the strength of the banking system, for which new stress tests would be carried out.
They affected 91 banks in the European Union, but were criticised because they lacked a European focus, because each country decided which banks should be subjected to the tests, because the scenario was different for each country, and because the information provided was often incorrect; we all remember the case of Ireland and the lack of information on some aspects of the exposure to sovereign debt of some countries' banks.
On 18 March, the European Banking Authority published an executive summary containing the methodology, and we would like to know, when the European Council thought that the information should be published, what measures... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I thank Mrs Wortmann-Kool, Mrs Bowles and, just now, Mr Sánchez Presedo for their three questions concerning an extremely important subject, namely the credibility of the stress tests for banks.
We have not yet learned all the lessons from this, and we are all engaged in an important legislative task.
Firstly, as you wanted, the stress tests for 2011 have undergone genuine improvements, particularly in six areas that I would like to inform you about briefly. 1.
The banks will also be tested on the basis of an upper capital threshold, core tier one. 5.
Fourthly, Mrs Bowles and other speakers asked us about the differences in coverage of the banking sector within the Union.
In each Member State, the sample was determined in such a way as to cover at least 50% of the total assets of the national banking sector.
My aim is to give supervisory bodies and the future resolution committee for these cross-border institutions a toolbox in order to take preventative measures and to prevent risks that are diagnosed fairly early on from turning into crises, and to prevent the crises themselves from turning into catastrophes.
The solutions that you have just given us, in a particularly detailed fashion, are of a kind that can provide an answer to our questions.
Mr President, Commissioner, if there is one thing we have learned in Europe from the recent financial crisis, it is that full capital adequacy of our credit institutions and effective supervision of the level of risk they undertake are key points in overall economic - not just financial - governance.
This year, we are in a different situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, a lot of things have been said about methodology.
I also wanted to draw your attention to what happened during the hearing with Mervyn King and Andrea Enria, whose very determined action we applaud.
They came to see us in their capacity as Vice-Chairs of the European Systemic Risk Board, and we had the pleasure of hearing, from Mervyn King in particular - it was rather amusing, if you recall last year's negotiations, Commissioner - that the safeguard clauses, which the Member States delighted in adding to the package developed by the Commission, would not prevent them from following the recapitalisation guidelines given by the European Banking Authority (EBA).
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, last summer's stress tests were meant to restore confidence in banks.
The sovereign debt crisis will not be solved until the bank crisis is solved - and the bank crisis will not be solved until markets are confident in providing capital and liquidity to banks.
To put it in a nutshell: people in Greece, Ireland and Portugal have the feeling that they are suffering because the structure of our bank system is weak.
As has already been said many times, the 2010 stress tests were weak, particularly in relation to government risks, which were ignored almost entirely.
The picture is very similar in 2011.
This whole issue seems to illustrate the words of Bertolt Brecht when he said: founding a bank is a much worse crime than robbing one.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, the most fundamental weakness of the proposed stress tests has now been referred to.
For example, the Irish State is on track to owe EUR 750 billion by 2014, and we have a government debt that is more than EUR 120 000 per worker.
French banks are exposed to the tune of EUR 260 billion and British banks EUR 300 billion.
However, the stress tests that we are discussing were referred to as follows by the European Council on 24 and 25 March.
The financial crisis has shown us how important it is for citizens to have confidence in the banks and the payment systems.
Publication of the individual tests is very important in order to help strengthen citizens' and the market's confidence in the banks.
Thank you. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, stress tests are the latest thing.
I would therefore like to say that, in a case such as that, where an aeroplane crashes into a nuclear power station, there is clearly a default risk.
I would therefore like to make the following point: either you regard this as a possibility to be rejected, and if so I would say to you that you are in denial, because the figures of the Greek debt and the Irish debt clearly show that, sooner or later, those States are going to have to restructure their debt, or you are playing for time, and if so I would say to you that that is equally irresponsible, because the longer it takes to tackle the issue, the more it will cost society as a whole.
We need solvent financial institutions, a stable financial system and, above all, the restoration of the flow of credit into the real economy.
You will have our support for those procedures, Commissioner, so that an ambitious European framework can be created even in order to go further, because monetary union requires greater financial integration, but it also requires greater fiscal and political integration. (RO) Mr President, the stress tests are important for assessing the health of the banking system.
This transparency is demanded by both financial markets and citizens. (SV) Mr President, during the turbulent period that we have been experiencing with regard to our public finances over the last few years we have lost our focus on the root of the problem.
In our work to rescue the public finances of the weakest countries we have tended to forget that it is the banks that are our biggest problem.
All countries, and the strongest ones in particular, must ensure that they deal with the shortcomings that still remain in the banking system.
Thank you. (DE) Mr President, Mr Barnier, the EU stress test for banks conducted last summer is in need of a radical overhaul.
The financial year 2010 showed clearly how sensitive and important the publication of results is in terms of consistency.
The additional capital required was EUR 24 billion.
In this context, future tests must be much more precise in terms of providing information.
I should emphasise the importance of the Commission adopting a fair approach in applying the stress tests in absolutely every Member State.
Firstly, to come back immediately to the issue raised just now by Mrs Gáll-Pelcz, who talked about the responsibility of the Commission - I am used to facing up to my responsibilities - I would point out that these stress tests that are being performed today have been designed by, and are the responsibility of, the new authority that we have created together, the European Banking Authority.
Within the framework of the G20, and perhaps going further in some areas than the G20 had requested, we are today patiently recreating the governance, regulatory, transparency, I was going to say quite simply 'moral' - if I can use that word - or ethical frameworks and tools that have been singularly lacking in the financial market set-up for around 15 years.
My ambition, Mr Giegold, is to reflect rationally on what we have learnt from this round of tests, which will end in June, and to learn as much as we can from our dialogue with the EBA, in order to improve the following round.
We need more consistency, we need more Europe in the application of these tests, and that is why the peer review with the EBA will also be very useful.
Once again, in the overall context of this financial and economic governance that we are in the process of establishing together, the 2011 tests will be more rigorous, credible and transparent than the previous round, and we are going to build on the lessons and the review of this 2011 round in order to ensure that, as you have requested, the subsequent stages in the banking sector stress tests are even more effective, rigorous, credible and transparent.
Thank you very much, Mr Barnier.
This year a slightly improved test was also carried out, and we are all awaiting its results.
I feel that in order to restore EU citizens' faith in the banking and financial system in general and to ensure the credibility of the whole European financial institutional framework, the newly created European Banking Authority must be given much greater powers and a more important role.
