Small Business Act review (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on the Small Business Act (SBA) review by Bendt Bendtsen, on behalf of the PPE Group, Edit Herczog, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, Fiona Hall, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Reinhard Bütikofer, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Giles Chichester, on behalf of the ECR Group, and Niki Tzavela, on behalf of the EFD Group - B7-0301/2011), the oral question to the Commission on the Small Business Act (SBA) review by Bendt Bendtsen, on behalf of the PPE Group, Edit Herczog, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, Fiona Hall, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Reinhard Bütikofer, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Giles Chichester, on behalf of the ECR Group, and Niki Tzavela, on behalf of the EFD Group - B7-0302/2011).
In this resolution, the European Parliament is sending a clear signal to the Commission that it is now that the necessary decisions need to be taken to benefit our small and medium-sized enterprises.
I am pleased that we will now have a revision of the Small Business Act.
We must also ensure, every time we produce legislation, that we do not create additional burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Small Business Act has become incorporated into European thinking in recent times.
As regards access to financial resources, it is very important that the use of funds available at European Union level be more efficient.
We have achieved 75% efficiency until now and roughly 50 000 SMEs have received funds in this way.
At the same time, approximately 300 000 SMEs have managed to access funding under the competitiveness and innovation programme.
We would like all the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to hire at least one more employee.
author. - Mr President, the Small Business Act was given a warm welcome by SMEs, but that was two years ago.
We should not forget that micro-businesses of less than 10 employees actually make up over 90% of all EU businesses.
We need to find a practical way of continuing the measures which have been good for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, in programmes such as CIP, so that these activities do not fall by the wayside during the course of a reorganisation.
Firstly, there is no mention in the text of the effects of illegal trade on small businesses.
I think it is regrettable that few of our innovative SMEs grow into larger companies and that there are fewer young, R&amp;D-intensive, innovative firms in the EU than in the USA.
This is an issue we must address, and we must cultivate in Europe the risk-taking spirit that exists in the USA among the young generation of Americans.
Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, I am grateful to Parliament for the interest shown in the Small Business Act and the opportunity afforded by this especially to discuss what action we should take with regard to the different initiatives mentioned in relation to the review of the Small Business Act.
The Small Business Act is a very important tool which helps us create a more favourable business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Small and medium-sized enterprises make a major contribution to the European economy as the vast majority of companies belong to this category and they provide jobs for over 90 million people throughout Europe.
Accordingly, the Council welcomes with great pleasure the Commission's communication on the review of the Small Business Act, which was published on 23 February 2011.
In the communication, the Commission suggests various new initiatives in several priority areas for further action to be taken.
At the same time, it is the Presidency's firm intention to maintain the impetus of the process at the meeting of the Competitiveness Council to be held on 31 May 2011, which will also consider the mid-term review of the Small Business Act.
As regards the status of the European private company, the European Commission first made a recommendation on the subject in a Council draft regulation in 2008.
I will respond to the question on behalf of my colleague, Vice-President Antonio Tajani.
The EU is relying on SMEs and is creating the conditions under which they can develop and grow in order to create jobs in competitive markets.
These are the principles behind our SME policy as presented in the review of the Small Business Act for Europe.
The European Parliament and the Commission are working together on a study of the application of the SME test in the Member States and at European level.
They will meet for the first time at the SBA Conference in Budapest on 24 and 25 May this year.
The Commission is relying on the Parliament to ensure that our proposals are adopted as soon as possible.
Fourthly, the SBA has also created a framework to enable SMEs to take up the challenge of energy efficiency by improving their energy management and seizing the opportunities presented by the environmental market.
Moreover, as we well know, they make up more than 90% of the fabric of our business sector and they are a valuable model that we must maintain, because the effects of a large business failing or relocating are much more devastating, above all, in employment terms.
Mr President, Mr Rehn, the joint question on the review of the Small Business Act shows that there is still a great deal to be done to ensure that medium-sized companies in Europe have freedom to act, particularly on a national level.
However, I am pleased that in recent years, we have succeeded in implementing almost all the provisions of the Small Business Act in the European Union.
The issue just mentioned by Mrs Riera Madurell is also important, and that is public procurement.
There are many bureaucratic regulations in this area and it is often particularly difficult for small and medium-sized businesses to take part in the public procurement process.
We need greater transparency and we must also try to make the most of the opportunities presented by the modern media and, in particular, the Internet.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the Small Business Act is precisely what we, as politicians and legislators, should be focusing on as we look for ways of fostering new growth and re-energising our economies.
SMEs make up more than 98% of the businesses in my rural constituency of Wales.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, this review's 10 principles include helping SMEs to benefit from opportunities of the single market, but the eurozone is collapsing, so how can it provide more opportunities?
In September 2009, I asked Commissioner Andor what specific measures he would introduce to assist SMEs, following my similar request of him when he spoke to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on taking up the portfolio.
After all, Commission President Barroso said in this House in July last year: 'red tape is strangling SMEs'. (PL) Mr President, legislation which is too complex or unintelligible, which is too strict, or which does not keep up with the latest changes, is obviously not conducive to development or progress.
As coordinator of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would therefore like to draw particular attention to the importance, during the legislative procedure, of observing the principle of including small and medium-sized enterprises in ex ante and post ante impact assessments.
I therefore also regard it as legitimate to ask whether the analysis promised by the European Commission, concerning a reduction of the administrative burden to 25% of its current level, is available yet.
I also agree with the proposals to the effect that both the EU institutions and the Member States should be guided by these principles when creating new legislation or revising existing legislation.
There can be no doubt that good regulations in this area will give a direct boost to the development of innovation, particularly as regards the activities and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. (RO) Mr President, at the end of March 2011, the European Union had an unemployment rate of 9.5%, with a rate of 9.9% in the euro area.
Between 2006 and 2008, SMEs managed to win just 33% of the total value of public procurement contracts.
Given that public procurement contracts account for 17% of the European Union's GDP, we think that SMEs need to increase their involvement in the public procurement market.
This is why we call on the Commission and Member States to take the necessary measures by 2015 to ensure that at least 50% of public procurement transactions are carried out electronically, in keeping with the commitment made by Member State governments in Manchester in 2005.
I should point out that the single market is not in operation yet in the services sector, which is having an adverse impact on SMEs' business activities in the European Union.
In 2008, the Commission presented, as part of the European Economic Recovery Plan, the programme which involved the European Investment Bank offering a global package of EUR 30 billion in loans earmarked for SMEs.
I would like to ask the Commission at what stage of implementation this programme is at, whether it intends to top up the funding, and whether these funds are distributed equally to all Member States. (IT) Mr President, three million jobs have been lost in comparison with several million euro invested in support policies.
If the costs of the umpteenth strategy will still only finance talk, I call on the European institutions to make amends to the dozens of small entrepreneurs in my region, Veneto, who have taken their lives rather than see their small businesses fail. (LV) Mr President, Commissioner, parents very often pay attention to the child that cries the loudest, although in truth, attention ought to be paid to another child entirely.
For us in Europe, large enterprises are like large trees, but these large trees do not make up the whole enterprise wood.
In this context, then, Commissioner, I call upon you to pay greater attention to your own Commission's commitment to reduce the administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Thank you for your attention. (LT) Mr President, the Small Business Act adopted in 2008 was supposed to give impetus to the development of small business and the improvement of business conditions in Europe.
The clear conclusion is that in future, the Commission must take responsibility for overseeing the implementation of such important initiatives in the Member States.
The Erasmus programme you mentioned is also very important and I believe that in future, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament should all increase their efforts to ensure that such programmes do not suffer, and that henceforth we have people, better prepared people, to implement many of the theoretical wishes that we have expressed here today.
I agree with you entirely that Parliament should not consent to reducing such programmes in the future. (PL) Mr President, the work currently being carried out on the review of the Small Business Act should concentrate, in particular, on establishing a European Private Company Statute, thus facilitating the cross-border operations of economic entities in the EU market.
I would therefore suggest that the European Commission should become even more involved in efforts to ensure that the Member States implement these provisions.
In addition, I believe that further measures under the Small Business Act should also cover improved availability of funding, access to risk capital markets and the development of points of single contact in the Member States to facilitate administrative procedures.
It is worth pointing out that in order to achieve our objective of an employment level of 75%, as enshrined in the Europe 2020 strategy, it is imperative to support SMEs.
As a result of the economic crisis, these SMEs are feeling the strain of a series of additional expenses, instead of generating jobs. (RO) Mr President, the Small Business Act needs to be brought into line with the Europe 2020 strategy priorities to improve the regulatory environment to meet the needs of SMEs.
The government is supporting the set-up and development of at least 1 100 SMEs for young people. (RO) Mr President, I want to start by welcoming the European Commission's proposals for reviewing the Small Business Act for Europe.
In practical terms, the European Commission notes in its communication of 23 February 2011 the quite significant progress which has been made since the Small Business Act was adopted in June 2008, but warns about the challenges remaining.
Therefore, SMEs still have problems in expanding their activities, improving their innovative capacity, accessing markets and obtaining funding, and face excessive red tape.
An assessment also needs to be made of the impact which the new EU legislative proposals could have on SMEs. (SK) Mr President, more than two years have passed since the adoption of the Small Business Act initiative, and it is therefore right and proper that in February, the Commission issued a notification of the review of this initiative.
The experience from my own country shows me that national bureaucracies are unbelievably obstructive, and stubbornly resist all changes that would limit their ability to victimise small businesses.
I therefore believe we must persevere with the simplification of rules for SMEs patiently and rigorously, and trust that our efforts will somehow bring the expected result. (DE) Mr President, one particularly positive feature of the Small Business Act is the provision which makes it easier to establish companies in terms of both time and cost.
I also welcome the obligation on the public sector to pay invoices within 30 days.
I am thinking in this respect of subsidiaries and transfers of registered offices throughout Europe.
Finally, I would just like to say that we need to follow up on the measures to give small and medium-sized businesses access to China and other markets in Asia. (HU) Mr President, I agree with the statement in the review that further measures are needed.
I believe it is important for the European Union to have a better overview of how the governments of the Member States implement the Small Business Act.
We also need to encourage businesses to avail themselves of the opportunities in e-commerce and establish a European-wide patent.
If we do this, we can actually end unemployment and also help the creation of many new businesses. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Small Business Act review is a great opportunity if it is based on an understanding of how precious our small and medium-sized enterprises are.
The Commission is looking forward to working closely with all relevant players, especially the European Parliament, to ensure effective implementation of the Small Business Act at European level and at national level, in the Member States.
The economic environment has changed dramatically since 2008; hence, a review really is needed.
It is also a pleasure for me to announce that the Council is close to reaching an agreement on the Commission's aims to reduce the costs of establishing a business.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 12 May 2011.
The purpose of the SBA has been to reduce the administrative burden of doing business and improve access to finance for SMEs.
The principal message of the Small Business Act is to 'think small first' - to concentrate business legislation across the EU on small and medium-sized enterprises - and the EU has committed tonight to continue the focus on this area.
To this end, it is important that entrepreneurs in Ireland are fully informed on how to make best use of the Small Business Act.
The solutions provided for in the Small Business Act, including fewer bureaucratic obstacles, improved access to sources of funding, and easier access to the market, are particularly significant and, in my opinion, effective measures aimed at putting in place the best possible conditions for the development of SMEs.
Increased support is needed for financial programmes and instruments which are already operating successfully, but have turned out to be inadequate, such as the competitiveness and innovation programme.
Their development, their modernisation, and their competitiveness must be at the heart of our economic strategy.
