I would like a clarification please, and I hope other colleagues will support me.
Clearly there was not enough time this morning.
I am going to take 30 seconds because I have two blank pages.
Thank you very much, Mrs McGuinness.
The most recent report by the FAO mission in the state of Santa Catarina concluded that there were very few controls on cattle passing from Argentina to Brazil, or indeed between the different states in Brazil.
Consumers and producers in the European Union must be protected, and I do not think that a trade deal with Mercosur will achieve this.
Mr President, Commissioner, reopening negotiations with Mercosur when the European Union is getting ready to redefine its agricultural policy reveals a dangerous lack of consistency on the part of the Commission.
Europe already imports 500 000 tonnes of beef.
Europe buys 38 million tonnes of soya and feed for cattle.
These imports from Brazil and Argentina monopolise more than 19 million hectares.
Between 2001 and 2004 soya destroyed more than 1.2 million hectares of tropical and equatorial forest.
Convincing evidence of this can be found in the report by the Tyson group, a US corporation and heavyweight in the international meat market, which announced that it has invested in Brazil - I quote, and it is in its report - to use this country as a platform for exporting to Europe.
Other enterprises, such as the Doux Group, had already anticipated this move by buying out the Brazilian Frangosul Group in 1998.
Europe seems to want to pursue its policy of relocation by intensifying its attacks against farmers.
In particular, I would like to ask you why there seems to have been no consultation with this Parliament and with Parliament's Committee on Agriculture before the announcement was made.
The two are completely linked and therefore we need to understand what the impact will be.
I would like to hear some answers to these questions.
author. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Latin America as a whole and the Mercosur countries in particular are strategic partners of the European Union.
I therefore welcome the European decision to reopen negotiations on the association agreement with Mercosur, although I regret and condemn Argentina's recent protectionist actions, which are totally in contrast with the spirit of openness shown by the European side.
Above all, turning now to the issue that brings us here, I would like to congratulate the Council for starting negotiations on a major trade agreement, which is also political and relates to cooperation, between the European Union and Mercosur, which was decided upon at the Madrid Summit on 18 May of this year.
Commissioner, the next European Union-Brazil Summit, on 14 July, should serve, then, to promote and accelerate these negotiations, the completion of which has acquired even more importance during the economic crisis that we are going through; this agreement will contribute to a solution for it.
Starting with Mercosur, the relaunching of negotiations for an association agreement with Mercosur is of utmost importance for the EU, both politically and economically.
We have agreements in place with Chile and Mexico, and recently finalised negotiations with Colombia, Peru and Central America, so it is only logical to engage with Mercosur as well.
Mercosur is a large and dynamic economic entity with a combined GDP of EUR 1 300 billion and with GDP growth rates expected to reach around 5% in 2010 and 4% in 2011.
It is an increasingly important partner for the EU.
In terms of EU exports, it ranks on a par with India and ahead of countries such as Canada or Korea.
Relaunching these negotiations is also a sign of the commitment of both regions to continuing to promote free trade and to reject protectionism.
I could even add that the Council is of the opinion that I treated the European Parliament much better than I treated them, so they were not pleased at all.
The first meeting with Mercosur took place last week in Buenos Aires.
As regards your specific questions, the Commission is working on the basis of the negotiating directives adopted by the Council back in 1999.
We have not put down agricultural offers at this moment in time and there was a question - I do not know by whom - about the position of the Agriculture Commissioner in this respect.
As regards food safety, it goes without saying that imports have to fully respect EU food safety requirements.
Finally, as regards the impact of a possible agreement, a sustainable impact assessment of a trade agreement between the EU and Mercosur has already been carried out and has been publicly available since March 2009.
Brazil has uncontested international stature in line with the size of its territory, its population and its economic performance.
The partnership dates back to 2007 and the joint action plan, which translates the partnership into concrete actions, to 2008.
The multiplicity of joint initiatives, the level of mutual understanding and the deepening of the relationship, which includes 18 ongoing dialogues, bear witness to our satisfaction with the implementation of the joint action plan.
Further to a suggestion by President Lula at the EU-Mercosur Summit in Madrid, we are looking into a common position with Brazil for Cancún.
Unfortunately, I will not be in Brasilia, but given that we have only met recently to have the first technical talks after a long pause the Summit is unlikely to take firm decisions in relation to this negotiation.
The Summit will also address regional issues: Cuba, Honduras, Paraguay and Venezuela.
Third, a letter of intent between the Commission and the Brazilian National Council of Justice to advance trilateral cooperation in electoral support and justice reform will be signed in Brussels on 14 July.
Mr President, as regards the Mercosur countries, I would highlight the large deficit trade balance against the European Union in the agricultural product sector.
I should like to ask the Commissioner if he raised this issue last week during the first round of negotiations in Buenos Aires.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (PT) Mr President, the first EU-Brazil Summit, which was promoted by the Portuguese Presidency in 2007, filled an inexplicable gap.
This summit is also an opportunity to advance negotiations with Mercosur in order to reach a conclusion on an association agreement and overcome the current differences.
Commissioner, I would therefore like to voice my concern to you.
The Commission must hear this message and this demand.
Mr President, many fellow Members are concerned about the ramifications that the reopening of negotiations on an association agreement with Mercosur might have on European agriculture.
With more than 200 million consumers, the Mercosur countries, which, as we know, share many of our values and interests, are the most important market for our domestic products in Latin America.
We are targeting the world's largest free trade zone with a total of 700 million inhabitants and a trade volume of EUR 100 billion.
Nor must we lose sight of the misgivings of the agricultural sector in relation to cheap meat imports.
We must not further undermine the EU's self-sufficiency, which is already no longer absolute, and must avoid driving up the number of Europe's farmers leaving the land. (ES) Mr President, we are all pleased about the freeing of political prisoners in Cuba.
The main reason that this has been done with these countries is the need to defend European Union producers, of bananas in this case. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, during its meeting on 4 May 2010, the College of Commissioners decided to reopen negotiations on an association agreement between the European Union and the Mercosur countries.
Disastrous knock-on effects might also follow for other sectors, such as the pork sector for example.
In the past the Commission continually assured European consumers and Members of this House of the quality of imports into the European Union.
However, it was the farming organisations and MEPs which proved the Commission's position wrong on the issues of equivalence of quality and standards between imports and EU products, resulting in the number of exporting units in Brazil being reduced from 3 000 to under 1 000.
So, Commissioner, my question is: given the past experience and the current sporadic nature of FVO missions, how can the Commission guarantee consumers that all imports coming into the European Union are of equable quality and comply with European Union standards?
Naturally, the opening of Mercosur negotiations is an extremely important issue for our fellow Members in the Committee on Agriculture.
We have also received positive feedback in relation to the trade agreement with Central America, where new markets are also opening up, for example in the dairy sector.
However, Commissioner, this trade with the Mercosur countries should not be allowed to become a one-way street.
We purchase over 90% of African agricultural exports and 45% of Central and South American agricultural exports.
This is the truth, Mr De Gucht.
There is no need to provide an EU framework for this. - (HU) The European Commission defined the negotiating mandates some 11 years ago.
The world has changed over the past 11 years.
A new mandate must be created, taking into account the interests of the 12 Member States that joined the EU in recent years, as well as the global considerations of climate protection, environmental protection and animal welfare.
author. - Mr President, there was wisdom in my decision to hold back my contribution until I heard what I hoped would be answers.
The last speaker addressed some of the points that I would wish to make.
The Mercosur Meat Forum, which represents Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay, urged the negotiators not to waste an extraordinary opportunity for them.
If we undermine that part of our market, we will destroy beef production and the market in the European Union.
Although we are being told that Parliament was very well informed and that matters have been as transparent and as clear as possible, the way in which things have been initiated does not give us a good impression of a negotiation that is being held at the same time as other negotiations are taking place at the WTO.
To be honest, certain agricultural sectors are already being damaged by bilateral agreements and, in addition, the higher specifications for agricultural production in the European Union do not safeguard its superior quality compared with cheaper production from third countries.
Already we are talking about possible concessions on agriculture, and I would like you to clarify this.
We must end these talks and look after our farmers. (PL) Negotiations with the Mercosur countries were suspended in 2004.
This year, they have been reopened, and are being conducted on the basis of a mandate dating from 1999.
Such an important decision should have been preceded by a debate on policy in the European Parliament and in the Council.
These will be even higher if the agreement is both bilateral and made at WTO level. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, as a signatory to the present question I would like to return to a specific issue, namely that of food safety.
We would like to hear some answers from you about how you intend to adhere to these principles of food safety, consumer protection, animal protection and environmental protection in this trade agreement.
I would also like to draw your attention to the political aspects of Mercosur.
We have been discussing it for two hours, but there is one thing that most certainly is not sustainable, and there is clearly exactly the same problem with every President: the fact that we do not know when to ask for the floor in order to have our request granted.
Please let us know if there is clearly no desire to allow someone to talk about as important a topic as sustainability.
There is clearly no sustainability here if we have to ask every President to grant us our parliamentary right and allow us to speak.
Colleagues, by way of explanation, I have about 18 people on the list.
I understand that everybody would like to take the floor but we have five minutes for the catch-the-eye procedure - one minute each - so I can take five speakers.
The 1999 directives task us - and I am quoting - 'with negotiating a balanced and comprehensive agreement with Mercosur with the aim of liberalising substantially all trade in line with the EU's commitment at the WTO.
A formal démarche was launched by the EU delegation in Buenos Aires and several meetings were held with the mission of Argentina and its Ambassador in Brussels to express our strongest concerns.
We have also insisted that the commitment to reject protectionism in all its forms be directly included in the EU-Mercosur joint communiqué.
Last week in Buenos Aires we raised this topic bilaterally with the relevant Argentinean authorities, in the press and in the context of the EU-Mercosur first round of negotiations.
We were further intending to discuss the issue with Argentina on 6 July in the joint committee, but Argentina announced its postponement last week.
We have to stick to the ones that we can impose and make the WTO respect: we will certainly do so in the case of food safety.
Commissioner, I am also sure that this will not be the last time we do so.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (PT) The resumption of negotiations in September between Mercosur and the EU is a process of the utmost importance for the EU.
Reopening negotiations with the Mercosur countries without consulting the Member States was very dirty play.
Opening our market to imports is not an entirely bad initiative, but only if the same standards are in force in all countries.
in writing. - These Mercosour talks represent a potentially dreadful development for the future of European agriculture.
Dismissing Parliament's concerns of will not work, Commissioner De Gucht, and I would urge you to consult us more if you wish to have any potential agreement signed off by Parliament.
