Forced evictions in Zimbabwe author. - Mr President, we are once again discussing the difficult situation in Zimbabwe.
author. - Mr President, the first indent of our resolution says it all: 'Having regard to its numerous previous resolutions on Zimbabwe, most recently that of 8 July this year'.
People are being evicted who were already evicted in 2005 in Operation Murambatsvina, which incidentally means 'clean out the trash'.
Mr President, this urgent humanitarian resolution must be viewed against a backdrop of political disagreement between Robert Mugabe and Morgan Tsvangirai, and this disagreement is the focus of the request for the European Union not to accept the new ambassadors unilaterally appointed by Mr Mugabe.
Let us cast our minds back to June 2005 and Operation Murambatsvina, mentioned just now: a township was exposed to the forceful and purely politically motivated intervention of Robert Mugabe's bulldozers, and 700 000 people lost their homes.
The same thing is happening today: 20 000 of the poorest people in Zimbabwe, housed in the Hatcliffe Extension townships, not very far from Harare, are being threatened with eviction just because they cannot afford the exorbitant rents they are being charged; it is a rather extensive operation.
In the most recent one, as has been said, we denounced the arrest, on 22 July, of Mr Farai Muguwu, the founder and director of the Centre for Research and Development, whose crime was to report the atrocities committed in the diamond fields by, among others, the military authorities.
We are well aware that there is friction between President Mugabe and the Prime Minister following the global political agreement signed on 15 September 2008 and the appointment, on 13 February, of the government of national unity.
In these circumstances it is difficult to understand why the government considers it a priority to evict 20 000 citizens from the suburbs of the capital Harare, forcing them to leave behind their humble belongings.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, at the EU-Africa Summit in Libya next November there should be talks on how Mugabe and his close supporters remain a continuing stumbling block in the process of political and economic reconstruction and reconciliation in Zimbabwe.
Around 20 000 people living in the outskirts of Harare have been threatened with forced eviction.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (FI) Mr President, the woeful situation in Zimbabwe, the dictatorship which has prevailed there for more than 30 years, is a disgrace both for the international community and for Zimbabwe itself.
That is because every day this gang remains in power is a reflection of our powerlessness and of the fact that the international community does not have the muscle to keep this oppressor in check.
For this reason, we must adopt the very tough EU stand that we now quite rightly intend to. (RO) Echoing what has been said by my fellow Members who have spoken so far, we are facing a very tough situation because the 20 000 inhabitants of Hatcliffe Extension are threatened with eviction.
Since its creation in February 2009, Zimbabwe's Unity Government has done very little to improve people's situation, especially of those evicted in 2005.
Nearly 700 people were victims of the 2005 Operation Murambatsvina forced evictions.
Operation Garikai intended to assist those who were affected by the 2005 evictions is merely a continuation of the same human rights abuses.
