Burma - conduct of elections and the release of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi The next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on Burma - conduct of elections and the release of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
I would therefore like everyone to remember the emotion that overcame us when we saw the liberation of Aung San Suu Kyi on the television.
It is true that we have a particular link with this remarkable woman, who won one of the first Sakharov Prizes here, in 1990, and who, over 20 or 21 years of her life, spent nearly 15 years in prison.
However, this event must not make us forget, first of all, that her freedom is fragile.
There are still 22 000 prisoners of conscience in Burma today, and it remains one of the worst dictatorships in the world.
author. - Madam President, on 13 November, less than a week after the disputed national elections had been held, Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest after spending 15 of the last 21 years effectively imprisoned for her pro-democracy thoughts.
The welcome move of her release needs to be reflected in further expansions of freedoms to all citizens, which are systematically curbed through the 2008 constitution and the military junta.
Madam President, all those who deluded themselves that the so-called elections organised on 7 November - which were a farce - would bring us closer to democracy in Burma must feel disappointed.
It is true that a week after the elections, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi, was released.
Any step in the direction of democratisation and an improvement in the extremely problematical human rights situation is to be welcomed.
This serves to remind us that while the release of Aung San Suu Kyi obviously fills us with joy and hope now that we will be able to meet this remarkable woman, as has already been mentioned, and receive her here in Parliament, we cannot divert our attention from the most important matter for Burma, namely, the liberation of an entire people and the more than 2 000 political prisoners, along with the lifting of a general climate of intimidation and fear.
I recall, for instance, that the oil company TOTAL has holdings in Burma that make up 7% of the Burmese junta's budget.
However, we must not forget that there are still at least 2 200 other political prisoners being held in terrible conditions under the Burmese military dictatorship.
We must press for our Sakharov laureate to be allowed to travel here in December to collect her prize after a delay of 20 years and for her to be permitted to return to her homeland unmolested.
Madam President, first of all of course, I, too, want to welcome the release of Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader in Burma, after so many years under house arrest.
I would also like to express the hope that this release will be followed by the release of more than 2 000 political prisoners because, as Mr Posselt mentioned, we will otherwise view this as just a token gesture.
No one has been fooled by these deeply flawed elections in Burma; everyone has welcomed the release of Aung San Suu Kyi from house arrest; but everyone has also condemned the lack of other freedoms that is still imposed.
For this reason, Parliament must fight for human rights and for the freedom of political refugees in the region. (RO) Madam President, the European Parliament already requested in February 2010 the release of Aung San Suu Kyi, who had been living under house arrest since 1990.
The liberation of Aung San Suu Kyi is a step in the right direction.
We must recognise it and praise it.
To our delight at Aung San Suu Kyi's release, we must necessarily add a strong request to that effect. (PL) Madam President, we all remember the years when Lech Wałęsa was released from prison and when Nelson Mandela was released after so many years.
The release of the Burmese opposition leader, Mrs San Suu Kyi, is also a great challenge for us.
I am pleased that Mrs Ashton will soon go to Burma and meet Mrs San Suu Kyi.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, like all of us, I would like to pay homage to Aung San Suu Kyi, whose freedom has just been restored.
It is essential that Aung San Suu Kyi has unrestricted freedom of movement and speech.
The fact that there are 2 200 political prisoners lingering in appalling conditions in detention facilities and that the Burmese military is responsible for continuing extrajudicial killings, forced labour, sexual violence and other human rights violations cannot be undone by releasing one political activist, no matter how prominent.
Aung San Suu Kyi, recipient of the Sakharov Prize in 1990, has famously asked us to use our liberty to promote theirs.
The release of Aung San Suu Kyi is a positive.
Currently, more than 1 000 'political prisoners' are still being held.
The blatant disregard for free elections is a clear indication that the new government has little or no interest in providing a true democracy for the people of Burma.
