Situation in Western Sahara (debate) The next item is the debate on the situation in Western Sahara.
It could also be raised within the Joint Parliamentary Committee between the European Parliament and Morocco.
The European Union supports the efforts of the United Nations Secretary-General with a view to achieving a just, lasting, and mutually acceptable political solution which will provide for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara, in agreement with the Security Council resolutions. (DE) Madam President, I have been waiting for 70 minutes for Question Time to begin and would like to ask when it will actually take place.
Morocco's intransigence continues to deny justice to the people of Western Sahara, who have been waiting for a referendum on independence for the past 20 years.
However, we must not treat lightly the fact that 15 000 people have lost their homes and been forced to leave the towns where they lived, and this is, in fact, only one example of human rights violations which go back to 1975.
There needs to be a permanent, fair and mutually acceptable solution, within the framework of the United Nations, to a conflict that has now gone on for more than 30 years and is condemning thousands of Saharan refugees to despair and condemning a neighbouring area that is of fundamental importance to the European Union to instability.
The Moroccan security forces violently dismantled the camp and, as a result, serious riots broke out in Al Aaiún.
Hence, we are telling Morocco that it must do much more to resolve the Western Sahara situation.
Madam President, that is not right, because the Sahrawi are a courageous but mild-mannered people, they live their religion in the right way and their women have important roles in society.
It has taken us a long time to hold the debate on Western Sahara in the European Parliament, and I think that we have been too hesitant in our actions and that we act only after there have been fatalities there.
There have been 35 years of illegal suffering and occupation.
Therefore, the European Union should condemn all cases of violations of the law, but I think that greater effort should be made to help UN forces, so that they can be still more effective in ensuring security in the area. (FR) Madam President, on 8 November, the Moroccan authorities used violence in dismantling the camp set up near Laâyoune, in Western Sahara, resulting in deaths and numerous injuries.
I am absolutely outraged that a Member State, in this instance France, should object to the request for a UN fact-finding mission looking into these events.
Uganda's proposal at the UN Security Council meeting on 16 November was however both legitimate and desirable.
The Moroccan authorities cannot even decide how many people were killed in the raid at the camp in Laâyoune.
However, when a protest camp was cleared in the occupied Western Sahara, with people being killed in the process, and the town in question was declared a no-go zone, even for journalists, there was a lack of combined dynamic action from the international community.
The European Union should act as a neutral mediator and try to bring both parties in the dispute to the table once again. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the compromise reached for the resolution.
However, it has to be clear to us that we cannot ignore international law on account of economic interests. (DE) Madam President, I, too, am very pleased that we finally have a resolution on the conflict in Western Sahara in this House.
The clearing of the camp at Laâyoune seems to have resulted in about a dozen deaths, more than 700 wounded, 150 missing and 160 arrested by the Moroccan authorities and is believed to have led to the killing of a Spanish citizen of Sahrawi origins, Baby Hamday Buyema.
The resumption of informal talks between the parties, which took place on 7 and 8 November 2010, must represent the first sign that a fair solution can been peacefully accepted by the parties.
