Through hard work, we have now succeeded in securing a compromise that will benefit patients, who will be protected against unreasonably long waiting times, and, at the same time, we have found a balance that will ensure that the Member States will be able to monitor what is happening from both a medical and a financial point of view.
The result that we have achieved here today is an extremely good one that will benefit patients and the Member States.
The directive we have approved today will finally enable all patients to enjoy a series of rights and healthcare services throughout Europe.
The aim is absolutely not to encourage cross-border healthcare as such, but to ensure its availability, safety and quality when it is of use or necessary.
The current situation is unsatisfactory.
I would therefore like to make this clear and say that we will continue to ensure that the directive is complied with in this respect. (DA) Madam President, we are here again today with something that has been pushed through by people who have not been elected, namely, the European Court of Justice, which, by means of a series of rulings, has put pressure on the genuinely elected institutions to also draw up this directive that has been voted through today.
It could be Denmark, where I come from, Germany, the Netherlands or another country in the EU where healthcare is known to be of a high quality.
This was dumped on us by the Court of Justice but I welcome it, and I want to compliment Ms Grossetête for producing an excellent report, because with this directive, patients will benefit from complete and transparent information when they resort to healthcare abroad.
Patients with rare diseases will be able to benefit from cross-border expertise and diagnosis so long as the treatment is unavailable in their Member States.
Finally, it allows cooperation between Member States.
So to me it is another step in the right direction; it is another step in strengthening cooperation between the Member States and bringing about greater cohesion within the Union.
Indeed, I welcome the progress that this text represents for the mobility of patients throughout Europe.
After many years of uncertainty, particularly legal uncertainty, and considerable work on the part of the European Parliament, this text offers a simplification, clarification and codification of the conditions under which European citizens can benefit from healthcare in a European State other than their State of residence, in terms of both access and reimbursement.
I regard the directive in its current form as a good compromise, based predominantly on patients' rights, but also protecting the interests of the national health funds of the Member States.
For citizens of countries such as Poland, the opportunity to receive treatment abroad means equal opportunities when it comes to benefiting from modern healthcare.
The directive will make it possible for citizens to decide for themselves whether to wait many months for the procedure to be carried out in their own country, or whether to choose somewhere else to receive treatment.
It will be easier for them to decide how to be treated if they are aware of the fact that the costs of the procedure will also be reimbursed - at least to a large extent, and sometimes even entirely - if it is carried out in another European Union Member State.
It is very important for our citizens to realise that this directive will not come into force for 30 months.
But, in the meantime, citizens can cross borders to get healthcare in another Member State and can be reimbursed for the care that they receive.
That is very important.
I urge those citizens who may be watching on the Internet or elsewhere to take a look and, if I have not asked the right questions, to prompt me because we need to spread the word about this very positive move towards cross-border healthcare for all. (PL) Madam President, European society is becoming ever more mobile.
Citizens living in the European Union should have the right to benefit from free emergency medical care wherever they are in Europe.
It goes without saying that we should put in place instruments which prevent what is known as health tourism while, at the same time, making it easier for the patients who need it most to benefit from new opportunities.
I am thinking primarily of treatment for unusual and rare diseases carried out in specialist centres, often outside the borders of the country in which the patient lives.
This is a domestic competence, and the Member States are free to take their own decisions in this respect.
Naturally, I voted in favour. (FI) Madam President, it was high time we established common European rules to protect our citizens and patients.
This right of patients to crossborder healthcare will compel the Member States of the EU to ensure that there are no waiting lists in their own countries.
The prior authorisation system is necessary: without it, many Member States could have difficulties controlling the costs of their own healthcare system and planning and assessing the future.
Most want to receive health services close to home and in their own language.
As several of the speakers have already said, the current proposal is here, of course, because a citizen from your own country, from the south of England, challenged the system and because the Court of Justice vindicated her rights.
It is right that a foreign national in Britain should receive emergency treatment when necessary, but no foreign nationals should be admitted to Britain unless they have first taken out adequate travel and health insurance.
I might say that this regulation on crossborder healthcare could result in the waiting lists that have come into existence in many Member States being dissolved.
Furthermore, it is just as important to remember that patient safety is essential when we engage in crossborder cooperation, and to ensure, at the same time, that there are proper standards of healthcare and treatment everywhere.
I therefore enthusiastically welcomed this report by Mrs Grossetête and I hope that it will promote public health in Europe and that, as a result, we can save a lot of people and speed up their recovery. (DE) Madam President, I believe it is important that we do not use the national tax systems to work against the internal market.
This is essential particularly in the case of cross-border services which is where equal treatment is needed.
That is why I and many others will welcome this vote today on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
I hope that what we see in those jurisdictions where patients get a poor service will be patients voting with their feet, within their rights under this directive, and moving to another Member State, thereby pressurising healthcare systems to improve their service and to ensure that they meet their patients' needs.
Once we have sorted out those problems, this ought to be a directive of which we can all be proud. (GA) Madam President, I voted in favour of the resolution relating to the arrangement between the European Union and Cameroon and between the European Union and the Republic of Congo regarding forest law and trade in timber from those countries.
It is for that reason that I put forward an amendment which states that forests and forestry industries should be in public ownership and under the democratic direction of the workforce in those industries as well as of the indigenous people who inhabit the forests. (DA) Madam President, free trade is, in reality, the only way to achieve prosperity.
We have seen this in the internal market amongst the EU Member States, and there is no doubt that this will also be the case where the developing countries are concerned.
If we take a look around the world at how the other large regions operate, conclude agreements and view their partners from a strategic point of view, we can certainly see that they are all moving quicker and quicker.
We have a large free trade area between North and South America, in the ASEAN countries, Asia and Mercosur, etc.
The only area which, in this regard, is standing back and is almost paralysed by the challenges of globalisation is the EU.
Unfortunately, when it comes to international multilateral discussions on free trade, the WTO Doha round is stalled and, for that reason, the EU is now following the example of the US and others in signing more and more bilateral agreements.
We can bring the benefits of free trade to many of the citizens of poorer countries while recognising some of the transitional problems they will have to face in adjusting to increased competition.
I am very pleased to recognise now that the initiatives taken by Fiji and Papua New Guinea on creating an Economic Partnership Agreement will not only help us to trade more liberally with them, but will also enable them to trade intra-regionally with each other.
International adoption has proved to be the procedure most likely to offer the chance of a permanent family to those children for whom a suitable family cannot be found in their country of origin.
Cooperation among the Member State authorities with responsibility for international adoptions is important for ensuring that adoption is carried out in the child's best interests and with respect for his or her fundamental rights, as well as for preventing the selling and trafficking of children.
Lastly, Romania gives cause for concern, since it is the only country in the European Union to have a law banning international adoptions.
There are currently about 70 000 orphans in the country, 40 000 of whom are in orphanages and 30 000 in foster care.
The Commission should cast some light on the case of Romania, so that those abandoned children can be welcomed into families through international adoption. (CS) Madam President, as I was unable, due to childcare responsibilities, to participate in what was clearly an interesting debate on Monday, I would at least like to express my full support now to this assembly, which I have also expressed through my vote.
If we are truly to put the rights of the child at the centre of this debate, which we did in this House and which this resolution also does, then we will do the right thing for all children, no matter which Member State they were born in.
It is important not to pick on any particular Member State but to recognise that all countries have children who are abandoned or not cared for within the nuclear family as we know it and who need other forms of caring.
Can I finally say that to some extent, those who adopt and are successful are put through much more rigour than those who simply give birth. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts at this time are with the thousands of couples around the world who every day face the necessary difficulties involved in adopting a child.
I know of several people in my own constituency who have gone, or who are right now going, through this process and it is a delight to watch the joy in parents' and children's faces alike at the conclusion.
Paramount in all of this, however, are the needs and safety of the children, many of whom are in great need.
In this case, both parent and child lose out. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been facing the problem of international adoption in Europe for many years, and today's resolution finally attempts to bring a ray of hope to a situation that is becoming increasingly complex and difficult.
Instead of stimulating international adoption, the accession of new countries has made it even more difficult for many couples to be able to offer a new home and family to children who have experienced great suffering and deprivation in their own countries.
That is why we are in favour of this motion for a resolution.
It is important that we get it right.
What I really want to say here - and I have learned a lot through helping a constituent, and I am currently helping a constituent - is that it is not sufficient to lay all this out in a resolution.
Otherwise, we will simply be trying to reinvent the wheel for Europe, and will end up making the process even more difficult. (FI) Madam President, I also want to say how happy I am with this resolution on international adoption.
It is in the interests of everyone that adoption does not involve anything that is unethical or linked to human trafficking or child trafficking.
It is very important to ensure that a child is not a means to an end, but one who, through adoption, finds a loving home and who will be treated as a unique, precious individual.
It is important that the child should have the chance to have a father and mother, to have that right, and that is why, when decisions on adoption are taken, it is important to take the overall situation in a family into consideration.
We know that some studies have shown that we carry our cultural genotype in our DNA, but we need to ensure that a child can benefit from a good, loving home and a cultural environment where he or she can grow and develop into a wellbalanced person and citizen. (DA) Madam President, Serbia is probably the European country that, over the last thousand years of history, has been besieged the most, first by the Turks, then by the Germans and then the Russians.
However, they are nevertheless allies.
For that reason, my party supports the continuation of this dialogue. (SK) Madam President, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and Serbia creates a basis for close and lasting relations based on reciprocity and common interests, and contributes to political, economic and institutional stabilisation both in Serbia and throughout the Balkans.
It also represents for Serbia a new opportunity to transform and prosper through the overall restructuring and modernisation of the economy.
Faced with a choice between democracy and supra-nationalism, the European Union almost always opts for supra-nationalism and nowhere is this clearer than in its policy in the Western Balkans.
It is very difficult to have a functioning democracy unless people feel enough in common with one another to accept government from each other's hands.
So, in all these different respects, a country which went through a very difficult war has now emerged as a nation that is fit and suited to be a good partner to other Member States of the European Union.
I congratulate them on that. (PL) Madam President, I would like to say one more thing on the subject of Serbia.
The agreement we voted on today between the European Union and Serbia is a milestone on the way to the association of this country with European structures.
Twelve Member States have already ratified the treaty, the aim of which is to open the door to Serbia's membership in the European Union.
The agreement has my full approval, and I would like to call on the remaining Member States to ratify it as quickly as possible.
Nevertheless, all measures aimed at extending democracy and strengthening the protection of human rights in Serbia or, in other words, measures which lead to political, economic and social stabilisation in the country, are a source of great satisfaction to me, and they have my support. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of this report because I believe the Commission communication on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias is a fundamental step towards linking up the various existing health policies in Europe in order to tackle this type of disease.
We therefore intend to renew our commitment to fight the fragmented action, the uneven responses that exist in Europe and the prevailing unequal conditions regarding access and treatment for the disease.
We intend instead to promote early diagnosis and quality of life, improve epidemiological knowledge of the disease and coordinate existing research, while supporting solidarity between the Member States through sharing best practices.
In this report, we call for improved coordination between the Member States and a more effective and solidarity-based response geared to prevention and the treatment of people living with dementias, particularly Alzheimer's, as well as the people around them, whether they be healthcare professionals, service providers or relatives.
For any European strategy in this area to work, it is crucial - I am finishing - that the various countries give priority to drawing up national action plans. (GA) Madam President, I voted for this report and am pleased that it was accepted almost unanimously.
I must say that I attended the entire debate in Parliament but I did not get a chance to speak.
Those are very important questions.
Those questions can not be answered without research, and I urge the Commission to select one renowned medical centre to carry out that research and to answer those questions. (PL) Madam President, Alzheimer's disease is an affliction for which humankind has not yet found a remedy.
The problem of dementia affects not only those suffering from the disease, but also their immediate family and friends, who are often forced to devote their lives to caring for their loved ones.
We urgently need reports of this kind, in which a problem is highlighted and proposals are made for initiatives to improve the quality of our health and life.
It goes without saying that combining the efforts of the EU Member States, creating preventive programmes and providing social support for entire families are all projects which merit our support in every respect.
Also, the resolution deplores the serious housing crisis in Haiti and talks about the need for a land register and ownership, but also calls on the Commission, in the spirit of consensus, to ensure that a significant effort is made in conjunction with government to sort out the problem.
The one issue that seems to be missing here is the role of the private sector.
When we look at the work at grassroots level, the various aid organisations have done well.
When we examine Europe's contribution in Haiti, many Christian aid organisations have done excellent work at grassroots level - that is, they have helped people to survive.
We should, furthermore, acknowledge these efforts and support them for what they are, but in the crisis in Haiti, there is also a need for larger-scale and better coordinated action at European and, obviously, at UN level. (NL) Mr President, Lithuania is a sovereign Member State.
There is no way I can support such arrogance. (SK) Madam President, the right to pass national laws belongs to the lawmaking body of the relevant state.
Nevertheless, in the Parliament text just adopted, this fact was stubbornly and unreasonably presented in the plural, and it was even mentioned six times that allegedly there were many bad amendments.
As you will remember, we went through our own debates on this in Britain.
We had our own arguments over Section 28.
I was against it even in the very earliest days when it was still called Section 27.
We might in this House have very strong views about abortion law in Poland or euthanasia law in the Netherlands.
We should have the humility to recognise the right of democracy and parliamentary supremacy within the 27 Member States.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour of this document, which aims to strengthen patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
This directive is intended to allow all patients - and not only the best informed or richest - to enjoy a series of healthcare rights which have already been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
It should be stressed that the aim of this document is absolutely not to encourage cross-border healthcare as such, but to ensure its availability, safety and quality when it is of use or necessary.
I agree that we must combat 'medical tourism', but in order to protect patients' rights, we must introduce a simplified prior authorisation system for patients which will nevertheless ensure that healthcare managers are given advance warning of any exceptional costs related to travel to healthcare institutions in other EU Member States.
This recommendation to the Council was vital for giving patients the greatest possible legal certainty so that they can exercise their rights in practice, as pointed out by the European Court of Justice.
This approach, however, does not interfere with the Member States' exclusive competences over the management of their domestic health systems or their national health policy choices, as laid down in the Treaty.
The recommendation also clarifies patients' rights as specified by the European Court of Justice and the improvement in overall legal certainty regarding cross-border healthcare.
The aim is to facilitate access to safe, high quality cross-border healthcare with reimbursement, and to promote cooperation between Member States on healthcare.
I voted in favour of this report because it is true that there is a particular uncertainty at present about issues regarding access to care, medicine and reimbursements in the area of cross-border healthcare.
While it is crucial not to increase the pressure on national health systems or add to the inequality in those systems, patients must have the right and the freedom to seek cross-border healthcare and must be informed about those same rights.
I welcome what the report contains about providing contact points in all Member States to inform patients of the medical treatments available, how to apply for cross-border healthcare, and how to lodge a complaint or appeal.
European Union citizens expect their Member States to provide safe, high quality, and efficient healthcare services.
The Member States themselves have competence for their own healthcare systems, and therefore accessibility and quality varies somewhat.
Patients are not always able to obtain appropriate treatment in their own Member State, and this is essentially contrary to the freedoms guaranteed by the EU Treaty.
I do not feel that the free movement of patients and the right to choose treatment in another Member State will encourage medical tourism.
I believe that it may be a positive sign to Member States to undertake appropriate reforms in the area of healthcare services and ensure that the healthcare services provided are as diverse and of as high a quality as possible, so that, if necessary, patients can obtain treatment in another Member State.
The directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare is a vital step towards patient mobility within the European Union.
Moreover, there are clear advantages for patients, especially those suffering from rare and complex diseases, since it will be possible to diagnose and treat them in the most suitable Member State.
Such mobility will also enable patients to legitimately avoid national waiting lists, taking advantage of the medical services on offer in other EU countries.
This directive will enable all patients to benefit from a certain number of rights which have already been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
This is undoubtedly a step forward in the process of European integration, in strengthening solidarity, and in a Europe which is focused on its citizens.
I voted in favour of this report for these reasons.
I voted for this report and would like to thank the rapporteur for the job she has done and for the suggestions.
I also voted for the idea of setting up a simplified prior authorisation system for patients.
This is good news for all those patients who are on long waiting lists and struggling to receive treatment in their own Member State.
I voted for this report because this proposal for a directive aims to give all patients the right and opportunity to obtain essential healthcare services in other Member States as quickly as possible.
Furthermore, it clearly lays out the cases in which these services can be used, because at present, the rules regarding reimbursement when using these services are not always clear and understandable.
I would like to stress that this directive must be aimed at all patients - and not only the best informed or richest - and should ensure the safety of all patients.
However, around 25 million Europeans suffer from rare diseases and they should therefore be given the opportunity to receive healthcare in other Member States.
Furthermore, I agree with Parliament's position that, in order to avoid discrimination against people on lower incomes, the Member State of origin must pay the hospital in the other Member State that is providing the treatment directly, without requiring citizens to settle an account in advance, or any costs incurred by the patient should at least be reimbursed immediately.
I voted for the Grossetête report because it eliminates the uncertainty that has persisted for many years over the issue of the payment of costs and the related issue of access to cross-border healthcare.
While it has, so far, been the better informed or more motivated patients that have made use of the advantages of cross-border healthcare, this possibility is now opening up for everyone else.
I agree with the conditional payment of costs based on prior consent in justified and precisely defined cases, when the cross-border healthcare includes a patient stay of at least one night in hospital, and requires highly specialised and costly medical equipment, or there is a particular risk for the patient or the general population.
The increase in health tourism does not reflect well on many European health systems.
If a patient is facing an unreasonably long waiting time in his home country, however, we should not be surprised if he wants to travel to a place where he will receive more rapid and also perhaps better quality healthcare.
In countries to which foreigners travel in greater numbers for medical treatment and operations, however, there is a risk that domestic patients will be treated only after the demand from foreign patients has been met.
This directive establishes rules for facilitating access to cross-border healthcare that is safe and of high quality, and which promotes healthcare cooperation between the Member States, while fully respecting national jurisdictions.
There are clear advantages for patients, especially those suffering from rare and chronic diseases, since they will be able to benefit from and access centres of expertise in the area of the disease from which they suffer.
This directive is another example of Europe being put at the service of Europeans, as it allows them to choose the institution that will provide suitable healthcare, irrespective of the European country in which it is located.
This means that the creation of clear rules on the provision of cross-border healthcare is essential, especially as regards the issue of costs of healthcare incurred in another Member State.
In accordance with the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, this directive allows the European public the greater security of enabling them to benefit from the healthcare they need in a different Member State and to be reimbursed up to the amount set out by their national system.
This directive is a crucial first step towards ensuring patient mobility within the EU, as the existence of standardised minimum rules is preferable to recourse to case-by-case judicial decisions.
I welcome the adoption of the directive aiming to introduce new rules governing cross-border healthcare.
The directive therefore allows for significant progress to be made in improving health services, by striking the right balance between the needs of the Member States, which are responsible for providing healthcare services, and those of the citizens, who are the principal beneficiaries of such services.
The possibility for EU citizens to be treated anywhere in the EU will force states whose healthcare systems are in a precarious state to change their priorities and devote the proper attention to this area.
Similarly, this opportunity will put the different systems in direct competition with each other, forcing them to develop and give the appropriate attention to patients' expectations and needs.
I regard as useful the introduction, in the directive concerning payment for healthcare services provided abroad, of the requirement to draw up a list of specific criteria and conditions for a national authority to justify its refusal to give treatment to a patient abroad.
These conditions must take into account the possible risk to the patient or general public in the situation where a number of such requests are made.
in writing. - I support this proposal on cross-border healthcare.
Healthcare should never be treated as a commercial market service.
While ensuring high quality, safe and efficient cross-border healthcare, it is important to ensure a proper balance between the right of EU patients to seek treatment abroad and the capacity of national health systems and national healthcare priorities.
This directive will clarify the reimbursement of costs for treatments that patients have received in another Member State and will ensure the good functioning and the financial balance of national health systems.
It is important that Member States can decide to establish a well-defined system of prior authorisation for reimbursement of costs of hospital or specialised care.
The European Parliament has maintained a united and firm position with regard to this genuine recognition of patients' needs in Europe, which represents a first step towards strengthening their right to access safe and high quality healthcare in Europe.
Seeking healthcare abroad could, in particular, benefit patients who are on long waiting lists, or those who are unable to find specialised healthcare.
The cross-border healthcare issue has been under negotiation for a long time, and it caused an outcry when, in a previous draft, the risk emerged of creating two-speed healthcare specifically promoting medical tourism for better-off patients and harming those Member States which could not have planned their healthcare provision on the basis of a demand that depended on the quality offered ...
It allows European patients to benefit from treatments that are not available in their own countries or for which there are very long waiting lists.
This is one more step towards a more concrete Europe of health.
Within the framework of EU freedoms, every citizen should be able to make use of healthcare services in another Member State as a matter of principle, if the therapy or treatment there is of a better quality or quicker, and where he pays for this treatment or therapy himself.
Enabling people to access healthcare in another Member State is therefore a priority issue.
You can receive treatment in another Member State only in emergencies.
It is therefore not possible to plan healthcare or medical treatment in another Member State.
This is simply nonsensical, because no citizen can join health insurance schemes in two or more EU countries, since he can have only one main permanent address, and that will be in the country in which he permanently resides.
We are therefore legislatively preventing EU citizens from investing in their health and treatment to a greater extent, if they try to do this.
The recommendation represents at least a small step in the right direction, and I will therefore vote for its adoption.
This proposal clarifies and facilitates access to cross-border healthcare and the exercise of the right to reimbursement by the Member State of affiliation, enabling all patients in the EU to benefit from healthcare in other Member States.
In fact, these rights were already recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
It is a step forward in the European integration process and in strengthening solidarity, with reduced waiting lists, improved quality of healthcare and an incentive towards scientific research.
Portugal has excellent healthcare and cannot remain on the sidelines of this important project: the country must take advantage of this directive to modernise even further and must compete in terms of being able to provide services in this area to all Europeans in need of them.
I welcome the new legislation governing patients' rights to medical treatment in another EU Member State.
Approval of our French colleague Mrs Grossetête's report comes after long negotiations with the Council, and will allow for significant progress to be made in an area in which existing legislation was not sufficient.
The new legislation, which only affects people choosing to be treated abroad, establishes that EU citizens may be reimbursed for medical treatment they receive in another Member State, providing the health system in their Member State of affiliation covers the treatment and associated costs.
This final text is the result of a compromise with the majority of the Council, allowing 30 months for its transposition by the Member States.
Our vote against is due to the application of the principle of free movement to health services, without taking account of their specificities, including the need for a public national health service whose primary purpose in each country is to respond to the needs of its citizens.
We should bear in mind that this proposal by the Commission has come about following Parliament's refusal in 2007 to allow the inclusion of health services in the directive on services in the internal market, because of the crucial struggle of the workers and the public, which defeated that part of the infamous draft Bolkestein Directive.
It is crucial to improve the situation regarding the right of citizens to receive healthcare when they are in another Member State.
However, I believe it is a good thing for patients to be able to enjoy the right to medical treatment in another Member State and be reimbursed up to the maximum amount allowed by their own healthcare system.
Therefore, I have decided to support Mrs Grossetête's recommendation.
I support a patient's right to seek necessary medical treatment in a European country that is not the patient's home country.
I would not be in favour of 'medical tourism', but I would favour a system that would help retired people who are living abroad, and those with a rare or unusual disease.
It is important for medical treatment received in a Member State other than a patient's Member State of affiliation to be based on a proven, objective need, in order to avoid burdening national health systems with excessive costs which would inevitably compromise their efficiency.
A step forward has been taken with regard to rare diseases: patients will find it easier to access highly specialised treatment and will have the option of asking to see a specialist in another Member State.
I therefore believe that the establishment of national contact points to ensure that patients are fully informed about treatment available in other countries and about how to access and be reimbursed for cross-border treatment is important.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that Member States' exclusive jurisdiction over available treatments and ethical choices in the field of health should not, under any circumstances, be called into question.
The directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare is an absolutely vital new legal instrument which can bring significant improvements to the situation of patients in the European Union.
As a result, only the most affluent can afford the luxury of treatment abroad.
In response to these problems, the proposal for a directive provides for administrative procedures to be simplified as much as possible, for example, by limiting the obligation for prior authorisation of treatment by the national healthcare body, and by ensuring better exchange of information on medical services in other countries by setting up national contact points.
I also believe that the directive can, in the long term, help to approximate the level of medical services in the individual EU Member States.
I am therefore wholeheartedly in favour of the proposal for a directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare and hope that the negotiations, which have already gone on for seven years, will result in an agreement with the Council.
The compromise between Parliament and the Council is acceptable, in particular, because it recognises the right of States to take measures to safeguard the financial equilibrium of their social security systems, not least through a prior authorisation system for the financial reimbursement of hospital treatment received in another Member State.
The former Commission was misguided in thinking that healthcare was just another commercial service.
in writing. - I welcome the Grossetête report on the adoption of a directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
High quality, equity, solidarity and universality in healthcare must remain the guiding principles during the transposition and implementation phases in the various Member States.
As someone who hails from the only region in France to share a border with three other EU Member States and who represents a constituency that is particularly affected by cross-border issues, I am very sensitive to these problems.
That is why I voted resolutely in favour of this report on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
This is therefore a decisive and a very concrete step that will bring real added value to the construction of a social Europe and of a true Europe of health.
I welcome the directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
The provision of healthcare services in the shortest possible time and with a clear patient focus, which can also be used by other Member States, is an essential requirement in order to bring Europe closer together.
I am particularly in favour of providing added value for patients who are on waiting lists.
These new regulations will enable them to be treated more quickly in another Member State, rather than waiting a long time for treatment in their own country.
Furthermore, I should like to thank the Spanish Presidency for this and for having supported the re-establishment of the prior authorisation system for cross-border and specialised care.
The directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare is a key step towards abolishing the barriers which patients have encountered in the EU Member States to date.
Its primary goal is to make it easier for Europeans to access healthcare in other EU Member States and, in particular, to access services which are not readily available in their own country.
This is particularly good news for those who live in cross-border areas and, above all, for individuals suffering from rare diseases who need specialist treatment which is not available in their own country.
They should be similarly informed about the procedures for obtaining reimbursements for the costs of such treatment, which will be reimbursed according to the current costs in the country in which the patient is insured.
I believe that the solutions which have been found will make it easier for patients to access safe, high quality medical care throughout the European Union.
I accordingly voted in favour of the report and am confident that it will improve patients' rights across Europe.
I voted in favour of this document, because it aims to strengthen patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
This directive is intended to allow all patients - and not only the best informed or richest - to enjoy a series of healthcare rights which have already been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
The aim of this document is absolutely not to encourage cross-border healthcare as such, but to ensure its availability, safety and quality when it is of use or necessary.
Furthermore, I agree with Parliament's position that, in order to avoid discrimination against people on lower incomes, the Member State of origin must pay directly the hospital in the other Member State that is providing the treatment, without requiring citizens to settle an account in advance, or any costs incurred by the patient should at least be reimbursed immediately.
I voted in favour of adopting the Grossetête report for several key reasons.
The fact that the directive introduces wide-ranging access to medical care for individuals suffering from rare diseases, and higher rates of reimbursement for disabled people, are additional points in its favour.
The issue of authorisation has given rise to much debate.
If a Member State has not authorised patients to receive specialist treatment at national level, the directive does not create any new right for patients to receive such treatment abroad or for the costs of treatment to be reimbursed.
in writing. - (LV) The directive on the right of European Union citizens to receive medical treatment in any of the 27 Member States is a significant step towards better healthcare in the European Union.
Citizens will be able to receive initial treatment in any Member State, and doctors will not be able to withhold treatment.
The directive provides that, in future, citizens will be able to choose in which Member State to receive planned medical services.
This is particularly important in cases of complicated or rare health problems.
For this reason, both my group and I support this directive, because it represents an important step on the part of Parliament; one that will have a beneficial effect on the lives of the people of Europe.
I supported Mrs Grossetête's recommendation because this proposal for a directive will benefit European citizens.
The new regulations on medical treatment stipulate, in fact, that European citizens may be reimbursed for medical treatment received in another Member State, providing the treatment and costs would normally be covered in their own country.
This result will benefit patients and significantly cut waiting lists, which are sometimes excessively long.
Our society is increasingly mobile, and I think that, now more than ever, it is important to facilitate mobility among European Union citizens, including in a vitally important area such as healthcare.
It acts as confirmation that Europe is in the process of construction, and that our priority is to improve and promote cooperation between the EU Member States in the field of health protection.
The submitted document goes back to a debate that took place in the European Parliament in the previous parliamentary term.
Last but not least, I consider it positive that the amendment stresses the responsibility of Member States for providing safe, high quality, effective and accessible care on their territory.
I also consider it important to define the conditions under which a Member State may refuse to grant prior consent.
The adoption of this draft directive will finally allow patient mobility, an element intrinsic to citizen mobility, to be added to a legal text.
I should like to congratulate our rapporteur on having reached an agreement with the Council on this important text, the adoption of which has been held up for too long.
I very much hope that the transposition by our Member States of this legislation will enable European citizens, in the long term, to gain genuine access to quality cross-border healthcare.
It only concerns patients and their mobility within the EU, not the free movement of service providers.
In this context, we must also not overlook the fact that the system which should allow the social security systems of EU countries to reimburse one another does not function and that debts of millions of euro have accrued over a number of years.
Although the Member States can, in theory, exclude certain types of treatment if they are concerned that the influx of patients from abroad will put their healthcare systems at risk, in practice, this will not be so simple.
I have voted against this draft resolution in order to prevent social security costs from rocketing.
I voted for the report presented by Mrs Grossetête because providing access to cross-border healthcare is a definite achievement benefiting European citizens.
This is why we must provide them with the opportunity to seek this care anywhere within the European Union, as well as the opportunity to have the cost of this treatment reimbursed.
in writing. - (PL) On 19 January 2011, the European Parliament adopted a directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, which is aimed at simplifying the rules governing treatment abroad.
I am pleased to note that the European Parliament, as colegislator, played a key role in formulating clear provisions that benefit patients, inter alia, with regard to the reimbursement of the costs of medical care in other countries.
Provisions concerning cross-border healthcare are all the more important as they affect every citizen of the European Union.
The new directive guarantees the mutual recognition of prescriptions and easier access to information on treatment abroad, as well as increasing the scope of treatment for individuals suffering from rare diseases and providing more opportunity for disabled people to obtain higher rates of reimbursement of the costs of medical care.
The European Parliament is also to play a role in establishing national contact points in each Member State, which will provide information on all aspects of treatment abroad.
I voted in favour of the recommendation with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare because I believe it is fundamental to guarantee adequate healthcare meeting high quality and patient safety standards throughout the European Union.
Patients will then be able to apply to be reimbursed for the cost of their treatment, which will be based on the level of costs that would have been assumed for the same treatment in their Member State of affiliation.
They will also be protected, treated and reimbursed for all cases of rare diseases, the treatment of which will benefit as a result of cooperation between Member States in research.
This directive is another example of Europe being put at the service of Europeans, while promoting solidarity between its peoples and creating benefits for patients, especially those who suffer from rare or chronic diseases and could benefit from having access to centres of excellence in the area of the illness from which they suffer.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
The directive will enable all patients to benefit from rights already recognised by the European Court of Justice, while leaving social security systems fully within the competence of the Member States, since it deals with patients and their mobility inside the European Union and not the free movement of service providers.
I am in favour of overhauling the current unsatisfactory situation with regard to healthcare, which is marked by the split between case-law and the national systems.
I would point out that this House took that same position at first and second reading, by codifying the Court's case-law on cross-border treatment (European citizens have the right to be treated in another country as if it were their own) and sharing the Council's desire to combat medical tourism.
The proposal includes a specific safeguard clause and a prior authorisation system that is flexible for patients but, at the same time, allows for possible exceptional costs to be flagged up.
The aim, therefore, is to strengthen patients' rights by ensuring the provision of information and cooperation between Member States.
The directive stipulates the following principles: patients will be able to receive the non-hospital healthcare to which they are entitled in their own Member State in another Member State without prior approval and have their treatment costs reimbursed up to the ceiling established by their own healthcare system.
in writing. - The legislation adopted today is an important step forward for patients' rights in the EU.
The Greens believe the final compromise adopted today strikes the right balance between guaranteeing patients' rights to cross-border healthcare and safeguarding the provision of quality health services at national level.
Patients will have the right to get hospital treatment in other Member States and be reimbursed as they would for receiving the treatment at home.
However, this right should not be at the expense of the viability of national health systems.
The Greens believe the final compromise allows Member States to establish a reasonable system of prior authorisation for the reimbursement of treatment costs, with MEPs succeeding in limiting the list of reasons for which a patient can be refused cross-border treatment.
The directive on cross-border healthcare that is due to be put to the vote today is a revolution, and I welcome that.
The European Union's healthcare remit is a very sensitive issue, and it is only right that each Member State should establish its own system of social protection and health insurance according to its own particular culture.
However, why build Europe and guarantee freedom of movement if this is not accompanied by the opportunity to access healthcare throughout the European Union?
in writing. - I voted today to support improved legal clarity and patient mobility in cases where people need to travel abroad to receive healthcare.
Ideally, no patient should have to leave their home country to get medical treatment, but in those cases where it is necessary, they should be able to do so knowing what they are entitled to in terms of treatment and reimbursement.
It is also important that Member States' health services know their obligations, and that they retain the right to choose, manage and provide their own healthcare services as they see fit.
in writing. - I am in favour of this report as it deals with some of the current problems which have gone unaddressed by governments.
The implication of the directive on patients' rights is to enhance those already allowed; in particular, those patients who cannot get adequate treatment within the UK may now travel elsewhere within the EU under provisions which already exist.
The Cross-border Healthcare Directive - which I support - confers on patients unambiguous rights to seek medical treatment abroad and receive reimbursement according to the rates applicable in their own countries.
This provides greater legal certainty to patients in frontier areas, people who are visiting another country, patients with rare diseases and patients facing long waiting times.
That will be a requirement in the case of hospitalisation or very expensive or high-risk treatments.
Reimbursement may also be refused in certain, very limited circumstances (for example, if equivalent treatment is also available in the patient's own country) and Member States will be entitled to intervene if there is any evidence of over consumption.
The directive therefore preserves the balance between patients' right to quality healthcare and Member States' right to finance their own social security and organise their own healthcare.
Furthermore, I hope that the desire of patients to seek treatment elsewhere is not going to put any unnecessary pressure on high quality services which are the preferred choice of the vast majority of patients in the country where they are offered.
That is why I voted in favour of the report on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
This report will allow all European citizens to obtain information on cross-border healthcare and to learn about their rights in this area via new contact points which will be set up in each Member State.
The adoption of this text is the starting point for a genuine Europe of health which will benefit 500 million citizens.
The free movement of people and services draws particular attention to the healthcare that the nationals of a Member State can receive in another Member State.
The Court of Justice has recognised the rights of patients, specifically in terms of access to healthcare, ensuring that such healthcare is high quality and safe, and that patients should be reimbursed.
The demand for greater legal certainty in this area implies a commitment from the Member States to cooperate with one another, particularly by recognising medical prescriptions issued in other Member States and ensuring a quality service in their own territory.
I voted in favour of the report by my colleague from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mrs Grossetête, as I believe that the affirmation of the right of patients to cross-border healthcare is relevant.
I am pleased to note that the directive gives patients the right to choose the place where healthcare will be provided, thereby strengthening the common market, which is the main subject of my work in the European Parliament.
This also means that it introduces adaptations which take account of citizens' freedom to travel and work in any EU Member State.
This directive, which could be called a Schengen for health, covers such issues as the mutual recognition of prescriptions, an end to discrimination against patients on the grounds of country of origin and the removal of the need for additional insurance abroad.
The directive tackles this problem by ensuring that the costs of treatment are reimbursed to the level guaranteed in the country of origin, or, if the treatment or procedure cost less than this sum, that the actual costs incurred are reimbursed.
The solutions introduced will help to improve the situation of patients in the European Union and will strengthen the common market, and so I voted in favour of adoption of the directive.
I was pleased to be able to vote in favour of the report, which, following the agreement with the Council during the second reading, will bring significant improvements in the free movement of patients within the European Union.
The result is that the healthcare sector is gradually being transformed from a patchwork of individual services into a single entity.
It is very important for our citizens to have the opportunity to obtain necessary and high quality healthcare services whether they are at home or abroad.
I am pleased that this report also talks about patient mobility in the EU.
Lithuanians living and working abroad must be guaranteed the opportunity to obtain treatment if necessary, without paying absurd amounts of money or waiting for months in uncertainty.
I support the rapporteur's proposal that every Member State should maintain national contact points to inform patients about the availability of healthcare and administrative procedures.
We must strive to ensure that cross-border healthcare services or 'medical tourism' (as the rapporteur observes in this case) do not weaken our national healthcare systems.
in writing. - Health service structures vary greatly across the EU, and I support this directive that outlines a coherent approach to funding cross-border healthcare.
Although cross-border healthcare affects only a small percentage of EU citizens, clarifying the existing rights of these patients in this single piece of legislation will ensure that citizens wishing to travel to another Member State for medical treatment are financially protected.
It is important that patients such as those living near national borders, as well as residents of smaller Member States who suffer from rare diseases, are provided with financial support when seeking medical care elsewhere in the EU.
The agreement will allow patients to be reimbursed for treatment they receive, up to the amount anticipated by their own national health system for similar treatment.
This directive on cross-border health will also ensure that Member States establish contact points to provide sufficient information to citizens wishing to travel abroad for treatment.
On 19 January, the European Parliament adopted European legislation on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
However, that is not the main objective of this text, which aims, first and foremost, to strengthen the internal market rather than promote universal access to healthcare.
The text states that travelling abroad to receive treatment could, in particular, benefit patients who are on long waiting lists or those who are unable to find specialised healthcare.
The first right of patients is be treated promptly and appropriately, without any obstacles, in the place in which they reside.
Instead of supporting public healthcare systems to guarantee equal access to quality healthcare, patients are invited to choose their treatment throughout Europe just like any good put into free circulation within the European Union.
It needs to be stressed that these voluntary agreements on trade in timber cannot undermine the EU's overall objective of combating climate change and must guarantee sustainable use of forests.
I hope that these voluntary agreements will help, rather than hinder, the idea of jointly stopping the trade in illegally harvested timber and contributing to efforts to stop deforestation and forest degradation, related carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
I therefore support calls for the Commission to ensure that EU policy is consistent and to pay the utmost attention to ensuring that VPAs do not encourage the expansion of industrial logging activities into intact forest landscapes, and to work with all governments signing up to VPAs in the future to monitor and take steps to eliminate the negative effects, both direct and indirect, of commercial logging on wildlife.
I welcome the Voluntary Partnership Agreements (VPAs) because of what they represent in terms of combating the trade in illegally logged timber in the EU.
I would stress their importance in combating deforestation and the degradation of forests, as well as the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity at global level.
I call on the Commission to ensure that EU policy is coherent, with a view to making an effective contribution to the international commitments of all the parties involved in the VPAs.
The Voluntary Partnership Agreements that Parliament has just adopted will help combat the trade in illegally harvested timber by improving the traceability of timber harvested in the Republic of Congo and in Cameroon thanks to independent audit procedures and good forest governance policies.
The European Commission must conduct a consistent trade policy and must ensure that trade agreements do not lead to large-scale deforestation so as to satisfy the demands for free trade in timber or biofuel production.
That is why Parliament insists that the European Commission present a regular report on the implementation of these agreements.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on Forest Law Enforcement Governance and Trade Voluntary Partnership Agreements (VPAs), since negotiating these VPAs will allows us to define good practice for future negotiations with countries supplying wood, with a view to the eradication of illegal logging, and to the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources at global level.
Illegal logging is nothing short of the pillaging of the natural resources of countries that supply wood, normally developing countries, and it constitutes a clear attack on biodiversity and the quality of people's lives and their future prospects.
I welcome Europe's concern for the protection of other countries' natural resources, but I must stress that despite the regulatory framework under the agreements, any victory in combating the trade in illegal timber greatly depends on the governments and institutions of the timber-producing countries.
This model is therefore also a call for such countries' EU counterparts to take responsibility so as to understand the need to protect the interests of their future generations, and act in everyone's interests by resisting the appeal of instant profit.
I therefore welcome the signing of the Voluntary Partnership Agreements with Cameroon and the Republic of Congo with the aim of improving forest governance and reforming existing legislation where necessary so as to ensure that activities in the forestry sector are transparent, respect indigenous peoples' rights, and do not contribute to adverse environmental impacts.
These agreements are crucial to eradicating illegal logging, thereby bringing an end to deforestation and the degradation of forests, and to the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity at global level.
To this end, I would stress the importance of calling on the Commission to regularly produce and present to Parliament a progress report on the implementation of the various provisions of all current and future agreements.
This resolution rightly states that the large-scale industrial exploitation of tropical forests is unsustainable, as it leads to the degradation and destruction of ecosystems that are of great importance, both from a functional point of view and in terms of the natural assets that they protect.
However, it still falls short of what is needed to tackle the causes of the problem of illegal or unsustainable logging.
In particular, it is important to mention that this problem cannot be separated from the enormous weaknesses in the economies of these countries and the significant levels of poverty amongst their peoples, and that, at times, this activity is the only source of income for many families.
This inevitably leads to the conclusion, included in our proposed amendment, which was unfortunately rejected, that it is only possible to put a stop to illegal or unsustainable logging if the terrible social and economic situation in these countries is addressed, reversing an economic model based on heavy dependence on exploiting and exporting a select number of raw materials to industrialised countries, which fosters neo-colonial relationships of dependence, and encourages the plundering of resources from developing countries and their subjugation.
Once again, I wish to use the forum of the European Parliament to remind everyone of the significance of forests for the climate, water management, agriculture and the culture of the country or region in question, particularly in rural areas.
The market value of goods made from timber is also considerable.
We must therefore be absolutely sure that timber from Cameroon, the Republic of Congo or any other third country has been obtained, transported and placed on the market legally, respecting the needs of local communities and forest management legislation.
Entering into a partnership with these countries will result in improved forest management and greater credibility and competitiveness for exporting countries in the international arena.
in writing. - I welcome this resolution which accompanies the consent procedures for the Voluntary Partnership Agreements on forest law and the trade in timber with Cameroon and the Congo.
In the fight against the pillaging of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is absolutely crucial.
The implementation of bilateral Voluntary Partnership Agreements to combat the illegal exploitation of forests is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a mechanism for punishing all ecological crimes.
These agreements, which are still very rough and ready, nonetheless deserve to be encouraged and, most especially, improved.
Logging in African countries is often carried out illegally, which impacts very heavily on the protection of producer countries' natural resources, as well as being an attack on biodiversity, and on the quality of people's lives and their future prospects.
With regard to the environmental damage caused by activities in the forestry sector, it is important not to forget the damage caused by transport.
Although we cannot expect miracles from the agreement, it is a step in the right direction, which is why I have voted in favour of this report.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on the Voluntary Partnership Agreements (VPAs) on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber and derived products to the European Union.
I voted in favour because I believe that the negotiation of these VPAs enables us to obtain guidelines on best practices that could serve as a precedent for the negotiations under way for other VPAs with timber-producing countries.
In this context, I welcome the EU's acceptance of its share of the responsibility for eradicating illegal logging, as well as the related trade, and for strengthening efforts connected with the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources globally.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on Voluntary Partnership Agreements with Cameroon and the Republic of Congo.
I would stress the need, when negotiating future agreements of this type, to provide for measures that secure the objectives of the eradication of illegal logging, the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources, and respect for the rights of the local populations.
in writing. - After a thorough scrutiny together with several NGOs, we have decided to support the signature of the two VPAs.
However, we demanded in our explanatory statement that the Commission explains some details more in depth.
Thus, to raise some additional concerns, an oral question with debate has been tabled, with the support of all political groups, underlining the need for the Commission to make sure some criteria are guaranteed, not only during the signature phase, but also during the most crucial implementation phase of the agreements.
For example, we ask the Commission to present, within six months of the entry into force of any VPA, a report on the measures undertaken to ensure that the dialogue between the stakeholders and civil society, including the local and indigenous population, continues and is maintained during the implementation phase.
Voluntary partnership agreements on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber and derived products to the European Union (FLEGT) represent the European model, currently at the draft stage, for combating the illegal international trade in timber.
Central to the approved text is the idea of jointly stopping the trade in illegally harvested timber and products made from such timber and contributing to efforts to stop deforestation and forest degradation, related carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
Under the framework of FLEGT, tropical timber exporting countries have begun drawing up Voluntary Partnership Agreements (VPAs) with the EU, in order to guarantee the traceability and legality of timber.
I can only welcome the fact that the Commission has concluded agreements with Cameroon and the Republic of Congo.
These agreements form a good basis for future VPAs: for example, with certain Asian countries and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The overexploitation of forests threatens not just the local population but also the fauna and flora, and biodiversity.
I also believe that this agreement is of the utmost importance, as this country is the main African exporter of timber to Europe, and there are serious problems at several levels of governance, such as environmental degradation and corruption.
It is also necessary to ensure that international commitments made by the EU and Cameroon are fulfilled in terms of the environment, of the adoption of civil-society oversight, and of greater involvement from local and indigenous communities, ensuring that the latter can enjoy their fundamental rights.
However, the industry is beset by serious problems of governance, leading to environmental degradation, inequalities, impoverishment and corruption.
Up to now, surveys by NGOs have shown that 20% of the Congolese timber imported onto the European market is of illegal origin, whether it is for production, sale, processing or export.
This Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Cameroon is a good example of how, by buying responsibly, we can have a positive influence on the quality of the environment in third countries or the world in general, reduce pollution and combat climate change, poverty and corruption.
I believe that the principle of responsible buying can significantly contribute towards reducing the volume of unfair and unlawful trade and contribute to safeguarding forests and biodiversity.
I welcome the commitments made between the EU and the Republic of Cameroon with the aim of improving forest governance and reforming existing legislation where necessary, so as to ensure that activities in the forestry sector are transparent, respect indigenous peoples' rights, and do not contribute to adverse environmental impacts.
The forest environment is a shared piece of world heritage and must be protected, preserved and, if possible, restored, with the ultimate goals of maintaining global biodiversity and the functions of ecosystems, and of protecting the climate.
I voted for the conclusion of a Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Cameroon on forest law enforcement as it will provide a legal framework for the lawful management of the exploitation of timber in Cameroon and of its export to the EU.
The aim of this is to eliminate the corruption which the illegal timber trade stems from and to develop a set of good governance practices in this area.
The involvement of members of civil society in the conclusion of the agreement is a positive step and must continue in order to ensure external control over the progress of the process for eliminating fraud and developing sustainable trade.
I voted in favour of the recommendation on the Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Cameroon as it sets out political and legislative reforms which will allow Cameroon's timber sector to promote good governance and transparency, with a view to combating fraud and the trade in illegal timber.
The conclusion of a Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Cameroon on the implementation of legislation, governance and trade in the forestry sector with regard to timber products imported by the EU's Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade (FLEGT) is of the utmost importance given the negative impact that the trade in illegal timber necessarily entails.
I hope that binding Cameroon to the FLEGT will effectively reduce the resources available to traffickers and thus establish an effective and transparent system for checking whether timber is legal.
I therefore welcome the signing of the Voluntary Partnership Agreements with Cameroon with the aim of improving forest governance and reforming existing legislation where necessary so as to ensure that activities in the forestry sector are transparent, respect indigenous peoples' rights, and do not contribute to adverse environmental impacts.
These agreements are crucial to eradicating illegal logging, thereby bringing an end to deforestation and the degradation of forests, and to the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity at global level.
To this end, I would stress the importance of calling on the Commission to regularly produce and present to Parliament a progress report on the implementation of the various provisions of all current and future agreements.
While the objectives set out in this agreement, aimed at the traceability and certification of timber products originating in the Republic of Cameroon are apparently praiseworthy, they do not respond to the extent that we believe is necessary to the problem of forest destruction, and with it the threat to the integrity of resources of immense value from an ecological and conservation point of view, and which are vital to the existence and way of life of local communities and indigenous peoples.
In particular, the agreement does not preclude the possibility that large-scale industrial logging may increase forest degradation and deforestation, including of virgin forest with high levels of biodiversity.
The rapporteur admits that the agreement will facilitate the importing of timber originating in Cameroon to the EU and that this may result in conflicts with the EU's objective of combating climate change.
The lack of targeted funding is also acknowledged, as is the lack of technical support and human resources necessary to implement the agreement.
The corruption and illegality afflicting trade in Cameroon really must be tackled through the development of a system to check legality and independent audits of the whole system.
Although doubts remain as to the actual effectiveness of this agreement, I believe it is right to support Mr Jadot's recommendation.
In my opinion, we must put an end to the illegal trade in timber and corruption, and establish an effective, transparent system for monitoring the legality of timber and derived products.
The Cameroon-EU Voluntary Partnership Agreement, which was concluded in accordance with WTO rules, provides for a series of political and regulatory reforms which will enable Cameroon's timber industry to establish good governance and greater transparency.
The VPA establishes an innovative procedure for combating fraud and illegal practices in the timber trade, including a definition of what constitutes legal trade in timber, a system to check legality and independent audits of the whole system designed to achieve more sustainable trade in timber.
It must be stressed that these voluntary agreements on trade in timber must not run counter to the EU's overall objective in terms of combating climate change and must guarantee sustainable forest use, stop deforestation and forest degradation, and related carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
The draft resolution in question concerns the important partnership agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Cameroon.
The main aim of this partnership is to provide a legislative framework within which to ensure the traceability of timber, put in place procedures to certify the quantities of timber exported from Cameroon to European countries, and check that the trade complies with legal and, above all, environmental requirements.
In the light of this fact, we must consider the need to adopt monitoring systems and procedures in this area of the market in order to avoid market activities being carried out using illegal procedures.
I decided to support this recommendation because I am convinced of the need to develop agreements with countries outside Europe.
In the fight against the pillaging of biodiversity, forest destruction is an absolutely crucial issue.
It is primarily the result of the production-driven rationale of modern-day globalisation and is therefore still perfectly legal.
The implementation of the bilateral EU/Cameroon Voluntary Partnership Agreement to combat the illegal exploitation of forests is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a mechanism for punishing all ecological crimes.
The independence of decisions concerning the granting and verification of export licences should be guaranteed by public services, and the promotion of the timber trade as well as the development of forest industries should be limited to what is ecologically sustainable.
Furthermore, serious reservations should be expressed concerning the reliability of the control system given the dereliction of duty on the part of the authorities in Cameroon.
Logging in African countries is often carried out illegally, which impacts very heavily on the protection of producer countries' natural resources, as well as being an attack on biodiversity, on the quality of people's lives and on their future prospects.
I am hopeful that the agreement negotiated with Cameroon will effectively combat illegal logging in the country, thus contributing to improving conditions for populations living off income from this economic sector, and that it will also contribute to improving biodiversity and protecting natural resources in Cameroon.
Corruption is a fact of life in Cameroon.
Although we cannot expect miracles from the agreement, it is a step in the right direction, which is why I have voted in favour of this report.
Experts estimate that, in 10 to 15 years, the most ecologically important tree species in the Congo Basin will have disappeared if the logging continues in the same way as it has been done up to now - aimed at maximum yield.
Above all, European companies must take some responsibility, because around 80% of the yield is shipped to Europe.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report, as it is moving in the right direction.
I am voting for the signing of a Voluntary Partnership Agreement (VPA) between the European Union and the Republic of Cameroon, the goals of which are strengthening forest governance, promoting Cameroon's timber products, and making the country more competitive on the international market.
The aims of the Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Cameroon (the EU-Cameroon VPA, concluded on 6 May 2010) are to provide a legislative framework within which to detect and ensure the traceability of timber, to put in place government and independent verification procedures to certify that all timber exports from Cameroon to European markets have followed legal channels, and to reinforce the application of forestry regulations and governance.
The EU-Cameroon VPA provides for a series of political and regulatory reforms and will come into effect as soon as the promised legislative changes have been implemented and the system to verify legality put in place.
For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the proposal allowing Parliament to follow the Council's position.
The Cameroon-EU Voluntary Partnership Agreement provides for a series of political and legislative reforms which will enable Cameroon's timber sector to institute good governance practices and greater transparency.
I therefore voted for the signing of this agreement, and hope that the commitments made and the objectives of Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade are fully adhered to when it is being implemented.
I believe that it is very important for Cameroon, the largest exporter of hardwood from Africa to Europe, to apply strict regulations during its activities in this area.
An effective and transparent monitoring system needs to be established.
This agreement is crucial, as this country exports timber and derived products worth more than EUR 250 million every year, more than half of which is destined for the EU.
I welcome the commitments made in the Voluntary Partnership Agreement (VPA) between the EU and the Republic of Congo with the goal of improving forest governance and reforming existing legislation in this area.
It is necessary to ensure that activities in the forestry sector are transparent, respect peoples' rights, and do not contribute to adverse environmental impacts.
I would stress the role of independent national civil society organisations and of independent external observers in monitoring the proper implementation of VPAs by all parties involved.
I voted in favour of the recommendation on the Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Congo as it sets out political and legislative reforms which will allow Congo's timber sector to promote good governance and transparency, with a view to combating fraud and the trade in illegal timber.
The trade in illegal timber is a problem which seriously affects the producing countries, one of which is the Republic of Congo, and it jeopardises ecosystems, ways of life and the very economies of developing countries.
The European Union has been struggling to combat illegal logging, while seeking to conserve forest resources and promote their sustainable use globally.
I therefore welcome the signing of the Voluntary Partnership Agreement with the Republic of Congo with the aim of improving forest governance and reforming existing legislation where necessary so as to ensure that activities in the forestry sector are transparent, respect indigenous peoples' rights, and do not contribute to adverse environmental impacts.
The concerns expressed by the rapporteur himself are enough to prove the weakness of the agreement, justifying our abstention.
Every year, the Congo exports over EUR 250 million worth of timber and derived products, half of which go to the European Union.
Despite the fact that, as in the case of Cameroon, there are still doubts as to the actual effectiveness of the agreement we are voting on, I have decided to support it, as it represents a first step towards fighting fraud and illegality in the timber trade.
I agreed with this document, because the objective of the Congo-European Union Voluntary Partnership Agreement is to provide a legislative framework within which to detect and ensure the traceability of timber, and put in place government and independent verification procedures to certify that all timber exports from the Congo to European markets have been procured, felled, transported and exported legally.
In my opinion, we must put an end to the illegal trade in timber and corruption, and establish an effective, transparent system for monitoring the legality of timber and derived products.
The successive wars between 1993 and 1999 did nothing to improve the situation, and opened the floodgates to the scourge of corruption.
It must be stressed that these voluntary agreements on trade in timber must not run counter to the EU's overall objective in terms of combating climate change and must guarantee sustainable forest use, stop deforestation and forest degradation, and related carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
As we are well aware, much of the timber used in the European Union comes from the Republic of Congo.
Surveys by NGOs working in the area have shown that at least 20% of Congolese timber is of illegal origin.
The aim of this recommendation on the draft decision on forest law enforcement is to ensure that in the Congo, too, the European Union can do what has already been requested for Cameroon, which is to take steps to ensure that the timber market does not suffer any illegal and, hence, unacceptable, interference.
This can be achieved, as the recommendation proposes, through the adoption of measures which will allow the EU to ensure that the political reforms launched through the partnership agreements actually contribute to an economy which is clean, both legally and environmentally, in order to safeguard the country from criminal activities and the misuse of its resources.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The Congo exports more than EUR 250 million of timber and derived products, half of which go to the European Union.
Up to now, surveys by NGOs have shown that 20% of the Congolese timber imported to the European market is of illegal origin, whether it is for production, sale, processing or export.
The successive wars between 1993 and 1999 did nothing to improve the situation, and opened the floodgates to the scourge of corruption.
There was therefore an urgent need to establish procedures to combat illegal trade in timber by more effectively analysing and overseeing the often complex trading patterns.
This Voluntary Partnership Agreement should help tackle corruption and significantly reduce the trade in illegal timber.
In the fight against the pillaging of biodiversity, destruction of the forest is an absolutely crucial issue.
It is primarily the result of the production-driven rationale of modern-day globalisation and is therefore still perfectly legal.
The implementation of the bilateral EU/Congo Voluntary Partnership Agreement to combat the illegal exploitation of forests is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a mechanism for punishing all ecological crimes.
Logging in African countries is often carried out illegally, which impacts very heavily on the protection of producer countries' natural resources, as well as being an attack on biodiversity, and on the quality of people's lives and their future prospects.
Although we cannot expect miracles from the agreement, it is a step in the right direction, which is why I have voted in favour of this report.
I also voted for the Voluntary Partnership Agreement (VPA) between the European Union and the Republic of Congo on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber and derived products to the EU.
I welcome the goal of creating a legislative framework that makes it possible, inter alia, to identify timber products and ensure their traceability; to establish independent and governmental verification procedures certifying that all timber products exported by the Republic of Congo to European markets have been procured, felled, transported and exported legally, with the aim of establishing the foundations of legal management and exploitation in the Congo's timber sector; and to strengthen forest law enforcement and governance.
Surveys by non-governmental organisations have shown that 20% of the Congolese timber imported onto the European market is of illegal origin, at whatever stage in the process.
The EU-Congo VPA provides for a series of political and regulatory reforms which will enable the Congo's timber industry to establish good governance practices and greater transparency.
It is important to ensure that the political and legislative reforms undertaken contribute to poverty reduction and a tangible improvement in people's living conditions.
The Congo-EU Voluntary Partnership Agreement provides for a series of political and legislative reforms which will enable the Republic of Congo's timber sector to institute good governance practices and greater transparency.
It is important to guarantee that any timber and derived products originating in the Republic of Congo that enter European markets do so completely legally, as well as that any reforms implemented ensure respect for the rights of local and indigenous communities, contribute to improving populations' living conditions and to environmental conservation, and have a real impact at the level of combating corruption and strengthening the capacities of local civil society.
I am in favour of this resolution because I believe we need to try to solve the serious problem of deforestation and degradation.
The Commission and the Council must step up their efforts to ensure human rights are respected in the Republic of Congo.
It is also vital to update legal texts designed to improve social justice and respect for the rights of local and indigenous communities.
The consent of the European Parliament to the Voluntary Partnership Agreements between the European Union and the Republic of Cameroon and the Republic of Congo has resulted in an important step being taken in the fight against illegal logging and the illegal trade in timber.
I am definitely in favour of these two agreements.
in writing. - As a part of FLEGT (Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade), exporter countries of tropical hardwood have begun to sign Voluntary Partnership Agreements (VPAs) with the EU to ensure the traceability and legality of timber and verification procedures.
The objective of the two FLEGT VPAs with the Republic of Congo and Cameroon is to provide a legislative framework which aims to: (i) detect and ensure the traceability of timber, (ii) put in place independent verification procedures to certify all timber exports from the partner country to the European market, in order to provide a basis for the legal management and exploitation of the Congolese and Cameroonian forests, and (iii) reinforce the application of forestry regulations and governance.
More VPAs are to come in the near future, especially with some Asian countries and also with the Democratic Republic of Congo.
I voted in favour of these resolutions because I believe it is important to preserve natural forests, the exploitation of which may lead to forest degradation and deforestation as well as destruction of the global environment.
Reform of the legal framework in the forestry sector is therefore necessary in order to have a Voluntary Partnership Agreement that is in keeping with the objectives of the action plan for forest law enforcement, governance and trade (FLEGT) and to ensure that social and environmental criteria are met.
Legal texts designed to improve social justice must be updated so as to respect the rights of local and indigenous communities, thus guaranteeing for these groups the principles of direct participation in the drafting of the new regulatory texts and in the implementation phase of the transparency agreement.
The Commission must ensure that the rights of local communities, who are often the first victims of climatic and environmental degradation, are respected.
The European Parliament has voted for several agreements to combat the illegal trade in timber between the European Union and the Congo and the European Union and Cameroon.
These international agreements are designed to ensure the traceability of timber exported to the EU, in order to fight against deforestation and to preserve biodiversity, as well as to safeguard the rights of indigenous peoples.
The rapporteur, Mr Jadot, of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has included a number of amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left.
I have voted in favour of the EU signing a Voluntary Partnership Agreement with the Republic of Cameroon and with the Republic of Congo.
These new partnership agreements will promote the responsible management of the forestry sector in these two countries, which the EU has indirect responsibility for, as a result of its imports of timber.
Nonetheless, in line with my refusal to accept the agreement, I voted against the resolution, which does not seem to me to highlight sufficiently the problems raised by the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products, especially tuna.
I shall follow the negotiations on the final partnership agreement between the EU and the Pacific States, and I shall ensure that the agreement does not contain any derogations from the rules of origin for processed fishery products from Papua New Guinea.
I welcome the efforts made towards deepening trade relations between the Pacific and the EU, with the aim of supporting regional integration and promoting the progressive integration of the economies of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) states into the global economy.
The EU has an important role in fostering the sustainable social and economic development of the ACP countries and in contributing to the general efforts to eradicate poverty in those countries.
Trade relations between this region and the EU must, therefore, encourage and increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while simultaneously contributing to economic diversification and poverty reduction.
With regard to Amendment 6, paragraph 23(3), we believe that it should always be up to the individual Member State to decide whether a visa is to be issued to a third-country national.
The current financial and economic crisis highlights that trade policy is more important than ever to the developing countries.
I voted for this resolution because I believe that the partnership agreement will support regional integration and promote the progressive integration of the economies of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States into the global economy, while also encouraging the sustainable social and economic development of these countries, thereby contributing to the eradication of poverty.
Although only Papua New Guinea and the Republic of the Fiji Islands have signed the interim partnership agreement with the EU, I believe that this merits our support because it allows European markets to be open to local products and, on the other hand, the gradual opening of those countries' markets to European products.
I hope that trade relations between the Pacific States and the EU will grow and become stronger, while respecting different areas' specificities and bearing in mind the particular needs of those who have least.
The comprehensive agreement that may be concluded should not overlook the key issues listed in the resolution: 1) negotiations on intellectual property rights; 2) transparency of public procurement; and 3) the granting of working visas.
in writing. - My resolution, which accompanies the granting of consent to the EU-Pacific States Interim Partnership Agreement, makes it clear that Parliament, while welcoming this interim EPA covering only Fiji and Papua New Guinea, believes that any move to a full EPA must cover all 14 Pacific island states.
The goal of Economic Partnership Agreements between the EU and Pacific States must be to increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while also promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction.
Although currently only Papua New Guinea and the Republic of the Fiji Islands have signed the agreement, this is an important step towards the future economic development of this region, which is made up of 14 states and is crucial to the development of international trade.
The widely held belief that the promotion of trade relations between this region and the EU should encourage and increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while also promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction, is a particularly important feature of this European Parliament resolution on the Interim Partnership Agreement between the EC and the Pacific States.
Regional integration and cooperation are essential to the social and economic development of the Pacific States.
This agreement reflects the commitment of the European Union to this region of the world and sends a strong political signal to the States in the region.
I am pleased about that.
The political resolution that accompanies this decision to approve the agreement provides an opportunity to point out our demands.
We want to establish a balanced and fair relationship with the Pacific States; one which allows for the development of these island States while protecting the interests of our own citizens.
Indeed, in order to ensure that this derogation, which should allow for the creation of jobs and wealth, is of genuine benefit to local populations and does not harm the European fishery product processing and canning industries, it was vital to provide for an assessment of its impact as soon as possible and to allow for its suspension, where necessary.
Guarantees exist to ensure that the agreement is fair and that measures will be taken, if necessary, to protect our interests.
The Interim Partnership Agreement between Papua New Guinea, the Republic of the Fiji Islands and the European Community was initialled on 14 December 2007.
These were the only countries of the Pacific Region to enter into the agreement as they were the most active in maintaining trade relations with the European Union, and mainly because they were interested in protecting their sugar and tuna industries.
The agreement should also guarantee these countries further gains, thanks to a new regulation on duty- and quota-free access to markets.
The economic partnership agreement provides for an ad hoc committee to be set up subsequently to monitor its implementation and to check its effects on local society and the local economy at regular intervals.
That is why I voted for this resolution and why I supported the amendments tabled by the Greens, which are entirely consistent with our concerns.
I am looking forward to the European Commission supplying us with the impact assessment provided for by the agreement, and I shall be keeping a close eye on the negotiations on the final partnership agreement.
in writing. - I supported this Interim Economic Partnership Agreement with Papua New Guinea and Fiji as it is important to develop strong links with exporting countries in the Pacific Region.
Despite concerns from some Members, I believe that we need to foster closer cooperation with these countries as this allows the EU to monitor catches of tuna and other fish that are canned on Papua New Guinea.
This industry has also created hundreds of jobs for local people in the impoverished country.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that this helps to establish new trade arrangements that are compatible with World Trade Organisation rules with the Republic of the Fiji Islands and Papua New Guinea.
Interim Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) are agreements on the trade of goods that are intended to prevent a breakdown in trade between the countries of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States and Europe.
Although interim agreements may be seen as a first step in the process, in legal terms, they are completely independent international agreements which do not necessarily lead to a full EPA.
Regional integration is crucial in the development of these countries.
It is important that we sign a final agreement with the countries in this region.
However, it is important that we ensure that the poorest countries are not merely used as transit countries for products from other countries which do not qualify for this special access scheme.
The Commission should monitor implementation and take appropriate action whenever its impact studies find serious distortions in the market.
I am in favour of the development of this region but I consider the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products to be unacceptable.
Furthermore, imports of tuna from Papua New Guinea have doubled over the last two years, and we have reason to fear that this trend will become stronger in the future.
Despite the low number of countries that have accepted the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA), this demonstrates Europe's commitment to supporting the development of Pacific countries by using a mechanism that goes beyond mere aid procedures and seeks to mobilise local economies, which hope to have the effect of creating businesses and jobs, and bringing about the greater movement of people and goods.
Recently, in the last ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, which took place in December 2010, the Council of the ACP countries expressed their concern with the fact that the European Commission is not respecting its objections on matters relating to protecting its economies.
There is also a contradiction between the Commission's much-vaunted flexibility and the inflexible stance that it has taken in the technical negotiations.
In this Interim Economic Partnership Agreement with the Republic of the Fiji Islands and Papua New Guinea, the EU has also been subjected to severe criticism by social and political organisations in the Pacific Region due to the pressures that have been put on these two countries to sign the agreement, under the threat of losing their privileged access to European markets.
Critics have also said that there has been a significant decline in solidarity between the Pacific States since the signing of this agreement, creating feelings of division, which has lead to the break-up of certain regional groups due to the pressures that they felt that they were under to sign the interim agreements.
There is nothing more important than children's health and protecting the rights and welfare of children.
They are the canning factories belonging to these countries, which have set up in Papua New Guinea but which employ foreign nationals in dubious conditions.
In the European Union, imports of tuna from Papua New Guinea increased by 76% between 2008 and 2009; in France alone, they increased by 1 500% over the same period.
That is why I voted against this agreement.
By concluding an agreement with these states, we wish to facilitate the free flow of goods and services, which should bring commercial advantages to both sides.
Let us conclude agreements, let us open up the markets and let us promote competitiveness, but let our actions be guided by common sense and mutual benefit in all instances, in particular, when helping regions such as the Pacific States, which are often hit by natural disasters.
I support the agreement but, at the same time, I am very aware of the possible impact this could have on the European fishing sector and, in this regard, I expect the Commission to carry out the investigation into this impact called for in paragraph 15 of the resolution adopted by Parliament.
The initiative which has been approved today by Parliament has created an agreement that will undoubtedly strengthen trade between the European Union and some of the Pacific States.
In particular, the Interim Partnership Agreement has been concluded with Papua New Guinea and the Republic of the Fiji Islands, which hope to achieve the objective of protecting their sugar and tuna industries.
In my opinion this is a step forward for development and prosperity.
I must also emphasise that the agreement could have major implications for relations with the other Pacific States, including Australia and New Zealand.
These two countries were the only ones in the Pacific Region to enter into the agreement, as the other members of the Pacific regional grouping - because of their low levels of trade in goods with the EU - chose not to sign.
Fiji and Papua New Guinea entered the agreement mainly with the hope of protecting their sugar and tuna industries, which would have suffered greatly under the Generalised System of Preferences.
Trade and development issues are to be dealt with within the wider regional framework.
It includes a rendezvous clause for the 'successful conclusion of the currently ongoing negotiations for a comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA)'.
The goal of Economic Partnership Agreements between the EU and Pacific States must be to increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while also promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction.
Although currently only Papua New Guinea and the Republic of the Fiji Islands have signed the agreement, this is an important step towards the future economic development of this region, which is made up of 14 states and is crucial to the development of international trade.
This is the first step towards the extension of this agreement to other regional countries, and towards giving a significant boost to their economies and to the wellbeing of their populations.
I voted in favour of the interim partnership agreement between the European Community and the Pacific States, because I believe that it is important for Europe to have trade partnership agreements with third countries that are able to export products which European countries have difficulty in accessing.
The development of international trade is logically accompanied by agreements which facilitate trade and make the commercial network increasingly accessible.
Negotiations on the new Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) began in 2002 with the aim of building on and strengthening the regional integration processes in the ACP countries.
I voted for the recommendation on the conclusion of the EU-Pacific States Interim Partnership Agreement for the following reasons.
The Fiji Islands and Papua New Guinea have decided to conclude the agreement mainly in the hope of protecting their sugar and tuna industries.
The interim agreement covers rules of origin in relation to fisheries, textiles and agriculture whilst, however, establishing derogations that could threaten the competitiveness of some EU industries.
I therefore join the rapporteur in calling for a report to be submitted to Parliament on the specific aspects of the Pacific States' fisheries sector for assessment of the real impact that these measures could potentially have on the EU market.
The agreement covers rules of origin in relation to fisheries, textiles and agriculture, leading to investment and employment opportunities.
The European Commission hopes to conclude a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with the Pacific regional group, for which talks are ongoing.
I welcome the European Parliament's decision to approve the interim agreement between the European Community and the Pacific States.
This agreement reflects the commitment of the European Union to this region of the world and sends a strong political signal to the States in the region.
I am pleased about that.
The political resolution that accompanies this decision to approve the agreement provides an opportunity to point out our demands.
We want to establish a balanced and fair relationship with the States of the Pacific; one which allows for the development of these island States while protecting the interests of our own citizens.
While the interim agreement includes specific provisions on the rules of origin for fishery products, it was important to manage this derogation.
Indeed, in order to ensure that this derogation, which should allow for the creation of jobs and wealth, is of genuine benefit to local populations and does not harm the European fishery product processing and canning industries, it was vital to provide for an assessment of its impact as soon as possible and to allow for its suspension, where necessary.
I voted for this report because I believe that promoting trade relations between the Pacific States and the EU could contribute to promoting the region's sustainable social and economic development, to reducing poverty, and to strengthening regional integration and cooperation, in line with the Millennium Development Goals.
in writing. - Greens maintain their long-standing opposition to EPAs with any of the ACP regions, and consequently do not see the added value of the IEPA with two of the Pacific States.
Furthermore, a predictable unfettered increase in traditional exports, concentrated in raw materials such as copper, sugar, copra, fish and palm oil (agro-fuels!) is entirely at odds with sustainable development needs.
Our shadow, José Bové, tabled 11 amendments in that regard.
The EC/Pacific Interim Economic Partnership Agreement grants goods from the Pacific Region preferential conditions of access to the European market.
I am in favour of the development of this region, but I feel that the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products is unacceptable, as it allows for products manufactured in a country from raw materials which were not sourced from that country to be exempted from customs duties.
European Union policy must therefore guarantee and implement children's right to the protection and care necessary for their welfare.
I voted in favour of this resolution, because I feel that there is a need to enhance policy on protecting children's rights.
The number of children abandoned and institutionalised, which is very high in some Member States, is cause for concern.
Furthermore, violations of children's rights, violence against them, child trafficking, enticement into prostitution, illegal work and other unlawful activities, remain a major problem in the European Union.
I agree that it is necessary to assess the functioning of national systems at European level, so that it is possible to clarify matters as regards the protection of children's rights, and take measures, if necessary, that would ensure more effective protection of homeless children and give them opportunities to have a family and be safe.
I voted for this resolution as the severity of the problem of abandoned children has steadily grown in the European Union.
The Commission must inform us as to what measures have been taken or will be taken at EU level to protect minors due to be adopted by European citizens.
I think that adoption must be arranged in line with national legislation and international conventions.
The Commission must explain to us how these procedures will ensure that the child's best interests will always be protected.
I voted in favour of the joint resolution on international adoption, because I strongly believe that European coordination of adoption strategies and tools would not only bring about an improvement in the procedure as such, but would also ensure greater protection for orphans and abandoned children and their right to have a family.
Finally, I believe that improved coordination can ensure greater certainty for adoptees in terms of correct adoption procedures and mutual recognition of documents, thus preventing child trafficking.
The protection of children's rights is one of the European Union's most important objectives.
At present, there are many conventions in force on child protection and parental responsibilities.
The 1967 European Convention on the adoption of minors aims to coordinate the laws of Member States relating to adoption.
All Member States are signatories to the 1993 Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Inter-Country Adoption (the Hague Convention).
Although the area of adoption falls within the remit of the Member States, I believe that there is a need to explore the possibility of coordinating at European level a strategy with measures related to international adoption.
We must aim to improve information services, preparation for inter-country adoption, the processing of applications for international adoption, and post-adoption services, bearing in mind that all international conventions relating to the protection of the rights of the child recognise the right of orphaned or abandoned children to have a family and be protected.
For instance, the EU institutions and Member States must actively combat child trafficking for illegal adoption.
With the support of the European Union, which we were preparing to join, Romania carried out far-reaching amendments to its adoption legislation, in spite of the huge international pressure not to resort to a drastic measure such as abandoning international adoptions.
Any resolution on international adoptions can only have the safety of minors as its objective, regardless of the interests of the states or the adopters.
In addition, irrespective of any resolution or decision, in my personal view, domestic adoptions must take precedence in any legal system, present or future.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament Resolution on international adoption in the European Union, based on Romania's experience in this area.
An analysis really needs to be carried out of all the national adoption systems to see what their strengths and weaknesses are and to recommend the best practices for adoption by Member States.
Proper progress would be made if a situation was reached for coordinating at EU level the policies and strategies for the international adoption instrument, with the aim of improving the assistance provided in areas such as information services, preparation for inter-country adoption, processing of international adoption applications and post-adoption services, because the right of orphans or abandoned children to have a family and be protected must become a reality.
In this context, I advocate the need to consider the possibility of coordinating strategies for an instrument for international adoption and post-adoption services at a European level, bearing in mind that all the international conventions on the protection of children's rights recognise the right of abandoned or orphaned minors to have a family and receive protection.
Human dignity and, in this case, the special care required of minor's best interests, make observance of and respect for international conventions on the matter recommended, along with a study of best practices and the exchange of experience between Member States.
The European Union will be able to monitor these efforts and help to address the scourge of child trafficking, which predominantly affects the poorest countries and the people who are the least well-off.
The European Union has always fought to protect the rights of children and to defend their best interests.
The intention of this resolution is for consideration to be given to the possibility of coordinating at European level strategies concerning the instrument of international adoption, in accordance with international conventions, in order to improve assistance in the areas of information services, preparation for inter-country adoption, the processing of applications for international adoption and post-adoption services, bearing in mind that all international conventions relating to the protection of the rights of the child recognise the right of orphaned or abandoned children to have a family and to be protected.
I voted in favour because I believe that, although the issue of adoption falls under the jurisdiction of the Member States, there is a need for a minimum level of European convergence, provided that children's best interests are always respected.
However, it is not enough to make general statements: it is also necessary to recognise the causes that have led to a situation where children are being exploited under international adoption.
The major causes behind the abandonment of children are poverty, inadequate social welfare systems, the lack of a sufficient social infrastructure network or adequate public services, as well as conflicts and military interventions.
in writing. - To determine the increasing problem of abandoned children, European institutions and Member States should play a more active role in improving the instruments of international adoption by facilitating and coordinating international adoption procedures at European level, without jeopardising in any way the security and safety of the children's rights and by respecting all international conventions protecting the rights of the child.
The Union and the Member States have to ensure stronger scrutiny in cases of international adoption, in order to prevent child exploitation, abuses, abduction and trafficking.
Moreover, Member States should have more transparent rules with regard to international adoption procedures and should also retain a constant exchange of information on the conditions and surroundings of the adopted child in the new environment.
In conclusion, the primary concerns in the international adoption procedures should always be in the best interest of the child, with particular attention to children with special needs, in order to guarantee children's and families' rights.
I voted for this joint resolution, which allows us at one and the same time to defend the right of parents to adopt a child from another Member State, and to ensure the protection of minors at the time they are adopted and after they have been adopted.
Indeed, international adoption should have a framework of specific rules in order to avoid abuses, such as child trafficking for example.
in writing. - Our national legal systems all have their own ways of dealing with adoption and other childcare issues.
However, since issues such as people trafficking and the sexual exploitation of children have such an international dimension, EU-level action may be appropriate.
We must never lose sight of the fact that the best interests of the child are paramount, and accordingly, I voted in favour of this resolution.
I voted in favour of this important resolution on international adoption in the European Union, because the protection of children's rights is one of the European Union's key objectives.
At present, there are many conventions in force on child protection and parental responsibilities.
I believe that there is a need to explore the possibility of coordinating at European level issues related to international adoption, with a view to improving information services, preparation for inter-country adoption, processing of applications for international adoption and post-adoption services.
I would also like to stress that adoption should primarily be encouraged, whenever possible, and in the child's best interest, in the child's country of origin.
in writing. - I welcome this resolution which calls for consideration to be given to the possibility of coordinating at European level strategies concerning the instrument of international adoption, in accordance with international conventions, in order to improve assistance in the areas of information services, preparation for inter-country adoption, the processing of applications for international adoption and post-adoption services, bearing in mind that all international conventions relating to the protection of the rights of the child recognise the right of orphaned or abandoned children to have a family and to be protected.
The number of abandoned children has steadily increased over recent years, and this phenomenon can be observed in all of our Member States.
These children - who are victims of conflicts and social exclusion, and who are exploited by criminal networks and used in all kinds of trafficking - are the victims of a failing international adoption mechanism.
Furthermore, it should be noted that the majority of these children are girls, easy prey for prostitution networks and other forms of modern slavery.
One of the responses that we can bring to this sad situation is to facilitate international adoption procedures.
The adoption of children is an issue that has always been of concern to the EU and must be handled with the utmost care.
Children are the future of any society and must therefore be treated with the greatest dignity.
The EU is therefore obligated to make every effort to confront the scourge of child trafficking, which predominantly affects children in the poorest countries and those who are least well-off.
However, children are still falling victim to human trafficking and exploitation within the European Union, often as a result of unregulated adoption.
I am abstaining, because the resolution does not include sufficient measures to guarantee that children can be protected against exploitation as a result of adoption.
This is why I voted in favour of the resolution, as I believe strongly in the power of adoption as a way of giving a better life to children who will be the world's future.
Therefore, I believe that it is fundamental to implement specific legislation on the subject in order to deal with international differences.
I voted today in favour of the joint resolution on international adoption in the EU, the aim of which is to improve the adoption system between Member States and establish guarantees to ensure that adoption is carried out in the interests of the child, with absolute respect for its fundamental rights.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution on international adoption in the EU.
This initiative is in fulfilment of the Union objective set out in Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon for 'protection of the rights of the child'.
The economic development of the countries of the EU does not prevent there from still being serious failings in terms of children's rights: specifically, the problem of precarious childhood, and, in particular, that of abandoned and institutionalised children, as well as of violence inflicted on them.
It is this context that defines the importance of this initiative, which calls on the Commission to consider the possibility of coordinating at European level strategies concerning the instrument of international adoption.
A strategy is needed that conforms to international conventions in order to improve assistance in the areas of information services, preparation and processing of applications and post-adoption services.
It must give consideration to the protection of children's rights, and recognise the right of orphaned or abandoned children to have a family and to be protected.
Halting international adoptions was one of the conditions for Romania's accession to the European Union.
Romania decided in 2001 to place a moratorium on international adoptions after the European Parliament rapporteur for Romania, Baroness Emma Nicholson, condemned child trafficking activities and criticised the Romanian state for neglecting its children.
I think that priority must be given, as far as possible and in the child's interests, to adoption in the child's country of origin, with possible alternative solutions including finding a foster family, personal or residential care or finding a family through the international adoption procedure, in keeping with the relevant national legislation and international conventions.
At the same time, it is important for an EU-level methodology framework to be devised to carry out the assessment of the adopted children's development in their new families, using regular post-adoption reports compiled by the social services in the country where the adopted children have gone and submitted to the competent authorities in the country from which they were adopted.
This mechanism ought to be implemented by coordinating actions between Member States and the European Commission, in cooperation with the Hague conference, the Council of Europe and child protection organisations which strive to prevent child trafficking for adoption.
Adoption is a particularly sensitive issue which should merit the EU Member States' full attention.
Although there has been considerable progress made following the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Inter-Country Adoption, precarious childhood, violations of the rights of children, violence against them and child trafficking for adoption, prostitution, illegal labour, forced marriage, and begging on the streets or for any other illegal purpose, remain a problem in the EU.
Every effort must therefore be made to protect a child's right to a family life.
In order to achieve this, it is important to consider the possibility of coordinating at European level strategies concerning the instrument of international adoption, in accordance with international conventions, in order to improve assistance in the areas of information services, the preparation and processing of applications, and post-adoption services.
As we are already working on this matter in the JURI and LIBE Committees, there was no need for such a resolution.
A child's right to grow up in a healthy family environment which is beneficial to its harmonious development is the key concept behind this resolution.
I believe that a mechanism urgently needs to be created at EU level which shows the functioning of the different national systems on this issue.
A transparent and effective mechanism monitoring the adoption of children both pre- and post-adoption and the involvement of international organisations does not only promote the rights of children but also allows their harmonious upbringing.
It is crucial to find a legal framework to cover child protection and parental responsibility, eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy from practical procedures, and harmonise the laws of Member States in line with the 1993 Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Inter-Country Adoption and with the Treaty of Lisbon.
The legislator's ultimate aim must, of course, be to guarantee children the right to the protection and care they need for their wellbeing, while trying to avoid forcing them to live in orphanages.
In 2006, for example, 202 foreign families decided to take care of 311 of our fellow citizens - 214 Polish children found Italian parents, 25 found French parents, 22 found American parents, 20 found Dutch parents, 15 found Swedish parents, seven found German parents, six found Swiss parents, one found Belgian parents and one found Canadian parents.
The problem of orphaned children is practically non-existent in Western Europe, hence the high level of interest in the possibility of adopting children from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
I believe that the European Commission should, first and foremost: 1) inform Parliament what measures have been or will be taken at European level in order to prevent international adoption becoming a front for child trafficking; 2) provide an answer to the question of how the Commission intends to prevent children being adopted to fit in with the latest fashion.
The Kosovo issue is very important.
I therefore support the call in the resolution for the Serbian Government to dismantle Serbian parallel structures in Kosovo that undermine the decentralisation process and prevent the full integration of the Serbian community into the Kosovo institutions.
I agree with the opinion presented in the resolution that the participation of Kosovo Serbs in the electoral process is an indispensable element aimed at preventing the Kosovo Serbian community from being marginalised.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution.
The European Union's objective is to ensure long-term stability and sustainable development in the Western Balkans.
As the speed of integration of the countries in this region varies, every country must make maximum effort, carry out the required reforms and take the necessary measures to ensure the security and stability of every country, as well as of the region as a whole.
Serbia is making significant progress in many areas and there has been successful and constructive cooperation with the European Union.
The abolition of EU visas since 2009 shows Serbia's citizens that the EU has a favourable view of the reforms being undertaken in the country.
I should remark that one issue highlighted in the report on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is linked to Serbia's failure to recognise the authorities in Kosovo and to the maintenance of parallel structures.
Serbia will clearly have to follow the same path for joining the EU followed by all Member States.
In this context, I think that Serbia's future lies alongside the countries of the EU and I believe that this country must step up its efforts towards achieving this.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I recognise that Serbia is in a position to become an important player in ensuring security and stability in the Balkans.
I therefore feel that the country should continue towards achieving this goal.
Serbia's route towards it has been particularly difficult since the end of the former Yugoslavia following the collapse of Soviet power.
Its involvement as the aggressor in fratricidal wars, and the brutal impact that they have had on neighbouring countries and on the international community as a whole have had serious consequences for the country and its people.
The secession of Kosovo, which remains a deeply controversial subject, has heightened tensions in the region and continues to have an immense potential to cause instability.
I therefore welcome Serbia's application for membership of the European Union, submitted on 22 December 2009, and the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2010 to ask the Commission to examine Serbia's application.
I would congratulate Serbia on the progress achieved in the reform process.
I would stress that the development of regional cooperation remains a key priority for the EU and is intended as a catalyst for reconciliation, good neighbourliness and enhanced people-to-people contacts in the Western Balkans.
I call on the Serbian Government to continue working closely with the Tribunal, including swift transmission of all requested documents and timely completion of cases transferred back from the ICTY.
This pressure on Serbia is unacceptable, and is all the more complicated given that equivalent measures have not been taken in relation to Kosovo, despite public complaints about the trafficking of human organs by Kosovo's current leaders.
Today, it is clear that the war perpetrated by NATO and the major EU powers, with Germany at their head, was aimed at dismantling Yugoslavia and dividing its territory into countries which could protect the economic interests of big business in the EU.
I did not vote for this resolution on the European integration process of Serbia.
The joint resolution between the European Union and Serbia, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly, is mentioned, but at no time is it spelt out that this cannot be regarded as an official recognition of the independence of Kosovo by Serbia, or by those Member States of the Union that have not recognised it.
in writing. - Serbia's moves towards EU membership are to we welcomed and will hopefully strengthen peace and prosperity in that area.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EC and the Republic of Serbia came into force on 1 February 2010.
With this motion for a resolution, the European Parliament wanted, firstly, to emphasise the importance of Serbia's role within the European Union and, secondly, to approve the social and political improvements that the Serbian Government has introduced in recent years.
While I believe that Serbia's entry into the EU is a considerable step forward for both the EU and the Republic of Serbia, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because I believe that the country will very soon manage to overcome all the limitations which have created such a wide gap between the two for so long.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution which notes Serbia's progress on reform and the Council's recent request to the Commission to prepare the opinion on Serbia's application for EU membership.
Nevertheless, the resolution rightly points out that 'full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia', including delivering the last two fugitives to The Hague, 'is a fundamental condition for Serbia to progress on the path to EU membership'.
I am voting against this text out of solidarity with the Serbian people.
Serbia is part of that group, and is a country that has followed a difficult path since the former Yugoslavia came to an end after the collapse of the Soviet empire.
The so-called 'war' in Kosovo, which remains unresolved and very controversial throughout the international community, has also contributed to the fact that peace is still not a reality in the region.
I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate Serbia's leaders and people on their efforts and on the progress that they have been making.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the European integration process of Serbia, because the development of regional cooperation remains a key priority for the EU and is intended as a catalyst for the implementation of the policies of reconciliation and good neighbourliness in the Western Balkans.
As it aims to become an important player in guaranteeing security and stability in the region, Serbia's future is closely linked to the European Union and therefore, it must make maximum effort to ensure that it becomes a full Member of the EU.
In order to achieve the status of an EU candidate country and begin negotiations with the EU, Serbia must open a dialogue with Kosovo, adopt a constructive attitude towards the forthcoming general elections in Kosovo and make every effort to prevent the Kosovo Serbian community from being marginalised.
Furthermore, Serbia must continue with reforms under way and carry out new ones.
This proposal for a resolution on the process of Serbia's integration into the EU merits my support for the following reasons.
A commitment was made to all the Western Balkan states in June 2003, at the Thessaloniki European Council, that they would join the European Union once they met the entry criteria.
The pace of integration of the Western Balkan countries is individual and depends on the merits of each one of them with regard, in particular, to their determination to satisfy all the requirements, meet all the obligations, carry out all the reforms and adopt the necessary measures that EU membership implies.
Serbia's role as guarantor of the region's security and stability is crucial.
That is why this resolution reaffirms that Serbia's future lies in the EU, and encourages the country to continue its efforts towards this aim.
It commends Serbia on the progress achieved in the reform process, and welcomes the decision to open the ratification procedure of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia taken by the Council on 14 June 2010, and the fact that 10 Member States have already ratified the agreement.
I voted for this resolution, which reaffirms that Serbia's future lies in the EU, whilst highlighting the progress made in terms of the reforms implemented, and urging the country to continue to make efforts to achieve compliance with the requirements and criteria that EU membership implies.
in writing. - Our group voted in favour, given that 16 out of the 17 amendments tabled were adopted or included in the compromise amendments drafted by the rapporteur, including the one asking that the candidacy be linked to closer cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY).
This Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed back in 2008, but since then it has only been ratified by 12 Member States, including Italy.
Indeed, it must continue to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which has always been an essential condition for accession.
The case of the boys from Temerin has still not been investigated.
Furthermore, I believe that it is crucial that full territorial autonomy be granted to the indigenous Hungarian population of Vojvodina.
Given the interim decision of the Council and the Commission (15191/2007) and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Serbia, I agree with the conclusion of the agreement.
I voted for this report, and it is not the first occasion when mentioning here the reasons for doing so that I include personal ones.
The EU is Serbia's main trading partner, which speaks volumes.
One significant reason for this is that Serbia can become an important player in terms of guaranteeing security and stability in the region.
At the same time, constructive strategies on regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are key elements of the stabilisation and association process.
All these aspects are a key factor in the process of turning the Western Balkans into a region of long-term stability and sustainable development.
The process of Serbia's integration into the EU is also favoured by the progress achieved in the reform process.
Remarkable progress has also been made regarding the promotion of gender equality, especially the adoption of the gender equality law and the national action plan for improving the position of women and promoting gender equality.
I therefore welcome Serbia's application for membership of the European Union, submitted on 22 December 2009, and the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2010 to ask the Commission to examine Serbia's application.
I would congratulate Serbia on the progress achieved in the reform process.
I would stress that the development of regional cooperation remains a key priority for the EU and is intended as a catalyst for reconciliation, good neighbourliness and enhanced people-to-people contacts in the Western Balkans.
I therefore call on Serbia to adopt a constructive approach towards more inclusive regional cooperation.
I agree with this draft Council and Commission decision on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part.
I welcome the Stabilisation Agreement between the EU and Serbia.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement (SAA) lowers the barriers to trade between the European Union and Serbia and is a step in the direction of that Balkan country's possible accession to the EU.
The agreement was signed in 2008, but since then, only 12 Member States, including Italy, have ratified it.
Today's vote shows Parliament's consent to the agreement, and sends a signal to the remaining 15 Member States that they, too, should ratify it.
Serbia is also an important trading partner; it plays a crucial role in the iron and steel industries, among others.
However, we disagreed with some of its aspects, specifically, the conditions imposed by the EU and, in particular, the demand for full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which continues to be a prerequisite for Serbia's future accession to the EU.
We should also remember that in order for the agreement to enter into force, it needs to be ratified by the 27 Member States.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, signed in 2008, provides for the establishment of a free trade area between the EU and Serbia and offers a prospect of this country's accession to the EU.
Serbia submitted its bid for EU membership in December 2009.
In terms of the enlargement process, the situation in the Western Balkans merits special attention.
A country such as Serbia undoubtedly presents problems, but the situation in Belgrade appears to be far better than that of other countries in the area.
This is why, while I hope that there will be a definite acceleration in the process of cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, I support the text, and hope that it will be interpreted as an incentive by the Serbian people and authorities.
in writing. - I voted to give consent to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia but note that so far, only 11 Member States have ratified the Agreement.
The EU-Serbia Stabilisation and Association Agreement, like all agreements of this nature, condemns the people to extreme poverty for the sake of a rapid transition towards a market economy and the establishment of a free-trade area over the next five years.
Serbia is part of that group, and is a country that has followed a difficult path since the former Yugoslavia came to an end after the collapse of the Soviet empire.
The so-called 'war' in Kosovo, which remains unresolved and very controversial throughout the international community, has also contributed to the fact that peace is still not a reality in the region.
I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate Serbia's leaders and people on their efforts and on the progress that they have been making.
I would stress the role that Serbia has been playing in the stabilisation of the region of the Western Balkans as a whole and, in particular, in the stability and cohesion of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I voted in favour of this resolution, because I view favourably the progress made by Serbia in implementing reforms in the areas of public administration, the legal framework and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
I agree with the rapporteur's call for all EU Member States to begin the process of ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia.
The fundamental condition for Serbia on which this report is based is full cooperation with the tribunal in The Hague in order to progress on the path to EU membership.
I would also call on the country to continue to create an environment conducive to the development of democracy, the rule of law, a free market economy and respect for human rights.
Nevertheless, the country should intensify efforts in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the European integration process of Serbia and on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union because I believe that constructive approaches in regional cooperation and good relations with neighbouring countries are essential elements of the stabilisation and association process, and will play a decisive role in the process of transforming the Western Balkans into an area of long-term stability and sustainable development.
Serbia also plays an important role in terms of the security, stability and reconciliation of the peoples of the region.
It also emphasises that Serbia's future lies in membership of the European Union, and encourages the country to continue its efforts to achieve that goal.
There are no obstacles to the European Parliament giving its approval to the draft Council and Commission decision on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part.
In the context of the European Parliament's current competences regarding international agreements, the Council has tabled a request for the agreement to be adopted and the Committee on Foreign Affairs has given its opinion in the form of a recommendation that the agreement should be concluded.
I voted in favour, because I believe this agreement makes an extremely important contribution to a robust and effective neighbourhood policy, in which Serbia plays a role in terms of geopolitical balance in the Balkans.
Having regard to the draft Council and Commission decision, to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and Serbia, to the request for consent submitted by the Council in accordance with Articles 217 and 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to Rules 81 and 90 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and to the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I consider it highly logical and necessary to endorse Parliament's position.
The reforms undertaken by Serbia will enable the country to make significant progress along the path to future EU membership.
in writing. - We have given our support to this text because most of the amendments we presented were adopted.
I have voted in favour of concluding a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia.
In recent years, Serbia has made major progress in moving towards Europe.
I was very pleased at the results of today's vote on the proposal for a decision of the Council and of the Commission on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Republic of Serbia.
Since 2007, Serbia has made visible progress in terms of cooperation with the European Union, which has made it possible for negotiations with the EU to be resumed.
They were completed on 10 September 2007 and, after consultations with the EU Member States, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was initialled on 7 November 2007 in Brussels.
We must remember, however, that a precondition for full cooperation is that Serbia should meet the political condition set by the Council when adopting the negotiating directives, namely, full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
I voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which is aimed at further developing a range of measures, particularly as regards promoting early diagnosis and quality of life, improving epidemiological knowledge of the disease and the coordination of existing research, promoting the sharing of best practices between Member States, and respecting people living with dementia-related illnesses.
At present, around 14 million Europeans develop some form of dementia every year, and Alzheimer's disease is responsible for half of all cases.
It is necessary to bring together the different policies that are currently in place so as to address this situation in a coordinated, objective and more effective way, supporting carers and families in areas such as strengthening different healthcare systems, training and counselling.
I believe it is important that the European strategy on dementia should put more emphasis on the social aspects of people living with dementia, with increasing focus on research and prevention, along with early diagnosis.
I voted in favour of this resolution on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias in which the basic approach is improved coordination between the Member States and a more effective and solidarity-based response geared to prevention and the treatment of people living with dementias, particularly Alzheimer's, as well as the people around them, whether they be healthcare professionals, service providers or relatives.
The communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias is a fundamental step on the way towards specific proposals to link up the various existing policies and ways of tackling this type of disease.
Therefore, it is vital to focus on early diagnosis and prevention and to take action to raise public awareness of what living with dementia entails.
A European strategy must also seek to safeguard the existence of services that guarantee maximum possible coverage and equal conditions as regards access and treatment for patients, regardless of their age, gender, financial resources or place of residence.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this important document.
A new case of neurodegenerative disease (nervous system disorders) is diagnosed every 24 hours.
This causes concern, bearing in mind the increase in average life expectancy and the declining ratio between the number of people working and the number of people who are retired.
I support the European Commission's proposal to establish a European strategy, a solidarity-based response geared to prevention and the treatment of people living with dementias (gradual deterioration in mental abilities), as well as the people around them.
A European strategy should also seek to safeguard the existence of services that guarantee maximum possible coverage and equal conditions as regards access and treatment for patients, regardless of their age, gender, financial resources or place of residence.
Dementia is a disease characterised by the slow and progressive loss of memory, concentration and the ability to learn, usually in people over 65 years of age.
Dementia is a group of neurodegenerative diseases which should not be thought of as a normal part of ageing.
Estimates suggest that more than 8 million Europeans aged between 30 and 99 suffer from neurodegenerative diseases, which equates to 12.5 cases for every 1 000 people, with women more commonly affected than men.
Scientists admit that this figure could double over the next 20 years.
The most common form of dementia in Europe is Alzheimer's disease, which represents between 50% and 70% of cases.
I voted in favour of this report, which is aimed at improving the quality of life and wellbeing of patients, encouraging research and prevention, and improving communication between the Member States so as to respond in a more effective and inclusive way, with a view to preventing and treating people who live with a dementia-related illness, particularly Alzheimer's disease, as well as those around them.
The proposal for the creation of a European Year of Mental Health is also important.
Alzheimer's disease is becoming increasingly widespread and affects an ever-growing number of people, especially as the ratio between the working and retired population continues to diminish.
The proposal the rapporteur is presenting to us is to improve coordination between Member States, solidarity and support not only for those affected, but also for those in any way involved.
An increasing number of people in Europe and the rest of the world are affected by Alzheimer's disease, and in recent decades, the average age of sufferers has fallen.
While, in the past, the disease was already a social and healthcare problem, it has now become an urgent priority on the agenda of national healthcare policies.
This will involve research and the exchange of good practice in dealing with Alzheimer's disease, early diagnosis and support for sufferers' families, as in many Member States, families are today under great financial and psychological pressure as a result of looking after people who need constant care and treatment.
I am voting in favour of the report by Mrs Matias in the hope that much will be done - more than has been done so far - for an illness that is becoming increasingly common, but which has major social implications which are not as widely known.
Europe's recent findings show that Alzheimer's disease remains underdiagnosed in the EU and that many inequalities exist across the Member States in regard to prevention, access to treatment and provision of appropriate services.
The fact that scientific progress has failed to diagnose it before its onset or find a treatment makes it all the more incumbent on us to find solutions for improving the lives of those who suffer from it.
This is why coordination between Member States needs to be improved, along with adopting a more effective and solidarity-based response geared towards prevention and the treatment of people living with dementia, particularly Alzheimer's, as well as towards supporting the people around them.
For any European strategy in this area to work, it is crucial that all countries give priority to drawing up national action plans.
It is important to fill the gaps that still exist in such areas as professional training or support for families and to take action to increase public awareness of the issues that living with dementia raises.
I voted in favour of the report on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease, because the European Commission and the governments of the Member States undertake to introduce European and national action plans to: promote research at European level into the causes, prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease and to increase funding for it; to improve prevention and early diagnosis; to organise information campaigns for the general public, in order to improve the ability to recognise the symptoms of the disease; to recognise the heavy burden on carers of patients with dementia and to provide psychological support for patients and their families.
However, the most important thing is to safeguard and promote a public approach to the disease overall.
This public approach is needed in order to avoid speculation by pharmaceutical companies and other private interests.
The Member States need to provide the necessary government funded services and infrastructures, so that the health and social consequences on patients and their environment can be addressed.
It is estimated that 7.3 million Europeans suffer from different forms of dementia, the majority of cases being Alzheimer's disease.
This is a large-scale health problem, as we should bear in mind that forms of dementia affect not only those who suffer from them, but also those who care for them.
If there were a European strategy in this area, it would allow a more integrated approach and a more effective response to treatment and awareness of mental illnesses, making the European public more sensitive to brain pathologies associated with ageing.
Firstly, I believe that it is important to improve coordination between the Member States by developing national strategies and plans targeted at Alzheimer's disease.
Secondly, I believe it is important to ensure greater support and provision of services for patients and their families.
This situation requires a new attitude from the European Union and the Member States on the prevention and treatment of this disease.
The report on which we voted today, whose content I support, proposes improved coordination between the Member States' medical and social services, and the people around those suffering from Alzheimer's, such as healthcare professionals, relatives or private charities.
I would also stress the importance given in the report to early diagnosis, to the existence of interconnected centres of reference, to a multidisciplinary approach to the disease, to the importance of professional training specialising in this type of diseases, and to the network of support for families.
I also agree with the idea expressed in the report that a European strategy on these diseases must protect services that enable universal and geographically widespread access to the system.
The European response remains weak, and the situation of patients, their families and their carers is very imbalanced across Europe: currently, only seven Member States have national strategies in place.
These strategies must address the disease's social and health consequences, as well as the services and support necessary for sufferers and their families.
The establishment of a public-private research, development and investment programme must therefore be encouraged at European level.
I voted in favour of the report on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, because it puts forward measures to ensure the dignity of persons suffering from dementia, reduce inequalities and prevent social exclusion, and promote early diagnosis and research into the prevention of these diseases.
In Europe, some 9.9 million people are suffering from some form of dementia, which means that Europe ranks second with regard to the prevalence of this type of disease.
In Portugal alone, the number of dementia patients is estimated at 153 000, more than 90 000 of whom have Alzheimer's, and it is predicted that these numbers will double by 2020.
For this reason, I cannot but demonstrate my strongest support for an initiative that proposes to declare dementia an EU health priority and urge the Member States to develop specific national strategies and plans for dealing with Alzheimer's disease.
The Democratic Social Centre has defended this approach in Portugal, as it is at the forefront and perfectly in agreement with the EU's health policies and priorities, by demanding from the government a National Dementia Plan that guarantees dignified, humanised and skilled support and care for people suffering from Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia.
Every year, 1.4 million citizens living in Europe develop some type of dementia, meaning that a new case is diagnosed every 24 seconds.
In Portugal, it is estimated that there are 153 000 people suffering from dementia, with 90 000 suffering from Alzheimer's.
Given the ageing of the population and the decreasing ratio of working to retired people, it is expected that dementia will be one of the main challenges to the sustainability of national social and healthcare systems.
It is therefore crucial for governments to develop specific national strategies and plans for Alzheimer's disease in order to deal with the social and health consequences of dementia, not just by guaranteeing the provision of services, but also by supporting people with dementia and their families.
I welcome the proposal to launch a European Year of Mental Health, in order to raise awareness of brain-related diseases associated with ageing, and of ways to detect and identify early symptoms of such diseases, with public information campaigns on their prevention and treatment.
Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia are diseases that have been arousing justified attention and concern.
According to the 2010 report of Alzheimer's Disease International, approximately 9.9 million people in Europe are affected and it is predicted that this number will rise considerably by 2020.
It is absolutely essential to encourage and develop research in this area, particularly in connection with prevention, diagnosis and treatment, when the fundamental principle is that the public sector takes on these responsibilities without restrictions of benefit or access for any patient.
I fully support this project on Alzheimer's disease and other dementia diseases.
Alzheimer's disease is the main cause of dementia and accounts for over 44 000 sufferers in Ireland and about 10 million across Europe.
Alzheimer's is a progressive disease, which means that more and more damage occurs to the brain over time.
There must be improved coordination between Member States in relation to research into the root causes of dementia diseases and in relation to best care practice.
One in four people over the age of 65 could be affected in 2020.
We can therefore say that all Europeans will, at one time or another, be directly or indirectly confronted with problems linked to Alzheimer's disease or other dementias.
Hence, I gave my full backing to this own-initiative report, which calls on the European Commission to make the fight against Alzheimer's disease one of Europe's priorities for action in the field of health.
It is crucial to ensure that Alzheimer's sufferers have access to appropriate healthcare and, above all, we need closer European cooperation in the fields of research (within the context of the next research framework programme), prevention, diagnosis (with common criteria, common protocols and so on) and treatment.
In the meantime, it is essential to place prevention at the heart of any strategy and to direct our efforts towards obtaining the earliest possible diagnosis, as is highlighted in the report.
The Member States should all take action immediately, including through prevention campaigns based on an ambitious European plan for combating the disease.
Furthermore, I wish to pay tribute to the Alzheimer Europe association which, alongside national associations fighting against the disease, plays a crucial role in helping patients and their families.
I gave my full support to this own-initiative report, which seeks to encourage the European Commission to make Alzheimer's disease its top priority where action in the field of health is concerned.
Not only must we promote early diagnosis methods, develop the means to detect as early as possible the symptoms of this disease and concentrate on research efforts into neurodegenerative diseases; we must also and, above all, seek to improve the daily lives of patients and their families, as this aspect is still too often overlooked by public policies.
in writing. - The Matias report deals with an issue of increasing importance in our ageing society.
In my own country, the Scottish Government has made dementia a national priority, and Scottish expertise is being used in research of international significance.
This European initiative is to be welcomed as a means of better coordinating the EU's work against dementia.
I voted in favour of this resolution on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, because the basic approach is improved coordination between the Member States and a more effective and solidarity-based response geared to prevention and the treatment of people living with dementias, particularly Alzheimer's, as well as the people around them, whether they be healthcare professionals, service providers or relatives.
It is important and essential to promote early diagnosis and a good quality of life, to support cooperation between the Member States through sharing best practices and clinical studies in this field, and to respect the rights and expectations of people living with this difficult disease.
This is a fundamental step on the way towards specific proposals to link up the various existing policies and ways of tackling this type of disease and to guarantee maximum possible coverage and equal conditions as regards access and treatment for patients, regardless of financial resources.
With today's vote on the Matias report, the European Parliament has sought to emphasise that the fight against Alzheimer's disease is an EU health priority.
Adopting this report on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease marks an important step in the battle against this disease at a time when the number of people in Europe suffering from dementia is 9.9 million, with Alzheimer's patients accounting for the majority of them.
Adopting this report will allow Member States to take coordinated measures to combat this disease in the European Union.
I think that one possible solution is to leverage the resources of the flagship initiative 'Innovation Union' in the Europe 2020 strategy and of the pilot 'European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing', which is due to be launched this spring.
Given the anticipated dramatic increase in the number of Alzheimer's patients by 2020, there is a need in the future to develop partnerships between public institutions, and between private and public institutions in the process of implementing research projects, thereby harnessing facilities, resources and experience in the private and public sectors to combat the effects of Alzheimer's and of other types of dementia.
We should pay particular attention to Alzheimer's disease, since it is becoming an increasingly serious problem, not only in the EU but also on a global scale, and, according to specialists, the number of sufferers is constantly on the rise.
I therefore voted in favour of the Matias report on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias.
in writing. - I voted for this own-initiative report which is Parliament's reply to the Commission Communication on a European Initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias.
Its key objectives are: the promotion of early diagnosis and quality of life; improvement of epidemiological knowledge of the disease and coordination of existing research; support for solidarity between Member States through sharing best practices; and finally, respect for the rights of people living with dementia.
These are all welcome proposals, as I believe a European strategy on dementia should put more emphasis on the social dimension of people living with dementia and their carers while further supporting research into prevention and early diagnosis.
An alarming statistic comes from the 2009 report on Alzheimer's disease: an estimated 35.6 million people worldwide are suffering from dementia in all its forms.
Considering that early diagnosis can help keep healthcare costs down throughout Europe, it is also fundamental to share out the level of financial investment and draw up policies at European level to encourage targeted prevention.
It is only by making a joint effort that we will be able to address the social and health consequences of dementia and provide services and support for people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases, as well as for their families.
My party in Portugal, the Democratic and Social Centre - People's Party, has always argued strongly for a national dementia plan so that people suffering this type of disease can be monitored by qualified people, and in a way that is dignified and humane.
This makes it even more important to start treatment at an early stage.
One important measure involves educating the public about prevention, but also about early recognition and delaying the onset of the disease.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the Matias report.
I am in favour of Mrs Matias's report, in that there is a need in Europe to ensure close cooperation and coordination between Member States able to provide an effective response in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease, which today affects 6 million Europeans.
Without European support for national efforts, not only in the areas of prevention and treatment, but also in the coordination of research funding, the dissemination of best practices and appropriate financing for the pharmaceutical industry working to discover effective drugs, we will not be able to foster the independence and dignity of persons suffering from diseases that are severely invalidating, including in terms of their affective and social relations.
My decision to vote in favour of the report on Alzheimer's disease stems from a desire to improve the current European strategy for combating the disease.
The progressive ageing of the European population is being accompanied by a substantial increase in the number of people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases, 50% of which turn out to be Alzheimer's disease.
Therefore, this report is a step forward in the fight against this serious disease.
It is also necessary to fill the gaps that still exist in such areas as professional training and support for families, by raising public awareness of what living with dementia entails.
I voted in favour of the report on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease, as it will help to improve the quality of life of patients and their relatives and reduce inequalities between the Member States in terms of prevention, access to treatment and the provision of suitable services to patients suffering from dementia.
There are 1.4 million citizens in Europe suffering from some form of dementia and over 8 million Europeans aged between 30 and 99 suffer from neuro-degenerative diseases; half of these suffer from Alzheimer's and this number is expected to double every 20 years.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias.
I share some of the concerns that run through the report by Mrs Matias, and I support the appeal to the Council to declare dementia an EU health priority.
In fact, the level of transnational coordination is relatively low in the EU, leading to fragmentation and limited sharing of knowledge and best practice among Member States; research into Alzheimer's disease is lagging behind that into other serious diseases in Europe.
In the light of these facts, which are well reported in this document, it is necessary to develop not just specific national plans and strategies for Alzheimer's disease, which are essential, but also an instrument at European level that promotes the effective coordination of European research in this area.
I believe this is the way to ensure that healthcare is provided according to best practice in all European countries at the same time.
The statistics on Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia are extremely worrying, such as the fact that every year, 1.4 million citizens living in the European Union develop some kind of dementia and a new case is diagnosed every 24 seconds.
Almost one in 20 people over the age of 65 suffers from dementia, while it is estimated that more than 8 million Europeans suffer from diseases of this kind.
This report is a fundamental step towards devising a European strategy in this area based on four key objectives: promoting early diagnosis and quality of life; improving epidemiological knowledge of the disease and coordinating existing research; supporting solidarity between Member States through sharing best practices; and respecting the rights of people living with dementia, as well as of those caring for them.
Every year, 1.4 million citizens living in Europe develop some type of dementia.
Almost one in 20 people over the age of 65 and one in five over 80 suffer from dementia.
The number of people suffering from dementia in Europe is estimated at 9.9 million, and Alzheimer's disease is responsible for the vast majority of cases.
Neurodegenerative diseases represent one of the main causes of disability and dependence in older people, and it is thought that the number of people suffering from dementias could double by 2020.
In this context, the importance of this report must be stressed: it draws attention to the need for Member States and the EU to significantly strengthen cooperation and coordination of innovative and multidisciplinary clinical research efforts into the causes, prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease, as well as information sharing and the level of financial resources in this area.
I would also highlight the stress placed on early diagnosis, the training of professionals, support for families and public information campaigns, all in order to guarantee these patients the provision of healthcare according to best practice.
Almost one in 20 people over the age of 65 and one in five over 80 suffer from dementia.
In total, more than 8 million Europeans aged between 30 and 99 are affected, and scientists estimate that this number could double every 20 years in future.
in writing. - We have supported this proposal because, among other things, it calls on the Council to declare dementia to be an EU health priority and strongly urges the Member States to develop specific national plans and strategies for Alzheimer's disease in order to deal with the social and health consequences of dementia and to provide services and support for people with dementia and their families, as has been done in several Member States where the Alzheimer's and similar diseases plan launched in 2008 has made it possible to coordinate medical and social care and clinical and basic research into these diseases at national level.
The average age of the European population is constantly rising and this makes age-related problems, particularly dementias, increasingly important.
A study by Alzheimer's Disease International shows that each Alzheimer's patient costs EU countries EUR 24 000 a year, making a total of around EUR 161 billion.
Given the statistics on the number of people involved, it is necessary to provide services and support for people with dementia and particularly their families, the main sources of support for their care.
The common objective must be to promote greater public awareness about the diseases associated with ageing and to complement World Alzheimer's Day, held on 21 September, with information campaigns on the prevention of such diseases and the treatment of cerebral vascular accidents.
I voted in favour of the report on a European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias.
Parliament recently held a debate on issues relating to elderly people in the context of the economic crisis, labour market demands and raising employment levels.
Every year, 1.4 million Europeans develop one of the forms of dementia, and the number of sufferers is estimated at 10 million.
In Poland, over 200 000 people suffer from Alzheimer's disease.
Neurodegenerative diseases are one of the leading causes of disability among elderly people, and the problem is becoming worse as a result of the increase in the average lifespan.
The World Alzheimer Report published in 2010 states that the worldwide annual costs of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia amount to USD 600 billion.
We need a joint European strategy in the fight against dementia.
We must develop and promote preventive measures against Alzheimer's disease or, in other words, a healthy lifestyle, which means staying physically and mentally active, being involved in the community and eating a healthy diet.
I have voted emphatically in favour of this own-initiative report on Alzheimer's.
We must also consider the impact of expectations on the evolution of this disease.
Unduly negative expectations can often have an adverse effect on the disease, as was, indeed, the conclusion of a conference organised by the Belgian Presidency at the end of last year.
Better coordination between the Member States is essential too.
I also support the fact that we must endeavour to achieve the widest possible coverage as regards access to treatment, and equal conditions for patients, regardless of their age, gender, financial resources or place of residence.
I have voted in favour of the report which includes an impressive and detailed description of the problems, wishes and concerns of Alzheimer's patients, and the people caring for them, and which calls on us to take joint action.
At the moment, only one in every 15 Europeans over the age of 65 suffers from dementia, but this figure will increase significantly over the decades to come.
in writing. - I fully support this new initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia.
Dementia is expected to be one of the main challenges for healthcare in the coming years and cooperation between countries to improve prevention, diagnosis and care is vital.
As well as protecting the wellbeing of those suffering from dementia, it is important to raise awareness of carers, who often have to deal with emotional and financial difficulties; the development of action plans to improve the day-to-day situation for carers is another step towards improving the lives of those affected by Alzheimer's and dementia.
During this plenary session, we voted on the European Parliament resolution on the European Initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias.
I voted in favour of this resolution, since it is a very important step on the path towards detailed proposals for joining up existing political strategies and ways of managing diseases of this kind.
Neurodegenerative diseases are currently one of the main causes of disability among elderly people, and it is highly likely that the number of people affected by these diseases will increase significantly.
As a result of the rapid increase in the number of people suffering from Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia, there is a need for rapid action by the EU, which involves ensuring a greater focus on early diagnosis and prevention.
The Member States must share their expertise and involve both scientists and healthcare professionals in the process.
The alarming number of people suffering from the disease and the resulting costs for the individual Member States make the need for prevention urgent.
The report also refers to the provision of practical and psychological support for relatives.
Finally, the report mentions the importance of maintaining the dignity of people suffering from Alzheimer's.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the petition concerning the failure of the European Commission to take action regarding a competition case and the harmful impact of this on the company concerned.
It is necessary therefore to call on the Commission immediately to take the steps needed to end the still-pending procedure initiated in 1997 under the safeguard clause of Article 8 of Directive 93/42/EEC.
Furthermore, the Commission must urgently respond to the legitimate concerns of the petitioner - who has been experiencing this intolerable situation for 13 years and has consequently suffered considerable loss of earnings - and to take the necessary steps to enable the petitioner to assert his rights.
The manufacturer placed the device on the market under a new name in 2003 and, in 2005, the government of Upper Bavaria ordered it to be withdrawn from the market, under the German Medical Devices Act, without informing the Commission accordingly.
The manufacturer informed the Commission of the second sales prohibition with a view to initiating infringement proceedings against Germany, but the Commission claims that there was insufficient proof that the inhaler satisfied the essential requirements stipulated in the directive, and it concluded that there was no need for a new product safety review.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe it to be imperative that the Commission urgently respond to the legitimate concerns of the injured party, to enable him to assert his rights.
I am pleased that Parliament has today adopted a resolution concerning Mr Klein's petition.
The legal basis and the legitimacy of the second ban are definitely subjects for dispute.
It is important that the Commission quickly finds a solution which will resolve this problem once and for all.
My vote in favour of the motion for a resolution was based on the need to state that Europe, and specifically the European Parliament as a democratically elected body, has always been on the side of its citizens.
The resolution adopted today is based on Petition 0473/2008 presented by Christoph Klein, a German citizen, concerning the failure of the Commission to take action regarding a competition case relating to the withdrawal from sale of an asthma device.
in writing. - This report shows the value of the work of Parliament's Committee on Petitions.
It seems to me that 10 years to straighten out a conflict is too long and it is the Commission's responsibility to find a solution quickly, for the good of all concerned.
I must, however, stress how important it is that all medical devices brought onto the market in the EU comply with all Union safety standards.
Council Directive 93/42/EEC concerning medical devices explains precisely which requirements a device must meet, firstly in order to be authorised, and secondly, in order to remain on the market.
It is the responsibility of the Member States to put controls in place to prevent the unauthorised use of the CE mark and, if necessary, to have products withdrawn from the market.
The relevant authority must inform the Commission immediately of any measures of this kind that have been taken.
I voted in favour of this resolution which, following a petition presented by a German citizen relating to the placing of asthma inhalers on the market, calls on the Commission to take the measures necessary to conclude a procedure that has, regrettably, been dragging on for 13 years, with considerable financial losses for the company in question.
in writing. - With the adoption of this resolution, the EP: 1.
Calls on the Commission immediately to take the steps needed to end the still-pending procedure initiated in 1997 under the safeguard clause of Article 8 of Directive 93/42/EEC; and 3.
Calls on the Commission urgently to respond to the legitimate concerns of the petitioner - who has been experiencing this intolerable situation for 13 years and has consequently suffered considerable loss of earnings - and to take the necessary steps to enable the petitioner to assert his rights.
Germany introduced a ban on the sale of particular asthma inhalers first in 1997 and then again in 2005.
The Commission was called on to respond regarding the legitimacy of the bans but never issued a ruling, thus breaching the safeguard clause procedure laid down by Directive 93/42/EEC, which should have obliged the Commission to do so.
The seriousness of this omission is made all the more acute by the fact that, according to reliable estimates, the inhalers withdrawn from the market could have improved the quality of life of some 30 million asthma sufferers.
The question tabled by Mrs Mazzoni calls on the Commission to respond regarding the failure to comply with the safeguard clause prescribed in Article 8 of Directive 93/42/EEC.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in Haiti one year after the earthquake, in which the European Parliament reiterates its solidarity with the people of Haiti suffering as a result of the earthquake and the cholera epidemic.
Human rights associations continue to deplore the appalling living conditions in these camps, in particular, the 'rape and sexual violence' to which women are subjected.
However, over the long term, it is clear that humanitarian agencies cannot and must not continue to make up for the weaknesses of the Haitian State or to take its place, and that urgent action must finally be taken to ensure long-term development, in particular, as regards access to healthcare and drinking water and urban renewal.
Although the international community reacted effectively to the tragedy in Haiti, allocating financial and humanitarian assistance, hitherto, only a small portion of the USD 10 billion pledged has been paid.
The European Union, as the leading donor, must exercise political leadership in coordinating reconstruction efforts in Haiti and ensuring that aid reaches those who need it most.
The situation in Haiti has become extremely grave at a time when all the international community's efforts have not helped to improve the situation in this state, devastated by civil war and natural disasters, and now hit by a cholera epidemic.
The poor population of the small state is actually the big loser in terms of all these problems.
The entire international community and the European Union, in particular, must place their involvement in rebuilding Haiti as high as possible on their own agendas before it is too late for its population.
I welcome the international community's massive response to the devastating earthquake in Haiti, and its genuine political will to support the reconstruction of the country.
I particularly welcome the collective commitment made by the Commission and the Member States to donate a total of EUR 1.2 billion, including EUR 460 million in non-humanitarian aid from the Commission.
However, the scale of the disaster in Haiti is lamentable and its effects are still highly visible a year on from the earthquake.
It remains crucial to help this country recover from the earthquake, but it is also important that the international community take advantage of this opportunity to help to resolve the economic, social and political inequalities within Haiti.
One year on, the effects of the disaster in Haiti are distressing and the situation from the human, economic and social point of view is chaotic.
The international community, in liaison with the Haitian Government, must enter into a firm, long-term commitment, honour the promises made, and make every effort to protect the Haitian people.
It is important to Haiti's inhabitants that the European Union shows solidarity with them after the disaster which has hit them, causing significant human and material losses.
I therefore welcome Europe's decision to commit to providing financial assistance for the reconstruction process in this country, amounting to roughly EUR 1.2 billion, as well as the proposal from the EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Catherine Ashton, to adopt an economic plan for the next 10 years, focusing on both development and growth in the region, along with the country's reconstruction.
It is an important decision, especially as the EU is one of the biggest donors to this country in the Caribbean region.
However, I think that EU funds ought to be distributed according to criteria similar to those applied in Member States or according to specific programmes, not only for rebuilding houses, schools, roads and other infrastructural items, but also for granting micro-credits which will boost development and the launch of micro-projects for economic recovery, based on the current model used in the EU for micro-enterprises.
Nevertheless, I would stress the strong focus on 'long-term commitment' and on seeking solutions that 'tackle the root causes of underlying poverty in Haiti once and for all', and the call for the EU/Member States to incorporate 'local food production and food security into the reconstruction effort in Haiti, via the development of rural infrastructure and the provision of aid to small farmers'.
The data available having been collated, all the indicators point to this fact: nothing seems to have progressed quickly, with the necessary efficiency or with adequate competence.
More than a million people are still homeless.
The international community cannot abandon this country and allow it to become one more failed state.
A year on from the earthquake, the situation in Haiti remains chaotic, the country is still in a state of emergency and reconstruction work has barely started.
I therefore argue that the Haitian Government should stand by and implement the commitments made in the national reconstruction plan and strengthen the state's authority, so as to make local government more effective, while strengthening the capacity of local and national institutions.
The reality on the ground shows what the resolution seems to want to hide, which is that the principal preoccupation of the United States, shared by the EU, was to secure and perpetuate its political interference in order to ensure its economic and geostrategic domination of Haiti, ignoring the human drama that Haitians have been living for decades.
Cuba has sent doctors and specialist personnel who, up to now, have treated more than 50 000 people against cholera and, with the help of the Haitian authorities, it has now been possible to reach the most isolated communities, thereby guaranteeing that no citizen of this country is left without help to face cholera, thus allowing thousands of lives to be saved.
I urge the international community, including the European Union, to fulfil all the commitments made at the International Donors' Conference in New York last year and that the money be given, without delay, to the Haitian people and to the NGOs involved.
The efforts made by the many aid workers, whose courageous commitment is to be applauded, are met with the inability of the regime in power to lessen the risk of civil war that is threatening the island.
We must demand the full application of the European Consensus on Humanitarian Aid (for concerted and coordinated action to improve the collective response to humanitarian crises) and emphasise the fact that the commitments made during the International Donors' Conference on 31 March, in particular, for the reconstruction of Haiti, should become a reality and not remain mere words.
I abstained in the vote on the compromise resolution between the political groups in the European Parliament on Haiti.
The people of Haiti need real development aid, and this should be ensured as a matter of priority through the international deployment of building and public works teams and of appropriate equipment, so that they can actively participate in the urgent reconstruction of the public and private buildings in the country, starting with the poorest neighbourhoods, towns and villages.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in Haiti, because the European Parliament reiterates its solidarity with the people of Haiti suffering as a result of the earthquake and the cholera epidemic.
I agree with the very important call for the international community, as well as the EU, to make a firm and long-term commitment to immediately make good all their promises, because more than a million people are living in what were supposed to be temporary makeshift camps and human rights organisations report that living conditions in these camps without facilities are terrible and women 'face the risk of rape and sexual violence'.
The international community must use this opportunity to eliminate the root cause of poverty in Haiti once and for all.
On 12 January 2010, the earthquake which struck Haiti caused approximately 222 750 deaths and made almost 2 million people homeless.
Ten months after this tragedy, a cholera epidemic broke out on the island and has claimed 3 333 lives to date.
In today's vote, we have asked the European Union to cooperate with the Haitian institutions with the aim of developing rules and regulations which will help the country to make better use of all the financial aid it has received over the last year and, above all, to do so according to principles of democracy and legality.
Underlining the importance of the link between emergency aid, reconstruction and development, and of the promotion of a policy of close cooperation with the local government is, in short, the result we hope to achieve from the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution which commends the efforts and achievements of humanitarian organisations (the Red Cross, NGOs and the United Nations) as well as the Member States, and stresses the need to communicate the non-visible effects of humanitarian work and the fact that the situation was brought under control thanks to, inter alia, the provision of care for the injured, drinking water, food and temporary shelter.
However, the resolution also notes that the cholera epidemic has highlighted the near-total helplessness of the Haitian State in the face of an easily preventable and treatable disease, along with the limitations of the international aid system in a country benefiting from massive humanitarian deployment (12 000 NGOs); stresses that humanitarian agencies cannot and must not continue to make up for the weaknesses of the Haitian State or to take its place, and that urgent action must finally be taken to ensure long-term development, in particular, as regards access to healthcare and drinking water and urban renewal.
It also welcomes the collective commitment made by the Commission and the Member States at the International Donors' Conference for the reconstruction of Haiti to donate a total of EUR 1.2 billion, including EUR 460 million in non-humanitarian aid from the Commission.
Even now, human rights associations say that there are still 1 million displaced persons living in inhuman conditions in makeshift refugee camps.
It is time for us to join forces to return everything to normal in this country that has been rocked by natural phenomena.
In fact, the outbreak of cholera has made things significantly worse, despite all the humanitarian and economic aid being poured into the country.
The capital, Port-au-Prince, still lies buried under tonnes of rubble and the local people have only shovels and wheelbarrows to remove it with.
While thousands of people still have no shelter and the trade in children is flourishing, the country, which is ruled by a dictator, remains in a state of political chaos after the elections.
I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, as the people of Haiti need our help and the Western world must face up to its responsibilities.
It claimed the lives of 222 750 people and forced around 1.7 million to leave their homes.
In connection with these tragic events, on 19 January, the European Parliament adopted a resolution describing the situation on the island one year after the disaster.
Despite the efforts undertaken by many international organisations and international aid aimed at rebuilding the country, the situation in Haiti remains turbulent, and the country is immersed in crisis.
In view of the country's current situation, the European Parliament calls on the European Union and the international community as a whole to show solidarity with the island and to cooperate more closely with the Haitian authorities, as well as stating that any measures to reconstruct the country should be taken only after consulting those living there.
Finally, I would like to express my solidarity with Haiti, and I hope that the work to reconstruct the country will be streamlined.
A year on from the terrible earthquake in Haiti, one of the most devastating natural disasters in the history of humankind, the signs of the disaster are still deeply etched.
Unbelievably, a few months after the terrible earthquake, the arrival of a hurricane brought a cholera epidemic, which made the already complicated political situation much worse.
Therefore, I believe that it is essential and a matter of duty for the European institutions to provide as much assistance as possible, at least in order to guarantee that the people who have lost everything have housing, medical assistance, food and basic social services.
I voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in Haiti a year after the earthquake: humanitarian aid and reconstruction.
The resolution emphasises issues such as protection of human rights and dignity.
It reminds us that, at present in Haiti, apart from the conditions of poverty and the feeling of insecurity that prevail among the citizens (60% of the population are living outside and 80% are living in absolute poverty), there is acute concern about the situation of the most vulnerable persons, who face violence, sexual abuse, human trafficking, exploitation and abandonment.
In this resolution, the European Parliament calls on the Commission to go one step beyond simply establishing these cases and to make a practical contribution to the process of establishing a system of social protection in Haiti.
A year on from the earthquake, the situation in Haiti remains chaotic, the country is still in a state of emergency and the majority of the population is living in extremely precarious conditions.
Therefore, the international community, including the EU, must make a long-term commitment to honour all the pledges made regarding reconstruction assistance for Haiti and improving the Haitian people's living conditions.
in writing. - Haiti is again a matter of urgency.
We reiterate with this resolution our solidarity with the people of Haiti suffering as a result of the earthquake and the cholera epidemic, and stress that reconstruction efforts must involve the consultation of, and include, the Haitian people and Haitian civil society.
We also urge a strong, long-term commitment from the international community, including the EU, to honour all the pledges made at the International Donors' Conference in New York and to deliver the funds without delay.
More than a million people, half of them children, still live in makeshift camps, and a cholera epidemic caused over 4 000 deaths last October.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament resolution, because I hope that the Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania will have the political will to reject the proposed law, which would violate human rights and freedoms.
This draft law has not yet been adopted in the Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania, so with this resolution, the European Parliament wants to warn that the European Union is concerned about such legislative proposals which violate human rights and discriminate against citizens.
Furthermore, these draft amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences are contrary to Article 25 of the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania, which stipulates that 'the human being must not be hindered from seeking, receiving and imparting information and ideas', and Article 29, which states 'all persons shall be equal before the law and other State institutions and officials'.
The Lithuanian Government presented a negative opinion of the proposal being debated in the Lithuanian Parliament, because it is contrary to international, European Union and national legislation.
I therefore hope that the Lithuanian Parliament will take into account international and European Union criticism, this European Parliament resolution and the Lithuanian Government's negative conclusion.
Taking into account the international and European human rights obligations to which the EU is subject, in particular, respect for the rights of all minorities and the fight against all forms of discrimination, it is not acceptable that one of its Member States should establish laws that clearly question the values and principles on which the Union is based.
I respect the right that any state has to discuss, amend and approve national laws without any form of external interference, provided that it does so with complete respect for human rights and without violating fundamental principles, in this case, the principle of non-discrimination, whether such principles are established in the Treaties or in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I hope that Lithuania, or any other Member State that is in the same situation, will refrain from approving or will proceed to revise and alter any national laws that are in conflict with any rule, principle or value whatsoever established in European legislation with the greatest possible diligence and speed.
in writing. - I support this resolution, which calls on the Lithuanian Parliament to reject draft legislation that seeks to punish the 'public promotion of homosexual relations' with fines.
This legislation is in complete breach of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and of the European Union Treaties which commit the EU and its Member States to upholding freedom of expression and fundamental freedoms and to providing European instruments to fight discrimination and human rights violations.
This is not the first time that a Member State has impeded European citizens' rights and freedoms regarding sexual orientation under the pretext of non-interference, thus, in effect, encouraging discrimination.
I voted in favour of this resolution, since it upholds the fact that the institutions of the EU and the Member States have the obligation to ensure that human rights are respected, protected and promoted in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union without any distinction on account of sexual orientation.
On 12 November 2010, the Lithuanian Parliament decided to initiate the process of appraising the change to the Lithuanian Administrative Code, according to which the public promotion of homosexual relations must be punishable with a fine.
In this context, I support Parliament's resolution as an initiative reaffirming the values and principles upon which the European Union's identity is founded, without putting the fundamental principle of subsidiarity at risk.
I would stress acknowledgement of and respect for the right of a Member State, such as Lithuania, to freely discuss and compare different concepts and ideas during the process of amending and passing national legislation.
I would also stress the Lithuanian authorities' reaffirmation of their determination to respect the European legal framework and not go against it, as well as to promote respect for human rights.
Some people see this as an unacceptable attack on human rights and as outright discrimination.
The resolution also emphasises 'the right of any democracy [...] to modify and adopt national laws and provisions, without interfering in the debates of national parliaments'.
However, the very fact that we are discussing the issue here and tabling texts constitutes interference and is a violation of Lithuania's rights and those of its citizens.
The Council is still blocking the introduction of a cross-cutting directive on combating discrimination aimed at guaranteeing equal protection against all forms of discrimination.
The law had been enacted by the right-wing unionist government of Margaret Thatcher - a government which had no legitimacy among the people of Scotland.
The European Parliament's motto 'United in diversity' is the principle that must guide all our work within and outside the European Union.
It was in line with this principle that I voted in favour of this resolution, because I believe that, while the European Parliament may not wish to interfere in a country's internal affairs, it should always be able to express its opinions and to act as a sounding board in order to convey the needs of the European public as a whole.
The resolution adopted today serves to highlight our Parliament's common position with regard to the Lithuanian Seimas.
Therefore, I believe that it is our duty today as MEPs, but as citizens before that, to ask the Lithuanian Parliament to reject the new legislation in the name of the essential principle of safeguarding fundamental human rights.
I want to emphasise in the first instance that the fight against all forms of discrimination, in particular, those based on sexual orientation, is one of the European Union's fundamental principles.
We now have a sizeable body of European legislation on the subject, which means that this principle can be put into practice fully in all our Member States.
It is also important to point out that the text we are discussing today is only a bill at this stage, presented by a few members of the Lithuanian Parliament.
Let us not be too hasty therefore in condemning a country or a government.
Instead, I would call upon our Lithuanian fellow Members to ensure they abide strictly by our Community legislation, in particular, Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which prohibits all forms of discrimination.
This resolution rejects the institutionalisation of a law which would override the principle of equality between Lithuanians on the grounds of their sexual orientation and even punish them for it.
This proposal for a resolution is in line with this: it warns that the Lithuanian State is damaging freedom and the principle of equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) guarantees that people with differing sexual orientations will not suffer discrimination.
The European Parliament believes that the adoption of the law on the protection of minors against the detrimental effects of public information by the Lithuanian Parliament represents a clear violation of the treaty.
It also calls on the Lithuanian Government to abstain from any further legislative amendments on this subject and to include sexual orientation in the list of protected grounds.
I have abstained because, in my opinion, it is not clear to what extent the EU is interfering in national affairs.
The institutions and Member States of the EU are obligated to ensure that human rights are respected, protected and promoted within the European Union, pursuant to the European Convention on Human Rights, to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, without any discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
It is therefore important to call on the Lithuanian authorities not to pass any legislation in conflict with the principle of equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
In 2010, the Lithuanian Parliament passed an amendment to the administrative code implementing the Law on the Protection of Minors against the Detrimental Effects of Public Information, adopted in 2009.
This amendment would prevent the mass media from promoting sexual relations or other forms of homosexual behaviour not enshrined in the constitution or the civil code, not least in view of the influence that the mass media have on children's emotional and mental development.
Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms states that everyone has the right to freedom of expression.
The common objective should be to pay greater attention to matters relating to children and adolescents, which means working with all kinds of media professionals to develop a firm sense of collective responsibility.
