Part one Subject: Protecting women's health The Commission has adopted a new strategy on gender equality for the period 2010-2015.
Member of the Commission. - Women and men are exposed to health risks in different ways with, consequently, different health outcomes.
The strategy for these actions, specifically targeting women's health, includes awareness-raising seminars on women's health and exchanging best practices on gender-specific health policies.
It is estimated that 32 000 deaths from breast cancer alone could be prevented each year across the European Union if effective national screening programmes for breast cancer were implemented.
I am sure that this will affect the health of our citizens of both genders. (RO) At the moment, there are 120 million citizens in the European Union exposed to the risk of poverty.
I would like to ask you what measures you have in mind for us to ensure that the measures for the early screening of cervical or breast cancer will be available to all women, regardless of their social or material situation, and especially to ensure that we will have a fair healthcare system, offering good quality services throughout the entire European Union.
The Commission has, in fact, issued its guidelines on breast screening and we have been pushing Member States to abide by these guidelines and introduce breast-screening programmes into their countries as fast as possible.
Subject: European Parliament declaration of 23 June 2010 on setting up a European early warning system (EWS) for paedophiles and sex offenders On 23 June 2010, the European Parliament adopted a resolution 'setting up a European early warning system (EWS) for paedophiles and sex offenders'.
Member of the Commission. - I am strongly committed to the fight against child abuse and, specifically, child sexual abuse.
On 29 March 2010, the Commission adopted a proposal for a directive on child sexual abuse and exploitation and child pornography.
With reference to the declaration adopted on 23 June 2010, I would just like to point out that specific reference was made to uploaded data, not to the downloading of material from websites.
I count also on the Member States and the European Parliament to have a final text that will be essential to fight these crimes and I would like to draw your attention again to the principle of proportionality, which I think connects with the latest question on this matter.
We now come to Question 17 by Ms Matera, who is sitting in position 666.
There are now five million young people under the age of 25 who cannot find a job.
At the same time, demand for highly qualified people is projected to rise by almost 16 million and demand for people with medium-level qualifications by more than 3.5 million.
This represents a big employment opportunity for young people and we must make sure that young people can take full advantage of it.
The Commission encourages the introduction of a youth guarantee to ensure that all young people are in a job, further education or activation measures within four months of leaving school.
Your first EURES job will promote youth labour mobility and the European Vacancy Monitor will allow young people and job counsellors to see where there are jobs across the Union and what skills are needed.
In view of the global economic situation and the crisis, which has made conditions on the labour market much worse, affecting the most vulnerable group, namely young people, I would ask the Commissioner to give his verdict on the need for more emphasis to be given to European instruments such as the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which we need in order to retrain workers made redundant for reasons associated with the economic crisis and, hence, also as a result of globalisation. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I have listened to your reply to my honourable friend's question, but I should like to bring your attention to the following, to what is happening on the ground.
The figures for the unemployed in Greece in 2009 were 20% for young unemployed men and 34% for young unemployed women.
The first question is to Mrs Reding.
Children are children for a very short space of time and women can contribute at all age levels.
The problem is not children - in fact, what is a problem is that we need more children in the European Union.
I would like to ask you to consider some comprehensive programmes and even tighter controls on Member States regarding childcare facilities.
That is also why businesses now have a big chance to make it unnecessary for me to intervene, because if they do things right, we do not need to intervene.
Vice-President of the Commission. - When I became Commissioner, I saw that a great deal had been done in the past on questions of security and very little had been done on questions of rights.
Here, the Commission has already submitted a model as an annex to the directive in all the EU languages.
It is also a question of criminal proceedings, for example, in the case of an illegal immigrant charged with a criminal offence being brought before a court.
The largest groups affected are people travelling to another Member State, such as tourists for instance, or people who live in another Member State but who do not speak the language of that country.
You are taken to the police, you are taken to court and you have no idea what you are being accused of.
Member of the Commission. - The Helsinki European Council of December 1999 granted Turkey the status of candidate country and accession negotiations with Turkey were opened in October 2005.
On 9 November, the Commission published the 2010 progress report on Turkey.
The constitutional amendments adopted by referendum on 12 September created the conditions for progress in a number of areas such as the judiciary, fundamental rights and public administration.
Important progress has been made on energy security with the ratification of the intergovernmental agreement on Nabucco, and on cooperation in the aviation sector with initialisation of the EU-Turkey horizontal aviation agreement.
I realise that there are difficulties but Question Time started 20 minutes late.
I shall take the two supplementaries and we will see where we get then. (GA) Mr President, we must recognise that Turkey, although a Muslim state, is very helpful to the West, especially as regards Kuwait, Iraq and NATO.
I do not think it reflects the importance of the country, and the commitment on both sides, to open just one chapter per Presidency, bearing in mind that we were unable to open a new chapter during this Presidency even though there has been a lot of progress, in particular, on Chapter 8 dealing with competition.
We have only three chapters to open in the time remaining - on competition, procurement and social policy - and these are not easy chapters.
Eight of them are being frozen, based on Commission recommendations, as a reaction to Turkey's non-implementation of the additional protocol, but there are other chapters which are being blocked by individual Member States.
I can say that today in Brussels, in the framework of the General First Council at ministerial level, we had a good discussion on the EU-Turkey relationship and the accession negotiations in terms of agreeing on the text of declarations.
The goal of this exercise is to go through all the 35 chapters, through all the opening and closing benchmarks, to make sure that Turkey not only aligns itself with the European Union acquis but also provides a track record of the implementation of that acquis.
This is exactly the process Turkey needs to go through before the question of whether it will succeed in becoming a member of the European Union is put on the table.
Subject: The rise of an increasingly virulent form of nationalism in Albania and its prospects of EU accession For a very long time, the main feature of political life in Albania has been the extreme fragility of its government.
This should prepare countries to manage future cross-border programmes under the European territorial cooperation objectives of the European Union Structural Funds.
The results have so far been very positive.
The Commission might consider funding such projects under component one for Serbia - which is institution building - and component three for Croatia - which falls under regional development - if the respective authorities in Croatia and Serbia so request.
It is very much in the interests of both countries that they continue their cooperation and overcome any nationalist and extremist ideas which have been at the root of much misfortune suffered by the whole region in the past.
That really would be extremely important for the whole region. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I have listened very carefully to your reply and I thank you for it, as regards the specific events.
I will stop here and will provide a written reply on the current work of the Commission and the Member States on the joint interim plan about which I will be talking to you and your colleagues from Euronest tomorrow, as well as the work on the mandate on the readmission agreement, the visa facilitation agreement and also additional information which would answer your question.
Mr Paleckis, I felt it was important to get your comments on Belarus on the record, given the ongoing election.
