Madam President, Mrs Győri, Mr Dalli, ladies and gentlemen, I have been involved in many negotiation processes here in Parliament, but the 12 hours of this conciliation procedure, which lasted from 19:00 to 07:00 the next morning, will remain in my memory for a long time.
Madam President, I would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to my fellow Members in this House and in the delegation for the universal support I received in the negotiations, right until the end.
The document clearly stated that 'The bans [on] food from cloned animals and [...] food from offspring of clones could be justified on the basis of the consumers' ethical considerations'. (NL) I would like the Council to tell me whether all the Member States knew about this document.
In my view, regulation must be brought forward very quickly now.
I am in no doubt about the will of Commissioner Dalli to clarify this matter and to find the right solutions to the countless issues that remain unresolved.
This was our chance to have an agreement.
Please learn the lessons, listen to what this institution has to say on the issue, and come back to us with a decent proposal. (DE) Madam President, Mr Dalli, ladies and gentlemen, I also very much regret the fact that the negotiations have failed, in particular, because we will now have to wait for years until we have rules governing, for example, nanotechnology in foods and products from third countries which are currently unknown in Europe.
We should not attempt to slow down or even prevent certain developments by means of legislation. (RO) Madam President, I would like to begin by saying how disappointed I am in the failure of conciliation.
I am confident that Member States will focus greater attention on the legitimate concerns of the European Union's citizens. (IT) Madam President, I agree with everything that the Members who have spoken before me have said.
As the negotiations went on, there were feelings of hope, disappointment and even rage, if I may say so, because we were there representing over 500 million people, the vast majority of whom - according to all the surveys and research - keep crying out that they do not want food from cloned animals or their offspring on their tables.
We must insist on a regulation being introduced which covers the descendants of cloned animals, otherwise the whole thing will be fundamentally ineffective. (SK) Madam President, I do not want to point fingers, but I think that the failure of the conciliation procedure is a setback and we have thrown out the baby with the bathwater.
I therefore believe there must be total traceability for consumers, especially for natural products, for which we already find it difficult to guarantee traceability. (EL) Madam President, I believe that this entire issue has arisen due to a lack of information for consumers and the public.
That was our position.
I am pleased that Commissioner Dalli promised that there will be a new, separate draft on cloning and the subject of cloned products soon.
I therefore call on Commissioner Dalli - who I know is very willing - to table a Commission proposal incorporating our positions as soon as possible, so as to allow this House to approve the regulation on cloning.
This is substantial, 360 degree unity.
Several times in the debate, the position of Commissioner De Gucht has been mentioned.
Mrs Lepage asked Commissioner Dalli whether he was aware of the Council's legal advice.
