Experts estimate that there will be a global shortfall of 40 000 tonnes of rare earth elements in 2014.
We must skilfully use the resources we already have and which have been abandoned unnecessarily.
There are several questions at least which should be put to the European Commission in the context of the communication on raw materials.
Moreover, as I said during the previous debate, in June, I will travel to Brazil, Argentina and Chile to initiate diplomatic action with those Latin American countries as well.
This is why we have updated the implementing rules of Natura 2000, in agreement with Commissioner Potočnik.
The third pillar concerns recycling and the efficient use of resources.
I would repeat what I said during the previous debate: as part of our innovation policy, we are planning a series of innovation partnerships in various sectors, one of these being the raw materials sector.
One of the innovation partnerships will concentrate, in particular, on activities that we can carry out in the raw materials recycling and substitution sector.
I have already told you about our relations with Russia and Latin America.
Work on clarifying this is already in progress.
The EU ought to invest a great deal in research and development.
Many companies have already been doing this for some time, including Rhodia, BASF, Osram and many others.
Around 97% of the global supply is extracted in China, which is crucially important, since China has been reducing extraction and exports since 2006.
This is a very serious problem relating to the monopoly on the extraction of these raw materials.
China is also interested in investing in high-tech production facilities for processing REEs, because it does not just want to be a supplier of raw materials.
The European Union is dependent almost entirely on rare earth element imports, with 97% of their global production being concentrated in China.
The European Union should focus its efforts on streamlining the processes for using and recycling rare earth elements and on research targeted at replacing critical raw materials with other less critical materials.
Finally, through our partnerships with developing countries, the EU must help prevent the looting of the rare earth elements belonging to those countries. (Applause) (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, the situation is clear: the EU needs to secure its supply of rare earth elements, but we face increasingly tough competition in this market.
If we do not have a strong economy, we will be irrelevant politically. (LT) Madam President, the issue of raw materials is inseparable from the European Union's growth and economic progress.
We can therefore congratulate the Commission for the raw materials strategy.
This could ensure a leading role for Europe in this area and would make a major contribution to the implementation of the goals set out in the Europe 2020 strategy. (PT) Madam President, this debate on the difficulty of accessing commodities, such as rare earth elements, is intrinsically linked to the current state of development of the world economy and the systemic crisis in which we are immersed.
The foreign-exchange and trade wars that we have been witnessing are worrying symptoms, but not isolated ones.
I would therefore like to ask you, Commissioner, to do your utmost to ensure that chemistry remains a place for young talent in Europe. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we could import raw materials, but we should be conserving them, instead.
That is very important.
When I say specific measures, I mean the preparation of a list of 14 rare raw materials on which action is needed - a list which, unfortunately, I fear will have to be extended.
The decision to create an innovation partnership linked to an action that will see the private sector - and, I hope, also Parliament and the other institutions - participating in innovation and research with the aim of identifying robust recycling and substitution measures yielding real results is not just an announcement, but a specific measure on the part of the European Commission.
With regard to certain locations in Europe where it is possible to check whether raw materials are present in the subsoil - I am thinking of Greenland, the Barents Sea and other locations in northern Europe - we need to check whether extraction activities are possible and whether they are economically viable.
Commissioner De Gucht is responsible for the commercial part.
However, with regard to the action at the WTO, for which Commissioner De Gucht is responsible - as I have said during my speech - we have initiated a procedure with Mexico and the United States regarding nine raw materials, which do not include rare earths.
We are evaluating the situation precisely in order to identify the most suitable instruments in this area.
Legislation is already being drafted, and Commissioner Potočnik intends to continue to work along these lines.
One need only think, for example, that up to 350 grams of gold could be extracted from one tonne of mobile phones, if they are recycled correctly.
EU industry is entirely dependent on imports of rare earth elements from China, which has a virtual monopoly in this area, since it controls 97% of global production.
