North Caucasus, in particular the case of Oleg Orlov The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on North Caucasus, in particular the case of Oleg Orlov.
author. - Mr President, I would like to say that this resolution on the situation in the North Caucasus, and in particular on the case of Oleg Orlov, is one of the most deserving resolutions this House has adopted for a long time.
At least 17 people were injured, most of them civilians.
On 9 September, 17 people were killed and many others wounded in a bombing in Vladikavkaz, the capital of North Ossetia.
The EU should seek now to cooperate with the Council of Europe on the excellent report produced by Dick Marty on legal remedies for human rights violations in the North Caucasus.
author. - Mr President, today President Buzek announced the winner of this year's Sakharov Prize.
In response to the Nobel Peace Prize award, President Buzek called firmly on China to release Liu Xiao Bo and said: 'Freedom is not a threat, but the threats to freedom can be many'.
Last year's Sakharov Prize awardees Oleg Orlov, Sergei Kovalev and Lyudmila Alexeyeva, of Memorial, have not been able to pick up their award personally as their freedom is threatened.
The absence of the rule of law has led to 20 000 cases pending at the European Court of Human Rights from the Russian Federation.
Russia has the right to fight terrorism in the Northern Caucasus, but if the rule of law is not upheld this has a counter-productive effect on stability.
author. - (FI) Mr President, I am very concerned about the growing climate of fear that surrounds human rights defenders in Russia.
Adopting this statement is a clear and consistent show of support for Orlov, as it is too for all the others who struggle in the name of human rights.
It was symbolic because it came a few months after the murder of Natalia Estemirova, a murder that Mr Orlov strongly condemned.
On 6 July Mr Orlov was charged once again, and he is now facing a three-year prison term.
The human rights organisation Memorial plays a central role in this respect.
The violations of human rights are destabilising the situation in the North Caucasus, are prolonging the conflict, are reducing the chances for its resolution and are, in fact, creating support for underground terrorist activity.
We are talking, today, about the continued persecution to which Oleg Orlov is being subjected because he is courageously demanding explanations for all the circumstances of the death of Natalia Estemirova, who was the head of Memorial in Chechnya.
Therefore, I appeal to all the authorities of the European Union, including the Commission and the Council, to put pressure on President Medvedev to curb this kind of persecution in Chechnya. (RO) Acts of violence or terrorism are almost an everyday occurrence in the republics in the North Caucasus.
Fifteen years after the outbreak of the wars in Chechnya, there are still 80 000 displaced persons in the region.
He could face three years in prison after he accused the president of Chechnya of involvement in the murder of Natalia Estemirova in 2009.
Without adopting a position on to what extent it is about a war of liberation, a war against terrorism or something else, we cannot deny the fact that there are almost 100 000 internal refugees in the region and a very poor situation with respect to human rights.
The human rights activists to whom we awarded the Sakharov Prize last year are a force to be reckoned with in Memorial, which has a significant role in the North Caucasus.
Natalya Estemirova, who was murdered last year, revealed the fact that the security services had been involved in acts of violence and executions, in Chechnya too.
The report prepared in June 2010 by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe publishes information about further cases of human rights violations in the North Caucasus.
Investigations into human rights violations are ineffective and defective.
The conviction for slandering the Chechen President and the trial initiated against Oleg Orlov, who could now face years in prison, mark the horrible culmination of a depressing series of acts of persecution against human rights activists, including the most terrible one involving the abduction and murder of Natalia Estemirova, Memorial's coordinator in Chechnya.
The bottom line in the North Caucasus is the strong external interference of Wahhabis who are trained, who are armed and who are moving in with clear objectives.
While the anti-terrorist operation in Chechnya was officially declared over last year, violence and the climate of impunity continue there, but even more so in neighbouring Dagestan and also in Ingushetia.
The libel cases against Oleg Orlov, the head of the Memorial Human Rights Centre and the chairwoman of the Moscow Helsinki Group, Lyudmilla Alekseeva, should be seen in this context of intimidation.
President Medvedev has spoken out against what he has termed the legal nihilism prevailing in Russia.
The increase in violence and disappearances of human rights activists and political opponents in the North Caucasus region since 2009 is worrying.
I urge the Russian authorities to heighten protection for human rights defenders, including those working for Memorial.
The fruit of these activities is the joint German-Russian Nord Stream gas pipeline project and the offer to include Russia in the European security system proposed by Nicolas Sarkozy.
It appears that in the euphoria of new economic agreements, EU decision makers have quickly forgotten the cases of Anna Politkovskaya and Natalia Estemirova.
Its members are protesting in defence of the freedom to gather, assemble and hold marches and pickets guaranteed under Article 31 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation.
