European integration process of Montenegro (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the European integration process of Montenegro.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you will be voting on the resolution on the European integration process of Montenegro tomorrow.
The resolution you will be adopting tomorrow also confirms the realisation of this responsibility.
In line with the renewed enlargement consensus approved by the European Council, the Council confirmed in its conclusions of 14 December 2010 that the EU firmly supports the continuation of the enlargement process in the Western Balkans countries on the basis of the principles and conclusions adopted.
In order for any subsequent step to be taken in the stabilisation and association process in general, and specifically in the commencement of the accession negotiations, it is very important for Montenegro to make progress in these areas and also to make further efforts.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, it is an honour for me to address the European Parliament on the European integration process of Montenegro.
On 17 February, after public consultations with civil society and talks with the Commission services, the government adopted an action plan to address the priorities.
The future of Montenegro undeniably lies in the European Union and we should act responsibly.
The credibility of our enlargement policy is based on the enlargement countries respecting the conditionality towards the European Union and the European Union respecting its commitment towards the enlargement countries.
In particular, the Montenegrin Government needs to address the seven key priorities identified by Commissioner Füle in the Commission's opinion.
I would like, in particular, to emphasise the fact that I have a very positive view of the European Council's decision of December 2010 to grant Montenegro candidate status with the prospect of EU membership.
It is clear that the reform process must continue, for example, within the judiciary and with regard to combating conflicts of interest in public administration, and that the priorities recommended by the Commission must be dealt with, but I would nevertheless like to praise the government of Montenegro for the positive reforms that it has succeeded in implementing so far.
If, by adopting the resolution on Montenegro, we wish to renew, in principle, the commitment towards continuation of the process of European Union enlargement and towards enabling all the states of our continent to develop under the aegis of Union membership, then we first need to ensure fulfilment of the following steps, first of all for Montenegro, and then also for Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, not forgetting Turkey of course.
Freedom of expression, media independence and protection of minorities are all values which any candidate for membership in the European Union must unconditionally respect.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, I would also like to thank our colleague, Charles Tannock, for a very good and well-balanced report and I am glad we found consensus here in regretting the decoupling of the candidate status for Montenegro from opening the negotiations.
In the fight against corruption and organised crime, I am glad that in this report, we also demand from the state authorities that they refrain from pressurising NGOs and civil society organisations that investigate corruption and organised crime.
The determination of both élites and public opinion to offer a European future is probably the single most important factor ensuring Montenegro's eventual accession to the EU. (SK) Madam President, progress in the European integration process is one of the fundamental factors contributing to the further development of Montenegro.
However, we must bring more pressure to bear, especially in the area of strengthening the rule of law - including reforms to the judiciary - and it is also essential to continue the ongoing effort in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
The European Commission's seven key priorities are clear and I would suggest that Prime Minister Igor Lukšić's government addresses them in a determined fashion and in this way opens negotiations on Montenegro's full membership.
I hope that our Montenegrin friends will solve this problem as well. (PL) Madam President, I would like to start by congratulating Montenegro on achieving the status of candidate country for accession to the European Union in December 2010.
The political dialogue between this country and the EU institutions is at a very advanced stage, despite the fact that it has not been going on for long.
I encourage Montenegro to continue its constructive engagement in regional cooperation and in strengthening bilateral relations with neighbouring countries. (SK) Madam President, last week's visit by Commissioner Füle shows that the commitment of the Montenegrin Government to European integration is genuine and is the best path for a country that is moving towards the European Union.
The social and political changes that have taken place in Montenegro in recent years are a positive sign not only for the EU, but also for the country's neighbours.
I therefore personally consider Montenegro's efforts enormously important, and I fully support the assistance and aid which the EU is providing to the country, and I believe that this country will join the EU in the near future. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although some excellent results have been achieved so far on the road towards European integration, there remain some gaps in fundamental areas for the development of a democratic system and full confirmation of the rule of law.
It is important that the next country report is positive and allows accession negotiations to actually begin.
There have been multiple mentions and questions as to what happens in the time between the granting of candidate status and the commencement of the accession negotiations, that is, why we are not beginning the negotiations immediately, without delay.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 9 March 2011.
