Preparation of the Eurozone summit of 11 March 2011 (debate) The next item is a statement by the President of the Commission on the preparation of the Eurozone summit of 11 March 2011 (2011/2615/RSP)).
This is such an important and urgent matter that I should first of all like to tell you that the College has just approved the Commission's contribution to assist the countries south of the Mediterranean in their transition process and to breathe new life into our relations with our Mediterranean neighbours.
We cannot countenance any ambiguity on the part of the European Union.
However, Europe must stand shoulder to shoulder with those who aspire to political freedom and social justice.
Honourable Members, I would now like to turn to the other meeting to be held on Friday 11 March, the informal summit of Member States in the euro area.
This is the reason why the Member States, in the conclusions of the work of the task force, presided over by the President of the European Council, arrived at a very broad consensus on the proposals presented by the Commission on strengthening economic governance - proposals that are currently under discussion here in Parliament and in the Council.
It is true that whilst the economies within the European Union are indeed extremely interdependent, those of the euro area are particularly so.
Gaps in competitiveness are a genuine problem for those countries which share the same currency.
Their competitiveness and the convergence of their economies are essential in ensuring the viability of a strong and stable euro area, which will be to the benefit of the entire European Union.
Having said that, we must recognise that this idea has raised a number of concerns: fear of a two-speed Europe (the euro area and the others), the danger of losing sight of certain aspects of the economic recovery that are just as important as competitiveness, and also possibly the calling into question of the Community approach.
These are all legitimate questions and we must respond to them unequivocally.
This is a question of mutual confidence and credibility.
Honourable Members, I was also a little surprised to have to point out, at the last European Council on 4 February, that any specific initiative for competitiveness and for the euro area had, quite obviously, to be in accordance with the Treaty.
The first principle is that this pact must be carried out under the conditions laid down in the Treaty and within the existing system of economic governance.
This is essential in order to guarantee objectivity and independence in monitoring the efforts of Member States, the integrity of the single market and of all the acquis communautaire, and the clearance between the initiatives taken in the euro area and those pursued in the European Union as a whole.
I will also insist on the role of the European Parliament in monitoring the convergence and competitiveness pact because the Commission, of course, will fully inform the European Parliament.
The pact must also remain open to other Member States which might wish to take part in it and that are not members of the euro area.
To justify such a pact - which involves national measures - it must contribute added value to what has already been laid down in the context of economic governance proposals put forward.
I would remind you that under Article 121 of the Treaty, Member States must coordinate their national economic policies.
Such a pact must also take care not to affect adversely the integrity of the single market and should even help to enhance it.
In addition, it must respect social dialogue and link measures on competitiveness to our central goals, which are growth and jobs, exactly as we have stated in the Europe 2020 agenda.
It is therefore important to ensure that this pact delivers real added value and does not take us away from the essential goals of growth and employment.
Progress must be made in all the other areas of our response, that is to say, in enhancing the effective financing capacity of the existing European Financial Stability Fund and broadening its scope, in preparing the establishment of a permanent mechanism as from 2013 and in implementing over the coming months tighter stress tests for banks.
From the terrorist attack of 11 September, we learnt that we had to strike a new balance between security and freedom.
From this financial crisis, the lesson we must learn is for our Member States to stop treating as a taboo subject any cooperation in the budgetary, fiscal and social fields.
However, we must go even further still and ensure that both Parliament and the Commission exercise all the prerogatives that they enjoy in this respect, and in this, we are counting on the President of the Commission.
The third lesson is that Europe must provide itself with a European stability mechanism to protect our social market economy.
The fourth and final lesson is that even in a storm, Europe is standing firm and European integration is becoming stronger.
For our part, now is the time to consolidate our economy and our competitiveness.
It was good because you have revealed the lack of social balance in these proposals.
I am sometimes a little surprised: Germany with its Chancellor, like President Sarkozy, France's prince of the opinion polls, is demanding measures that Germany itself has never taken in this form.
Madam President, I am sure that your party in Germany will also support this pact, so that we have also gained ground here.
What we need is a Community act, an initiative at the level of the European Union, and not a pact between Member States, which is, by its very nature, an intergovernmental pact.
Intergovernmentalism has never worked within the European Union.
Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy's competitiveness pact comprises six specific measures.
Therefore, what we need are not six specific measures in an intergovernmental pact, which will never come into being or work.
I saw the paper of 25 February that you prepared with the President of the Council.
Finally, and this is my last point, I also think that it is time, Mr Barroso, to present, at the earliest possible opportunity, an initiative on a crisis mechanism for banks, not at national level, as stated, but at European level.
You have the right to do so as you are, in effect, the guarantor of competition rules within the European Union and you are in a position to suggest such an initiative.
The country must also be in a position to make investments.
I am annoyed by the fact that, in advance of this week's meeting of the European Council and in statements relating to the Council meeting in 14 days' time, we are hearing from Germany that it will not be prepared to discuss conditions for Greece or for necessary changes.
If we really were to establish this 'closed shop' proposed in the competitiveness pact as contrived by a small number of Heads of Government, we will lose the debate about trust in the European Union.
These are now core suggestions under the competitiveness pact.
Under the economic governance package, Member States will have to be more transparent with their own budgets.
After all, even countries like Germany find this very difficult.
We are prepared to discuss the concept of coordinated European economic governance with you provided that this economic governance is worthy of the name, in other words, that it is democratic in structure and that it will help establish a sustainable, socially responsible European community.
If we do, the next debt crisis will not be in a country, but will be a debt crisis of the European Central Bank itself. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Madam President, I am assuming that you will not know the answer, Mr Farage, but I have question for you.
We have got some things right and some things wrong, just as your country, Germany, has.
You have picked up that gauntlet, together with President Van Rompuy.
That is why it is so important to link things together, because there is some overlap.
In this House, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled 2 000 amendments and, if we look at this, we will find almost all the matters covered by the competitiveness pact reflected in those amendments.
Moreover, President Barroso, are you going to use our right of initiative actively, to establish a link between the competitiveness pact and the legislative package?
If you fail to do that, then this House will pick up that gauntlet itself, in its role as colegislator. (PT) Madam President, I come from a country that has existed for eight centuries and, despite this, is interested in the existence in this globalised world of a strong Europe and a Europe that is capable of dealing with China, India and the United States on equal terms.
The crisis that we are living through is not a crisis in the euro area: it is, as someone was saying, a crisis of the euro area.
The first word is 'respect': it was not this Parliament that made the European Parliament colegislator with regard to economic governance.
The third and final question is how do you think we will get back to a situation of trust when all monetary policy decisions - and the last obvious ones by the European Central Bank - continue to damage the most vulnerable countries by mortgaging growth? (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot but endorse what has just been said by Mrs Goulard on the basic presuppositions that mean that while we are well aware of the need for effectiveness and speed in the decision-making process, it is essential for Parliament to be involved.
I would like to raise one very specific point.
The competitiveness pact and its evolution is a case in point.
We already have a richer tapestry of ideas in our amendments to the economic governance package, so we will have little difficulty in moving into codecision to merge the outcomes of the positions that we take in Parliament and Council.
It is about the external competitiveness that a large single market can generate, so it is intimately mixed with the recovery side of economic governance.
We also need a permanent financial stability mechanism capable of evolving over time, subject to governance and priorities.
The European Parliament has also already taken clear positions in a number of reports on the issue of the euro and the need for stability, as well as on the problem of growth.
The single market includes 27 Member States, as does the challenge of competitiveness.
It is made all the worse by the fact that the European Parliament will have nothing to say on these matters and that it was possible to fall back on Article 136 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Mr Barroso, you said that growth must be distributed more fairly.
What I can tell you, obviously, is that recourse to the EFSF and to International Monetary Fund aid was seen to be a last resort: ultima ratio.
Therefore, if a country is able, it should be avoided.
What I can tell you is that the Commission has been doing everything in its power to suggest greater ambition.
I have reported to you, in complete transparency, the Commission's efforts to make this idea regarding the impact of competitiveness useful and create added value, either in respect of growth and employment - which, as I have already said, remain a priority for the Commission - or even to strengthen the system of governance.
I can guarantee to you once again that the Commission would not hesitate to resort to all the means at its disposal if we were to believe that any principles or rules of the Treaty were being compromised by decisions taken either by the European Council, or by any other institution.
We must avoid disappointment, or purely division, whether within the euro area, or even throughout the European Union.
The Commission is currently telling governments that it must retain a central role in this competitiveness pact, not out of institutional loyalty, not out of institutional egotism, but because I believe, needless to say, that the Commission, along with the Community approach, are a guarantee if we want to avoid divisions between the euro area and the rest of Europe.
I think that, from this point of view, the debate has been very useful.
President Buzek passed it on the last time he was at the European Council.
I think that on essential matters, both the Commission and Parliament will be firm in the defence of the Community approach, convinced that this is the only way for Europe to achieve the objectives we have set for ourselves in the euro area, for stability and also for growth and employment throughout the Union.
In this drama, as usual, there is no shortage of main characters, secondary characters and mere extras.
