Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, I am grateful for the opportunity to have today's debate on the Middle East peace process and I am extremely interested to hear from honourable Members on this.
I believe that achieving progress on the peace process is very urgent and very important.
As we have discussed in this House earlier today, our Southern Neighbourhood and the wider Middle East are changing fast.
This is the message which I have delivered in my visits to the region in January and in February and in my discussions with President Abbas and Prime Minister Netanyahu: for the greater security of both peoples, an agreement should be found.
If there is to be genuine peace, there has to be a solution to the status of Jerusalem as the future capital of two states, with the state of Israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable state of Palestine living side by side in peace and security.
I chaired the Quartet meeting in Munich on 5 February.
The envoys are now moving to prepare the next principal meetings when Ban Ki-moon, the Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov, Secretary Clinton and I will meet again.
On 13 April, I will host the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee led by Norway; we are in discussion on the possibilities of a donor conference in June.
Honourable Members will know that on 22 February, there was a useful and productive exchange of views with Israel at the Association Council, where the Middle East peace process was discussed, along with other regional issues, particularly, of course, the changes occurring in the region.
As I said, I believe that this is in the interest of both peoples in that region and I believe Prime Minister Netanyahu has a vital role in helping to get the talks moving.
I believe all of us in this House share the desire to see this conflict finally end and both parties find a solution for the stability of the people of Israel and for the people of Palestine, which will also help enhance the stability and security of the region.
Secondly, how do you view the decision taken by the Palestinian National Authority to hold presidential and legislative elections before September and Hamas's decision not to take part in these elections?
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, we have spoken about it all day long: the tremendous hope that has emerged following the revolutions in the Arab world shows us that democracy is something that we all aspire to, and that there is nothing exclusive about it.
I do not think so, and what is more, I believe that this is a political mistake in the light of the revolutions taking place today in the Arab world.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Madam High Representative, on behalf of my group, I would like to start by saying that we could not agree more with your introduction, with the aims you have put forward, and with the efforts you are making to re-instil life into what you yourself called the 'stalled' peace process.
He urged us, on the one hand, not to constantly focus on what is happening in the Occupied Palestinian Territories and, on the other, rather to re-orient our focus on what we could do together, Israel and the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to thank Baroness Ashton for her speech, in which I am a little disappointed.
The siege of Gaza is certainly not over, and unfortunately, Baroness Ashton only mentioned Kerem Shalom instead of talking about openness towards all parties.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, Baroness Ashton, I am deeply concerned about the progress of the situation in Iraq.
There is now an indication that Ayad Allawi, whose al-Iraqiya Party won the election last March, is going to withdraw from the coalition because Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has defaulted on the many promises that he made to al-Iraqiya in the coalition deal.
If that happens, we are going to be back to square one, with a sectarian government, backed by both al-Hakim and Muqtada al-Sadr at the behest of Tehran, and we will have a destabilised situation where the party who won the election is no longer in government.
Even if, in the Arab conflict, the European Union has again failed to send out a strong political message, it has, nonetheless, supported the government of President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad over the last two or three years and, as such, they have been able to construct the necessary institutions so that, by next September, Prime Minister Fayyad will be in a position to ask the UN to recognise the independent state of Palestine and I hope that, when it does, the European Union will support that request.
I hope that you persistently continue to strive to re-unite father and son as soon as possible. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the Arab world is in the grip of profound change.
People are fighting for their dignity; they wish to live in liberty, in a democracy and under the rule of law, as we do.
I was in Cairo last weekend and met many young people there in Tahrir Square.
Egypt and other Arab countries now have the opportunity of democratic development.
This is also an opportunity for Israel, for it not to remain the only democracy in the Middle East besides Lebanon.
The change taking place in Arabia must be seized as an opportunity for peace between Israel and Palestine.
I hope that we can approach both problems in such a way that we can finally arrive at sensible, constructive peace talks in the Middle East. (DE) Mr President, the contrast is striking!
It is merely that these changes have not yet come to an end.
Settlement building must stop, that is clear in any case, as must the sophistry with which it is defended.
Connected to the uprising in the Arab world, we also have experienced protests against the Hamas regime in the Gaza Strip.
On 22 February, the Union actually upgraded its association agreement with Israel, promising to step up cooperation in several apparently technical agreements in various areas: competition, access to public contracts, Israel's integration into the European Research Area and into European agencies such as Europol, the European Space Agency and so on.
On 31 January, the Commission authorised the transfer of EU citizens' personal data to Israel, a country suspected of having used EU citizens' passports to carry out an extrajudicial killing in Dubai last year.
Israel, which already participates in more than 800 projects with European universities and businesses, will receive more than EUR 500 million in subsidies in 2013.
I can also fully agree with the High Representative that these events, rather than being a distraction, demand a refocusing of our attention on the peace process.
I led a parliamentary delegation to Gaza and the West Bank in December 2010.
We must support the efforts of President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad to peacefully lead the Palestinian people to a Palestinian state.
I appeal to David Cameron to see sense and reprieve both the carrier HMS Ark Royal, and at least a minimum number of Harriers.
During the Falklands crisis, Mrs Thatcher successfully reprieved the Ark's sister ship, HMS Invincible.
We must do the same for the Ark Royal. (RO) Mr President, I would like to begin by mentioning the very sceptical, pessimistic voices which have recently expressed the view, since the uprisings in the Mediterranean region, that the Middle East peace process is in danger of becoming a kind of collateral victim.
In order to implement the two-state solution and promote the cause of a global Arab-Israeli peace, I believe that we need, once again, to bring both sides to the negotiating table and, in this regard, the Quartet's initiative of consulting with the Israeli and Palestinian negotiators separately marks a first step.
However, we must take care that the changes taking place do not lead to a review of the commitments made previously by some of the countries in the region in relation to Israel. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Mediterranean has made a dramatic return to the global political agenda and Europe has found out that it is very weak indeed.
Baroness Ashton, Europe must help Israel and the Palestinians to restart negotiations on the basis of proposals that are now supported by both the Council and Parliament.
Therefore, the time has come for Europe to force a dialogue, to open real negotiations and to launch a genuine peace process with a view to finding a lasting solution that sees the two nations living side by side in peace.
I should therefore like it if you could shed some light on this matter for us, Baroness Ashton. (PL) Mr President, as a Member of the European Parliament, I have had the opportunity to visit several countries in the Middle East in the last few months, including Syria, the Palestinian Authority and Israel.
One of the region's leaders told me: 'Please tell Europe's leaders to be more strongly involved, because if this involvement achieves success, it will be a political success of the kind for which the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded'.
However, speaking in all seriousness, all leaders said the same to me: the European Union must be more strongly involved in the Middle East process.
For example, the United States is affected by certain political restrictions, while, on the other hand, our involvement must include cooperation with a partner such as the United States, if only because of the strategic relations of the United States with Israel.
It was said that the Union does not have a common policy because the Member States have very different attitudes to the parties in the conflict and the ways of resolving these problems.
I appeal for us to examine our policy on the Middle East and on Eastern Europe and to learn lessons from these experiences which can then be used when building the new policy towards the countries of the Mediterranean.
It has helped civil society in the Middle East.
Let us, then, make use of this experience when building the new policy. (IT) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve peace, all parties first need to take on some commitments, beginning with the recognition of Israel to all effects - which is still not the case in some countries - and therefore, all countries in the area need to offer basic, essential guarantees in order to establish relations built on mutual respect.
Baroness Ashton, do you not believe that we have a new opportunity, since the global platform for human rights is now much higher and the threshold of tolerance in the Middle East for clear violations of international law and human rights, such as Gaza and the settlements, is much lower?
I welcome the commitment by the military government in Egypt to honour the 1979 peace treaty with Israel.
Therefore, I wish the High Representative every success in this diplomatic minefield which lies ahead. (SK) Mr President, the Middle East peace process is, in my opinion, going through an endurance test at the moment.
However, we must, at the same time, carefully attempt, through close engagement with the Arab world, and particularly with countries that are now deciding on their future orientation, to support decent, democratic political forces that will be capable of resolving any disputes peacefully, in a businesslike manner, and without prejudice and hatred.
I have worked really hard in the course of this year to change that, not least on the ground, and I will say more about that in a moment.
I want to begin with you, Mr Salafranca, because you asked me about some very specific points.
We began with the issue of the veto of the Security Council by the United States - the 14 to 1 vote on the settlements proposal, the resolution that was put forward by Lebanon on the day, because they are part of the Security Council - which, as you know, created a huge amount of what we might call noise in the system and beyond.
Our proposals have been the 1967 borders with appropriate swapping of territory, which is for the parties to agree and not for us to say, but I am sure that would take into account the reality of people's lives and where they live.
You will also know - and you will have seen it - that Prime Minister Fayyad is busy looking at the possibilities for some sort of reconciliation.
Progress in the association agreement remains dependent upon progress in the Middle East peace process.
This could be a really important part of a secure, stable region.
When I talked about Gaza and Kerem Shalom, I really was not trying to suggest that there is only one crossing.
We did a complete piece of work on looking at the whole of the infrastructure on the crossings because, when I went into Gaza and met with businesses, particularly, but also in talking to the young people - and I went to the summer schools last year which we fund - it did seem to me that one of the most important issues for Gaza was to get the economy moving as quickly as possible.
Thirdly, we could also train the Palestinian people as part of our mission.
So that is my particular reference for Kerem Shalom.
We looked at Karni.
I do not have the power to do some things, but what we can do is use our economic and political muscle - in the best sense of that word - to be able to try and support this process going forward.
Ms Dodds asked whether the neighbourhood policy had failed.
I thank Marc Otte for his contribution.
Once Helga Schmid has finished this piece of work and we see where we going, I will then look to see what we should do for the future to make sure that we are properly represented in the region.
Written statements (Rule 149) The situation in the Middle East and the Mediterranean region is at a particularly delicate juncture, as the High Representative has also mentioned in her speech.
The Arab revolutions have generated a climate of instability in the Mediterranean region, which has a particular effect on Israel.
Recently, due to such security risks, the step was taken to close a border point, leaving Kerem Shalom as the only commercial crossing which is completely secure.
The revolutions in the Arab world must not divert our attention from the Middle East peace process.
