That is why we believe we should also solve this, bearing in mind the importance of transatlantic relations.
Of course, these transatlantic relations are critically important, but this does not mean that we should not stick to our principles of privacy and data protection.
So I also believe that from a broader political point of view, it is important that we come to an agreement on this matter with our American partners.
Just today, Commissioner Malmström informed us about the final outcome of those negotiations.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, thank you for your kind descriptions of your debate.
Personally, I do not believe that this is a very pertinent decision, because it is not a matter of pitting the euro area against the European Union.
In fact, we have the solution for the euro area and for the whole of the European Union.
Article 136 of the Treaty of Lisbon now offers us far greater opportunities to come up with proposals for the euro area, because it actually has special meaning within the euro area; more duties also means more rights, not only for those who share a currency, but also for the Union as a whole.
The European Council does, of course, give direction and impetus - this is laid down in Article 16 of the treaty - but, afterwards, it is up to the various institutions, to the Commission, within the scope of its powers, and also to the Council, within its various groups, to verify the implementation of policies.
I am anxious to tell you that the Commission is determined to play a full part in monitoring the entire process of the 2020 strategy.
Mr President, I would like to ask you to say once again whether you believe that the directive on environmental liability for sub sea oil and gas production is sufficient.
I would like to know whether you believe that the non-uniform, relatively low upper limits on liability are really what we need in the light of the catastrophe in the Gulf.
That is a decision that we have to take here in Europe.
I would therefore like to know what you are going to do - and specifically as regards the forthcoming Council meeting - to remind the Member States in particular of their commitments and to exert pressure on the EU to provide a clear, final picture at the UN conference in September and not to allow the individual Member States to repeatedly shirk their responsibilities in view of the growing crisis, when 1 billion people are currently living in poverty and hunger.
In fact, there is now a risk that, because of the budgetary constraints in some Member States, some commitments are not respected.
So it is question of credibility and accountability, also on our side.
I participated in the Gleneagles G8 summit several years ago and, in fact, the reality is that the most developed countries have not yet fulfilled all that they committed to do.
I remember, for instance, in the G8 in Japan, I proposed an additional EUR 1 billion for helping rural development in Africa and in other developing parts of the world, to come from the unspent money.
This is very much one of the sectors where we believe there is value added, where a euro spent at European level makes more sense than one spent at national level, because there is a European rationale for this kind of investment.
And now we have to engage with this in a serious, objective manner. (NL) Mr President.
President of the Commission. - The task force was created in the specific context of support for Greece and, as you know, the Commission is participating in the task force in a fully constructive and loyal way.
There is a consensus emerging on steps towards economic coordination in Europe, and most of those steps are completely in line with the proposals made by our communication of 12 May.
You spoke not long ago, Mr Barroso, about the necessity of defending the unity of the European Union and of maintaining EU integration within a framework of 27 Member States.
We have one Union, the European Union, with our institutions, with the 27 Member States today, and of course we fully respect the treaties.
We can, in the current framework, do more for economic coordination and clearance.
Article 121 is an implicit call for coordination by Member States.
This is the important point to understand.
The Stability and Growth Pact is in danger of becoming a stability pact only, if not in its intentions, then at least in the actions announced.
Growth is the most important point for the European Union economy.
This is the sensible line the Commission is proposing, and we believe that now a consensus is emerging along these lines. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing crisis has made it clear that the Union has no more time to lose.
I am therefore asking the President of the Commission whether he is dedicated to harmonising the Europe 2020 strategy with the existing common policies.
To have sustainable growth, we need of course to have sound economic governance in Europe, we have to respect the Stability and Growth Pact, and we need the credibility of sound public finances, but we also need new regulatory supervision for the financial market and we need to invest in our potential for growth.
Commission President, you have already cited Article 121 several times.
First of all, what we are doing now in the task force and indeed in the Commission - a communication on 12 May already mentioned this - is examining the possibility of reinforcing the Stability and Growth Pact, including by broadening the arsenal of incentives for compliance, as I prefer to call it.
We are looking at several ways and the Commission will put forward some legislative proposals on this. (ES) Mr President, Mr Barroso, I would like to hear you talk about unemployment when detailing the objectives of the task force on economic governance, because you have referred on numerous occasions to the strategy as a strategy for intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Moreover, it should be inclusive, above all, for the more than 20 million Europeans who feel excluded because they have been shut out of the labour market by the brutal crisis.
There are more than 20 million unemployed people who want clarification when we tell them that economic governance, stability and supervision - the economic and financial supervision package - will be reflected in a strategy that is directly aimed at getting all those people who have been personally affected by the outbreak of the crisis back to work, with ambitions of increased productivity and, hence, competitiveness.
In particular, I would like to hear you say how it will be reflected in the participation of those EU Member States that will be involved in this opportunity, which must not be squandered, and which must be relevant to the defining of new rules for global economic governance at the upcoming G20 meeting in Toronto.
