This document introduces fundamental changes to the convention, the principal aim being to bring its wording into line with other conventions at a regional level and with international instruments, and to incorporate modern concepts of fisheries management.
In 2008, a French version was produced, but the COM document, being the Commission's proposal on transposition into Community law, is dated 8 March 2010.
In the context of these newly acquired rights, the Committee on Fisheries and the European Parliament should be properly represented during any subsequent negotiations on future international conventions.
In 2007 and 2008, the European Parliament was not represented, for obvious reasons.
This meant that at the same time, it had to be adapted to the new situation, in particular, to Articles 290 and 291 of the treaty, relating to delegated acts and implementing acts.
I would like to thank Ms Fraga Estévez for her work on this report.
Under this convention, amendments normally become binding for us 80 days after adoption.
So we have 80 days to implement them.
As matters stand, measures adopted by the NEAFC last year will have been transposed by the time the package deal is finally adopted, but next month, NEAFC will most likely adopt new amendments requiring effective transposition into EU law early in 2011.
The Commission therefore considers this regulation to be without prejudice to any future position of the institution as regards the use of Articles 290 and 291 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the transposition of Regional Fisheries Management Organisation measures.
Their failure to comply with the law of the sea, the International Labour Organisation conventions and the IUU Regulation of 1 January 2010 means that European ship-owners are now uncompetitive due to the labour costs they have to bear.
This report also clarifies the scope of Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with regard to delegated acts.
We must therefore do all we can to strengthen the regional fisheries organisations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries established a very important organisation: the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation, or NAFO.
The EU must be better prepared to respond to new developments and to live up to international responsibilities.
Compliance mechanisms in an RFMO can lead to IUU vessels changing fishing grounds.
However, I really want to use this opportunity in the House to turn to fisheries agreements in a more general way and to stress the need for cooperation from all of those parties to these agreements.
It is vital that the stock is fished in a sustainable manner, and all parties should sign up to this.
Commissioner, I understand that you will assess the situation after the talks on 26 October, and I appreciate the firm stand you have decided to take.
The current dispute over mackerel - Scotland's most valuable fishery - which we have heard about from other speakers, has implications for all international negotiations.
Conservation measures and the management of resources at the level of regional fisheries organisations should, of course, be defined alongside measures to ensure effective compliance.
The agreements are intended, in particular, to preserve the small local fishing enterprises with their family structures, and to protect them from competition that uses illegal methods, as well as from large-scale fleets which plunder the seas using large amounts of electronic equipment and deep fishing nets.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs once again for their excellent work, and I would also like to thank all the Members for their remarks.
It is very important to secure these control schemes.
The reports and the amendments concerning these schemes can help us a lot.
I share with you the opinion that these regional fisheries organisations are very important for our policy and we need to boost their activity in order to tackle illegal fisheries worldwide.
I agree with you that we need a balance between the three institutions, but we need a better balance, and I am ready to participate in specific discussions with Parliament as regards how these RFMO measures can be more effectively transposed into EU law.
The changes which have been introduced by way of revisions to the conventions are absolutely essential.
I would like to thank Mrs Fraga Estévez for chairing our committee but, above all, I would like to thank the Commissioner.
Through the new wording of Article 48 of the regulation, which is the article that provides for the amendment of the regulation in future in order to transpose the various NEAFC recommendations into EU law, in the majority of the articles, we have delegated powers to the European Commission.
