Brazil: extradition of Cesare Battisti The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Brazil: extradition of Cesare Battisti.
Cesare Battisti is not a political refugee.
I say it in order to encourage general reflection on how these types of issue end up being discussed on a Thursday afternoon session, when, and I stress this point, in this context, we have a sub judice situation with a resolution already in place.
The relations of the victims of Cesare Battisti - who killed four decent, hard-working people in a senseless bloodbath in front of their families and children - came here yesterday in this spirit of trust.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in this Chamber to remember that the European Parliament and democratic institutions must protect and support the relatives of the victims of terrorism and provide the sense of justice that European public opinion demands.
Mr President, even France - where Cesare Battisti had previously fled - decided back in 2004 to accept Italy's extradition request, recognising his crimes and the corresponding sentences, because Cesare Battisti is a criminal who must be brought to justice.
Mr President, I am not Italian, I am not Brazilian, I am a citizen of a Member State of the European Union, and I do not want the Union to be a Union which has lost its sense of proportion - a Union in which a criminal enjoys the same rights as the victims of crimes and their families.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Romeva i Rueda, yesterday in a touching press conference held in Parliament, the relatives of the victims of the indiscriminate murders of Cesare Battisti spoke fairly and with dignity to once again present the issue at the heart of this tragic affair.
Taking up the appeal of the victims' relatives, we therefore ask for Cesare Battisti to be brought before the Italian judicial system, which will know how to show - as it has done in hundreds of other cases of former terrorists who are now reintegrated into social and civil life - that to be punished is also to make amends, as the Italian, Cesare Beccaria, taught Western legal civilisation, and not just intimidation or brutalisation, as the Brazilian authorities fear.
If you want to talk about Brazil, then it would be a matter of true urgency to demonstrate our solidarity with the people affected by the storms that recently lashed the state of Rio de Janeiro, in particular, the cities of Nova Friburgo, Petrópolis and Teresópolis, which killed more than 700 people, left more than 13 000 people homeless, and caused incalculable damage.
It is lamentable that the European Parliament has not commented on this tragedy and has not asked the European Commission to express its active solidarity to the President of Brazil and its availability to provide any aid necessary.
Therefore, I propose that the proposal be withdrawn in order to avoid a deplorable decision. (The speaker agreed to take two blue card questions under Rule 149(8)) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to reply to the fellow Member who said that there are many other urgent issues to be dealt with and so on, simply by stating the fact that, in contrast to many other issues which are quite clearly worthy of our interest, this is an urgent issue that involves not only a country outside the European Union, but one within it, and we are also referring to citizens who have been killed or disabled and who are European citizens. (PT) Mr President, I have already said, and now repeat, that this is not a truly urgent matter.
We know that the legitimate authorities in Brazil have this case in hand and that the Italian citizen is being held in Brazil.
This is at the foundation of the social contract that props up all communities that are civilised, or that aim to be. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 31 years after the blood spilled by the victims of the barbaric murders carried out by Cesare Battisti and his gang, it has still not been forgotten.
Today, together with the relatives of the victims, the citizens of Italy and the whole country, it is the European Parliament - showing its extraordinary unity with a joint motion for a resolution - that is forcefully asking another country, which is a friend of Europe and a friend of Italy, for the immediate extradition of Cesare Battisti, who is a criminal and a terrorist and who has been convicted with definitive judgments, so as to finally bring to an end this difficult and painful episode that has been dragging on for too long. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 'By himself, he was a petty crook or a minor felon, but he was bright and like me, he also believed he could become a politician.
At the end of December, after President Lula da Silva issued a decision not to allow extradition, Berlusconi announced that he would recall his ambassador to Brazil and continue to fight to get Battisti extradited back to Italy.
We are not here to find out whether Cesare Battisti is guilty or not guilty.
I would very much like them to show the same tolerance towards me. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you respect your fellow Members, Mrs Vergiat, you absolutely should not dare to say that your Italian fellow Members are never interested in human rights.
I have taken a personal interest in this period.
The Brazilian Supreme Court has granted the extradition of Cesare Battisti, who has been found guilty in some seven trials and sentenced in absentia to four life sentences for as many murders, with definitive judgments issued by the Italian judicial authorities.
Italy's relations with Brazil on criminal cooperation are governed by a bilateral extradition treaty concluded in 1989.
At this time, this House should be sending two other messages to Brazil: one of solidarity regarding the disaster in which more than 700 people lost their lives, and one of delight on account of the democratic election of President Dilma Rousseff.
Brazilian President Lula was authorised by the Brazilian Supreme Court to extradite Cesare Battisti, an Italian citizen convicted of four murders, among other charges.
On 31 December 2009, President Lula's last day in office, he refused to extradite Battisti to Italy.
