Consequences in the European Union of the dioxin animal feed incident (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the dioxin animal feed incident and its impact on the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, as you are well aware, the New Year started with a serious incident of dioxin contamination of animal feed in Germany.
But let me start with the facts of the incident first: the incident came to light when a compound feed manufacturer notified the German competent authorities on 22 December 2010 after having received the analytical result from a laboratory that a sample was found to be non-compliant with EU legislation after self-controlled tests.
A total of almost 2 300 tonnes of potentially contaminated feed fat was delivered to 25 feed manufacturers in Germany.
Between 100 000 and 200 000 tonnes of feed containing 2% to 10% of the potentially contaminated fat were delivered to about 4 800 farms in Germany.
They have also been in touch with the competent authorities in third countries, providing a clear picture of the incident to our trade partners.
I personally contacted the German Federal Minister for Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection, Ilse Aigner, on 6 January, and we exchanged views on what needs to be done to avoid similar contamination and incidents in the future.
This incident will also be discussed during the Agricultural Council which will take place in Brussels next Monday, 24 January.
The incident has highlighted the necessity to ensure the effectiveness of national control systems which underpin the confidence of all EU Member States and third countries in our food and feed safety measures.
Commissioner, I am very pleased that you have acknowledged that the German authorities took the appropriate sequence of measures - that was also my impression in Germany.
I, too, am in favour - and I am also speaking on behalf of my group - of the introduction of the strict segregation of food production from the production of other products to prevent such mix ups from happening.
The health of European consumers must not be the adjustment variable in a system which prioritises cost reduction and which essentially indirectly encourages such incidents when the penalties are as weak as they are.
In contrast to the Commissioner, I do not believe that it was an accident or mere chance.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, I sympathise totally with the position that many German farmers find themselves in at the present time.
There, the people responsible for a scandal in 2008 have only now been prosecuted.
However, the precautionary level has been deliberately chosen so that we only reach the range in which long-term damage was seen in animal experiments at 100 times this limit.
In the case of the scandal in Belgium in 1999, the values were 700 times higher than the current EU limit value.
We have also reduced dioxin contamination in the environment to a tenth of what it was in 1990 through EU measures - for example, through chemicals legislation, improved standards in connection with waste incineration plants and so on.
I welcome your proposals, but with these you will not solve the main problem. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this scandal gives me a real sense of déjà vu, because the course the crisis has taken is, indeed, almost identical to the one that occurred twelve years ago in Belgium.
We are also finding out today that the German company Harles and Jentzsch has been adding dioxins to animal fodder, and has supplied up to 3 000 tonnes of dioxin-contaminated fat to the market since March 2010.
In my view, however, this is not a matter for the EU.
The Germans have identified a problem, they have told us about it and they are taking the necessary steps.
Secondly, with regard to the information that the previous speaker is in possession of, I would like to ask him whether he is also aware that there are studies that show that citizens would be happy to pay a bit more if they could be sure that the products are of a high quality and have come from animals that have been kept in a way that is appropriate for their species. (FR) Madam President, I think that the Member who asked a question actually had a comment to make on a situation rather than a question to put to me.
Unfortunately, this important development stalled on 8 December in the Health Council.
We hope that the Council and the Commission adopt a similar attitude. (SV) Madam President, Commissioner, I have to agree with what several of my fellow Members have already said, namely that, to a large extent, the current legislation is working.
The problem lies in compliance, control and sanction systems.
Secondly, does it intend to reinforce traceability and information measures in order to guarantee an optimal protection of consumers in future food crises with health implications? (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the German dioxin scandal has shaken the confidence of European consumers and they are rightly demanding the highest level of safety and complete traceability in food production.
Identification of all of those responsible and limitation of the damage in the German dioxin scandal are just the start.
Swift and comprehensive measures need to be taken to prevent such practices by animal feed manufacturers in the future.
Some test results from the Agriculture Ministry in Schleswig-Holstein have shown that the fat in the feed contained 77 times the approved amount of dioxin.
What we want to know from the Commission is why this rapid alert system has again failed to protect consumers, and what the Commission is going to do to put it right. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, twelve years after the Belgian dioxin scandal, dioxins have now been found in feed in Germany, a country with a tradition of discipline and reliable institutions.
Secondly, we need more stringent checks.
I wonder what the Commission has done in the two years to avoid this current crisis.
I would have liked your opinion on this matter, Commissioner. (DE) Madam President, the German animal feed industry has a good system of self-controlled tests.
Secondly, we need it to be a requirement to report all of the results of feed tests, and these must also be produced during the relevant checks.
I have been involved in the drawing up of legislation in my country since 1987.
In my 23 years of experience in the field, I have always found that the biggest challenge is not deciding on which clauses to enter into a piece of legislation, but trying to anticipate how that law will be broken and therefore to try and counter it from beforehand.
I am in constant contact with the competent German authorities and am satisfied that they are doing everything in their power, not only to contain the situation as quickly as possible and to collect all the information necessary to form a clear and whole picture of the situation, but also in terms of the action they are taking.
The fact that some animal feed producers have been aware of this dioxin contamination since March 2010 without reporting it to the authorities is completely unacceptable.
