This was also on the agenda of the Defence Ministers' meeting which I chaired last week and which was also attended by NATO Secretary-General Anders Rasmussen.
I would like to underline the strong political commitment to the strengthening of the EU-NATO strategic partnership expressed by all, especially from President Obama.
On 9 December, EU Ministers of Defence warmly welcomed the progress that has been achieved in strengthening cooperation with NATO.
In that context, we trained a 114 crews, that is over 1 300 personnel with 58 helicopters.
As an immediate result, 63 trained crews were deployed in Afghanistan.
Another example, this time in the field of countering road-side bombs, is the counter improvised explosive devices, where the European Defence Agency is in the final phase of purchasing a forensic laboratory which could be deployed in Afghanistan next year.
I will move forward in a concrete and pragmatic way working on behalf of all 27 Member States.
However, it also became obvious, and the debate on Afghanistan is an example of this, that there is a high level of civil and military cooperation in an area where the European Union can make a significant contribution.
However, we must understand that no progress has been made in one decisive area, because the necessary cooperation, which needs to be organised much more effectively, has been vetoed by NATO's partner Turkey.
We should not make NATO and the cooperation between NATO and the European Union into an instrument for use in a dispute with a Member State of the European Union which is not a member of NATO.
On that basis it has tried to establish a new balance between the alliance's regional and global involvement.
This means not only developing and updating our European security and defence concept but also developing our military capabilities.
In coping with all these duties, the European Union should not only preserve its strategic connection with NATO but should also be able to make its intellectual and political contribution with regard to maintaining NATO's ability to deter, and its ability to defend Member States against any aggression, in a context different from the one which determined the birth of the alliance.
Madam President, I believe that the Lisbon Summit is the first since 1999 to make a beneficial contribution in terms of a strategic vision for the Alliance.
I think that a more important consideration in this century is that not only the existing threats and security interests but also, in particular, the ability of defence budgets to offer effective military solutions raise for discussion the issue of a bipolar world.
However, I must stress that, in my view, compatibility with the European security project is also vital to NATO.
Madam President, Baroness Ashton, the NATO Summit in Lisbon is of great importance for the EU and for Parliament, because we can only manage European security successfully in future if NATO, the EU and other organisations, such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), each make a contribution and cooperate effectively.
The Secretary General says that the amount is EUR 200 million, but all the experts believe that the missile defence system is more likely to cost between EUR 40 billion and EUR 70 billion and we do not even know how it will be managed. 2.
Former world powers, in particular, obviously find their nuclear weapons much more attractive than an ambitious European policy for nuclear disarmament. 3.
Unfortunately, it has a split personality in security policy terms.
I was also recently in Kosovo, where I saw for myself the valuable work being undertaken by NATO troops in KFOR.
NATO's operation Ocean Shield is working well off the coast of Somalia to combat piracy, although it is in danger of duplicating the work of the larger EU Common Security and Defence Policy mission Atalanta.
I welcome the new approach by NATO of looking at the broader picture, from cyber security to the threats posed by climate change and food security, but the rationale for NATO is as strong today as it ever was when the organisation was first founded 61 years ago.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Madam President, the NATO Summit took place in Lisbon, and so I would like to say a few words about what happened in my country in connection with this Summit.
It has also resulted in the European Union becoming subordinate to North America's military strategy and interests.
As a result, I would like to say, Madam President, that in my opinion, with this Summit we lost democracy, we lost freedom, and we lost so that some could win with war.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, thank you for using my full name.
This month we lost the carrier HMS Ark Royal prematurely with the loss of 6 000 dedicated personnel.
Although the dispute between Germany and France over nuclear disarmament has been settled, the fact is that we will not be able to do without nuclear weapons in future.
A world without nuclear weapons and even without dictatorial regimes will remain an illusion while some states are only taken seriously when they join the ranks of the potential or actual nuclear powers.
Based on this new strategic concept, while taking into consideration Article 5 of the Treaty of Washington regarding mutual assistance, there are three aspects that I am interested in.
In particular, we welcome the revival of the strategic partnership with Russia, the explicit formulation of the goal of a world without nuclear weapons, the recognition of the importance of a stronger European defence, the reaffirmation of the principle of collective defence and, at the same time, the statements that NATO does not consider any country to be its adversary.
We have been listening to her comments on other issues and I think they are very interrelated.
I would just like to mention that we have headline goals for 2010, but now we are at the end of 2010 and we are far from reaching them, including on the civilian side.
My last point, very briefly, is that there is a debate now going on regarding crisis response and national disaster response.
I think we have to be careful there to keep the neutrality of the EU humanitarian response, even if it is sometimes difficult in crisis areas.
Article 5 has been revived and does not preclude the ability to mount a defence against a ballistic attack.
The plan of action on the transatlantic missile defence architecture should be completed not later than the middle of 2011.
In addition, cooperation with Russia in this area must not mean a weakening of the defence of Central Europe. (PT) As stated in the conclusion to the NATO Summit that took place in Lisbon, NATO is proving itself to be a military alliance, a nuclear military alliance determined to intervene rapidly and in large numbers in any part of the world, at any time and under any pretext, asserting that it has a single and robust set of political and military capabilities, capable of dealing with any type of crisis: before, during and after conflicts.
The cautious new attempt at cooperation between NATO and Russia in developing a missile defence system in Europe represents just such a change in security policy, indicating that both the US and Europe may find a powerful new partner in Russia, which perhaps also realises that terrorist groups and militant regimes built on extremist ideologies have become the greatest threat to the peaceful and dignified life of civilised democratic society.
I also have something to say about election observers.
My group is entirely against its existence, among other things because we do not support any state in the world - or any group of states, such as the NATO military alliance - being able to use force without a specific mandate from the United Nations Security Council.
The EU has gone a long way since St Malo to affirm its role in security and defence, and NATO in turn has acknowledged the need to broaden its purely military domain by a softer dimension and has already taken the decisions.
Mrs Ashton, what plans do you have to play this card within NATO, where 21 of the 28 allies are also members of the European Union?
And what do you have to say to the two nuclear powers that are members of the European Union and that have also been most resistant to attempts at change by the NATO Strategic Council in connection with this existential question for the whole of humanity? (EL) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, I think that we are living in an absurd world and that you have been elected to play a role in it, in order to mitigate this irrationality absurdity.
I would like to say a word about complementarity: it is essential and must be applied intelligently.
It is also to be welcomed that the new concept highlights the need to strengthen the strategic relationship between NATO and the European Union.
However, a clear division of tasks needs to be determined, in order o be efficient and not duplicate efforts in times of crisis.
The Treaty of Lisbon was a step forward in the common security and defence policy, which we must now consolidate.
The objective is clear: the European Union must be capable of mobilising the necessary civil and military capacity to be able to take on its international responsibilities, and the common security and defence policy should make a significant contribution to Atlantic security.
It would be significant, Baroness Ashton, if you could tell us something more in this respect. (PL) Madam President, Mrs Ashton, the question has, in fact, been asked in this discussion, today, as to why in the European Parliament - an EU institution - we are talking about the NATO Summit.
Poland - I am a Member from Poland - will certainly support you, Mrs Ashton, in this work during the Polish Presidency.
We should also point out that close cooperation between the EU and NATO is of vital importance, and this should be developed without prejudice to the principle of decision-making autonomy and with due respect for the nuclear status of some EU Member States. (DE) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the NATO Summit has made good progress.
New strategic elements, such as civil crisis management and cyber defence, are moves in the right direction.
In particular for small, neutral countries like Austria, strengthening the strategic partnership between NATO and the European Union is of decisive importance.
Romania has advocated the establishment of the shield since the Bucharest Summit in 2008.
This indicates that my country had a suitable vision and will make a significant contribution to implementing the defence system.
However, this is the general and optimistic view.
We all know that, in a post-cold war environment, there are discrepancies in and varying degrees of perception of threat.
Ankara also takes a different approach to cooperation with the common security and defence policy, because it wants to exclude cooperation with one European partner and Member State of the Union.
All this makes the role of the common security and defence policy even more important, within the context, of course, of Euro/NATO cooperation.
Besides, I do not think that the issue with Russia is a difficult issue.
The last such big exercise to prove that the US could move troops rapidly into Europe took place 17 years ago.
It is vitally important that NATO's military institutions remain well integrated and that military commanders from America and Europe have the possibility to practice together.
Big military exercises in autumn 2009 in north-west Russia close to the territories of the Baltic States prepared for invasion of these states as a counter-attack, presumably against NATO actions.
Therefore, Russian insistence on equality in relations with NATO and some sort of joint decision-making is premature and carries a risk of a Russian veto on NATO's decisions and further enlargement. - (SK) Madam President, at the Lisbon Summit, NATO confirmed its role as guarantor of security in the Euro-Atlantic area, and also acknowledged that it has new challenges to confront.
That should tell you that, for us, the questions of security, NATO and NATO's relationship with the European Union are slightly more significant than they are for other nations.
For precisely that reason, I would like to say that those who attended the Lisbon Summit have passed up an opportunity to take a clearer and more principled and decisive stance on the wishes of two countries in South-Eastern Europe, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to strengthen their security by joining at least one of the EU or NATO.
NATO has the opportunity to correct mistakes that are made by the European Union.
I think that we need to take this into account. (PL) Madam President, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak.
Written statements (Rule 149) At the meeting of the ministers of NATO member states in October 2008, General John Craddock, commander of the NATO forces in Europe, stated that Russia's military action in Georgia prompted NATO to revise its basic assumption concerning the security of its member states.
The agreement with Russia is an expedient political step, which could serve the reinforcement of our security.
The problem is that only 21 of the 27 EU Member States are in NATO, posing a threat to the development of European defence.
