Review of the Belgian Presidency of the Council (debate) Colleagues, allow me to welcome Prime Minister Yves Leterme.
It is true that we were not venturing into totally unknown territory but, even so, it was necessary to establish the criteria for the new functioning of the European Union under the new Treaty, with the new institutions with which the European Union has equipped itself.
Agreement has been reached on the 2011 budget and, most importantly, in total, in those six months, almost forty agreements of a legislative nature were concluded between Parliament and the Council.
Ladies and gentlemen, our determination to respect both the letter and the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon was a choice for the future of the Union, an investment in ever closer European cooperation.
To achieve this, during this Presidency, we followed two major guidelines.
Instead, we incorporated our programme, the Belgian programme with its five priorities, into the European agenda, into the programme of the Commission, into the momentum generated by the Heads of State or Government at the level of the European Council, into the programme of the troika with our Spanish and Hungarian colleagues. (NL) Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, as well as not wanting to impose a Belgian agenda, we opted for what I would call an inclusive Presidency.
We cooperated with all parties, obviously with Parliament and the Commission, but also with the new permanent President of the Council, the High Representative and, of course, with Member States, but I believe I can say that, throughout all of our tenure, we paid particular attention to working constructively, and with an open mind, with Parliament, whose powers have been significantly strengthened under the new rules.
This applies to our Presidency, but it also, in fact, applies to the European Parliament, although you must be the judge of that.
This is a testament to the quality of your debates and - and this should reassure European citizens - the priority you have placed on what is good for Europe, placing it far above national interests.
Over the coming months and years, we will actually have more to do than ever, because our Union, our society, is facing exceptionally great challenges.
The first challenge, obviously, lies in the continuity of what we have started over the past six months, namely, economic governance.
Since those six months began, we have worked together to take the measures necessary to avert a crisis in the euro area.
The threats which a number of the countries in the euro area have been facing have shown that a monetary union cannot, in fact, work on its own without an economic union, without greater economic convergence.
We must therefore press on with determination along the road of greater economic cohesion, more cohesion in the fiscal, economic and social policies of Member States.
A return to budgetary discipline should not just be a non-binding target; it must be verifiable and, if necessary, enforceable at a European level.
Those jobs are, of course, essential for the maintenance of our very specifically European social model, which goes hand in hand with political and economic freedom, social solidarity and ecological responsibility. (DE) The Union must use the new instruments that it is introducing in order to monitor the financial markets efficiently.
Of course, it is also to be expected that closer monitoring of the national political decisions of the Member States will not proceed without discussions and sources of friction.
The Union must indeed develop more clout, it must be able to act in a decisive manner and to become a real pole of influence and power in this multipolar world.
I would like to quote the French thinker and writer, André Frossard, on this challenge for the coming years.
We need to have faith in ourselves and in what we have accomplished, and not to excuse ourselves for who and what we are.
We need to remember that, before being a market, before being a currency, before being a set of institutions, the Union - our Union - was a vision, a belief, a dream.
And those refugees - those people - aspire, like so many people elsewhere in the world, to the rights and freedoms which too many of our citizens take so easily for granted.
In a much quoted statement, Jean Monnet said that nothing gets done without people, but that nothing lasts without institutions.
We must remember that we will carry our citizens with us only if we give them a vision: if we give them a dream.
I am sure it will hold high the torch of the European dream of peace, the European dream of freedom, and the aim of an ever stronger Union. (Applause) Mr President, Mr Leterme, ladies and gentlemen, with efficiency and focus, with pragmatism and Community spirit, the Union made important advances during the Belgian Presidency, which deserve our admiration and our recognition.
Its action was always embedded in the fundamental sense of the existence of the European Union, the solidarity of everyone in the general European interest.
It is nothing more and nothing less than the expression of our firm political will to defend our common destiny.
The future of the euro area and the future of the European Union are two sides of the same coin.
We want this future to be stable and prosperous for ourselves and for future generations.
We must achieve this adaptation while reaffirming our values, defending our interests and enhancing our credibility and influence on the international scene.
The basic decisions we have taken on strengthening European economic governance and tackling our macro-economic imbalances are at the heart of this progress.
I hope that, during this six-month period, the European Parliament and the Council will adopt the proposals on economic governance.
Fundamentally, the question is not who among the different political stakeholders in Europe emerges a winner or a loser, but whether each of us is prepared to cooperate in full respect of our mutual prerogatives.
If we do not strengthen our economic governance, we will lose the battle for stability, growth and employment in Europe.
And if we do not strengthen our economic governance, we will lose our credibility on the international scene.
I would therefore like to congratulate the Belgian Presidency most sincerely.
The agreement obtained at the ECOFIN Council on 17 September resulted in the establishment of new cycles of economic governance, known as the European Semester.
We also achieved notable successes in financial supervision, in particular, by adopting a new European architecture of financial supervision, which came into existence on 1 January 2011 with the establishment of the European Systemic Risk Board and of three new financial supervisory authorities covering the markets, the banks and insurance, respectively.
For our citizens, austerity measures are not a vague concept but the harsh reality of their daily lives.
Contrary to the expectations of some pessimists, Cancún also managed to show some progress towards multilateralism in the fight against climate change.
Cancún also demonstrated the importance of cooperation between the Presidency and the Commission to enable Europe to speak with a coherent and audible voice on the international scene.
This is very important for our citizens.
It used all its negotiating skills to brilliant effect during a difficult discussion on the 2011 budget of the European Union under the new budgetary rules of the Treaty.
The Commission is proud of the contribution it made to this outcome.
The important decisions that we have taken over the past year are proof that all of us, Parliament, Council, Commission, Member States, know what we have to do to ensure a stable and prosperous future for Europe.
We have said that we have the will to do it; we must now show that we are indeed capable of honouring our political commitments without diluting them, without weakening and without allowing ourselves to be fooled by tentative signs of recovery.
We need to consolidate our actions, to show that they are not a reaction to the pressure of the crisis in the markets, but rather the strong reaffirmation of our will to live together in this Union for peace, solidarity and freedom.
Mr President, the Belgian Presidency has rightly received praise from all quarters.
The Treaty has radically changed the institutional framework, as I have already stated in my report on the previous term.
Thus, the European Council and the Council have now clearly become two separate institutions, each with its own Presidency.
This is not the case here and, therefore, Europe has made real progress during this Presidency.
The difficult budget debate during the Belgian Presidency also set the course for one of the most difficult challenges facing the Union in years to come, namely, the establishment of the new financial framework.
Belgium received a pledge from the previous presidencies that Parliament would be involved in the debate on this multiannual financial framework.
Parliament will therefore ensure that both the Commission and any forthcoming Presidencies adhere to these commitments.
You know, Mr Barroso, that you have our full backing in this regard.
You said that this is primarily about tax, fiscal and social cooperation.
The things that you said are very important.
I hope that all the political forces in Belgium attempt to find a real consensus.
It is difficult to tell people in a crisis-hit region that they should just reach a consensus, that they should just work together on important issues, when this is not possible in Belgium - one of the heartlands of the European Union.
The role of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is to pass and monitor legislation, which therefore means being critical when things go wrong, when things are in a bad state, but also giving praise when things actually turn out well.
We could say that the Belgian Presidency has been good, very good, and that it has been a success thanks to the efforts of many people: the Belgian Government, but also many diplomats, the Permanent Representative, the Deputy Permanent Representative and all those who have worked every day to make it a success.
It was a success which no one foresaw, because, Mr Prime Minister, all of us were constantly confronted with the following question from our constituents: how can a caretaker government make for a successful Presidency?
In my view, it was the first time that we had ever had a real European government, because it was a government which concerned itself only with European affairs and European issues, and which was not distracted by the affairs of its members' own nations.
Jean-Luc Dehaene is right when he says that there are, indeed, a number of Member States that still do not understand that the ground rules have changed.
If we have ended up with an arrangement for European supervision whereby the objectives of the European Parliament have finally been attained, then that is because the Belgian Presidency told our colleagues in the Council: 'That will not work, it has to be a European solution', unlike the solution developed by the finance ministers in December 2009.
I would say the same about the European patent.
I would call on you and all other members to give the green light for that patent to the European Parliament very soon, so that, after more than 20 years, the European patent can finally become a reality.
Mr President, as others have said before me, it is obviously true that, to date, Belgian political engineers have been better outside their borders than at home.
Moreover, I am of the opinion that the opposition you encountered in the different Councils in fact resembles the opposition we encounter in the Belgian debate: solidarity, transfers, all these issues relating to withdrawal or contribution are things that we are very familiar with in Belgium and that you encountered in the Council.
Since Belgium helped the European Union, perhaps the European Union could help Belgium to unblock its federal stalemate.
I know that, in Belgium, there are some who do not want a federal constituency, but I think that it is necessary, and perhaps it is precisely because they do not want it in Belgium that Belgium wants it at European level.
I think it is a very important issue.
It is an important instrument alongside all the economic governance reforms and I hope that Belgium may also contribute to moving the process forward more quickly and more strongly.
When I look at the dossiers that I am qualified to assess, the balance is positive.
I am very familiar with both Belgium and Europe.
And, to that end, you now want to check the budgets of the Member States a priori in the place of national parliaments.
Yet you continuously refused to initiate a debate on the setting up of a social and environmental development fund financed by a tax on capital movements and the upward harmonisation of taxation on capital, on the creation of money by the European Central Bank for the repurchase of the debt of Member States, and on the development of public services that are crucial for justice and social progress.
At the start of your Presidency, you said, Prime Minister, that you wanted a sober Presidency, and this was very much to your credit.
That is why we must all support the Commission, so that Europe continues to be a major force.
As far as the Belgian Presidency is concerned, it is generally admitted that it was a very successful Presidency.
I should like to add two points to what has already been said, which were not mentioned here and which underline the success of the Belgian Presidency.
The second commendable point of the Belgian Presidency was the model it applied; the model of trialogue and tripartite cooperation between the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission.
One could, of course, say that you and the ministers have had plenty of time to deal with the Presidency, given that you were only running a caretaker government.
One could say that you have benefited from diplomats who have done their job well and that the importance of the rotating Presidency has decreased since the Treaty of Lisbon.
All that might be true, but I think that your best decision was to heed the advice of Vlaams Belang and, in particular, to adopt a low profile.
You could have made the same mistakes as the previous Belgian Presidency in 2001.
In terms of financial supervision, in the space of 48 hours, the Minister, Mr Reynders, managed to get a dossier that was in deadlock moving, and we were able to give the Council and the Commission what the Commission had asked of us: European authorities that could begin operating on 1 January 2011: strong, authentically European authorities with clout.
Parliament has already adopted two contributions: the contribution to the coordinated guarantee funds and the contribution to the banking stability funds.
To be honest with you, this has been a somewhat uneventful debate, but also one that we can take pride in, and so I happily join my fellow Members' chorus of praise for the Belgian Presidency.
Yves, your team, your ministers, and also your political and diplomatic corps have done a fantastic job.
I have had the joy and pleasure of participating in two trialogues on the environment and - no, you must not let this go to your head, though this time you will receive a little praise - here I wish to compliment you on the intelligent way in which you have discharged the Presidency.
My first 'but' has to do with social policy; in my opinion, we have made progress on a number of social dossiers.
Nevertheless, we have to be honest and say - and I am not laying this at the Belgian Presidency's door, but at that of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion - that European interest in these issues is not great.
You have taken the lead in making clear that this Parliament supports the Commission in wanting to see correlation tables included in all future legislation.
Prime Minister, I wonder if, in your concluding remarks, you could tell us what sort of response you have had to that paper and whether the Belgian Government, in its role as part of the troika and within the Council, will continue to press for the inclusion of correlation tables. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have one minute to applaud the Belgian Presidency.
In my view, thankfully, Commissioners Potočnik and Hedegaard had a strong presence, in terms of content, at the major biodiversity conference in Nagoya on biodiversity and the climate change conference in Cancún.
If I were to present the Golden Shoe to the Belgian Presidency, to the best actor in the Belgian Presidency, then it would, without any doubt, go to the Belgian diplomatic staff, to the people who are seated behind you and who have ensured that you, your team and the regional government have indeed done a cracking job. (PL) Mr President, it goes without saying that I would like to add to the words of congratulation and the compliments regarding what happened during the Belgian Presidency.
I am here, on your left, Mr Prime Minister.
I have a text in Portuguese but I am going to improvise in English because that was the language you used in what, for me, was the most important part of your speech, when you said: 'look at refugees.
I have to admit that my heart jumped when you said that, because I am the European Parliament rapporteur for refugees.
The Council could have finished the codecision procedure which Parliament started on resettlement of refugees.
My kids are not going to school; I do not have a passport; we are stuck in a refugee camp; why are you talking about a minor institutional problem when you could have done something to help our problem?' This will tarnish the Belgian Presidency.
I am sorry to say this; I say it in sadness. (NL) Mr President, I would like to join in the tributes which my fellow Members have been paying here to the Belgian Presidency and to you, Mr Prime Minister, because, at a time when the way in which your country's cabinet was formed was causing deep consternation for many businesses, you truly managed to draw on the European spirit to make this Presidency fully functional.
You rightly say that economic governance should not result in a situation where we are merely treating the symptoms without doing anything about the risk which is still out there because, while a robust Stability and Growth Pact might well become a reality, it is only one mainstay of that economic governance.
I have to say that I had hoped I would be wrong and, without wishing to offend you, Prime Minster, like all Belgians, I would have liked to have before me today the Head of Government duly elected at the ballot box on 13 June.
I hope that future presidencies will learn from this example. (DA) Mr President, I would also like to thank the Belgian Presidency for its contribution, particularly in the two areas that I am most familiar with: the budget and transport.
The fact that the budget negotiations broke down in the first round was not down to the Presidency and, of course, we did find a solution in respect of the 2011 budget.
I would like the governments of all the other countries to be inspired by the Belgian Government's positive view of this matter so that we can at last get something to happen in practice. (PL) Mr President, Belgium, which is one of the six founding states of the European Union, has recently ended its six-month Presidency.
Despite domestic political difficulties connected with not being able to form a government, the Belgians are officially being praised for their effectiveness and success in achieving almost all the priorities they had earlier set themselves.
For this reason, I would like to join in congratulating them because, in such a short period of time and as part of the priorities set out, they faced up to the economic crisis in Europe, protected Europe's environment, built an open and secure European Union, built a coherent social model in the European Union and provided the foundations for a common EU foreign policy.
It is rare in history that such a small country, in such a short time, has done so much for the benefit of Europe. (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister Leterme, when, six months ago, the Members of this House had so many questions about the Belgian Presidency and when we had read the programme, many Members were still full of doubt.
Finally, I wish just one thing for you and for Belgium, and that is that we finally get to see the proficiency at Federal level in Belgium that you have shown at European level following the sound thinking that whoever has to make demands - as you did - must also demonstrate solutions. (ES) Mr President, Mr Leterme, on behalf of those in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament responsible for employment and social affairs, I would like to join my fellow Members in congratulating the Belgian Presidency on the last six months.
I hope that in the next six months, the Hungarian Presidency will listen to you and you will be able to regain freedom of speech in the Council, and that the Council will focus on Europe's soul, which can only be a humanist soul and a soul of progress. (IT) Mr President, Mr Leterme, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am pleased to have had a Presidency that has proved able to manage the European agenda in a pragmatic and effective way, albeit at a difficult time.
There is also another aspect that we worked on extensively together, which is how to ensure that the economic governance to which you referred can stand on its own two feet, because, if it treats the issue of employment as a balance, it is leading us into disaster.
This is not the spirit in which economic governance can ensure the success of the European question, which is what our employees and our citizens are expecting. (DA) Mr President, I would like to say that the Belgian Presidency has been a wonderful and unrivalled example of how the EU works.
It is perhaps a depiction of how the EU actually works best - without elected representatives and, in fact, without any people at all.
That is the legacy of the Belgian Presidency, and it is regrettable. (NL) Mr President, Mr Leterme, Mrs Győri, both you and your diplomatic service have proved that we can be successful, even in very difficult economic conditions, and that we can tackle those conditions in a way that makes Europe stronger.
You will probably be 65 then and I will be a year older than that.
I hope we will have just as much success during the Hungarian Presidency. (RO) Mr President, while there were fears that developments in Belgian domestic politics might affect the performance of the rotating Presidency, I am pleased that Belgium proved the predictions wrong by handling the European dossiers in a pragmatic and efficient manner.
In two sensitive dossiers for Romania, the Belgian Presidency chose the options which best reflected the position argued by Romania: the discussion of the Roma issue from the social inclusion aspect and the management of the procedure for referring to the European Parliament the draft decision on the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area. (SK) Mr President, I would like to begin by emphasising that Belgium assumed the rotating Presidency in a situation that was difficult not only on the internal political scene, but also, of course, on a global scale.
I cannot therefore ascribe all of the failures of the Union to Belgium.
I could imagine some even more ambitious measures in this area, but I think that Belgium succeeded in coordinating at least the things that were possible, and to achieve at least some progress.
He says that we are facing a financial crisis - a crisis of the welfare state in an ageing society, a crisis of globalisation of nation states and, potentially, even a crisis of the efficacy of European democracy.
I would ask people to discuss this, because perhaps he is right. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your speech, Mr Leterme, contained some important quotations; it is a shame that, in reality, you will be remembered mainly as the Prime Minister of a country that, 219 days after holding elections, was unable to form a government.
Perhaps if you had been slightly more on our 'level' from the start, we might have had a better relationship. (DE) Mr President, Belgium definitely took over the Presidency of the Council in a very difficult transitional phase, as, for one thing, the economic crisis had not yet been overcome, whilst, at the same time, the Treaty of Lisbon, of course, had not yet been completely implemented, while its limited fitness for purpose also became apparent.
In the whole debate about the euro rescue package, however, there is a significant aspect that must not be forgotten, namely, that both the rescue package for the euro area countries and the loans for Greece violate the Treaty of Lisbon.
That means that this is a clear case of the EU exceeding its competence, which ultimately makes a proper amendment procedure for the Treaty indispensable.
Belgium was not really able to master either of these two - admittedly difficult - challenges, namely, overcoming the economic crisis and implementing the Treaty of Lisbon. (PL) Mr President, many good opinions have been expressed about the Belgian Presidency, in particular, about its effectiveness in negotiations and its calm in a difficult period of crisis, the G20 summit, the Cancún conference and the budget debate.
The financial markets' return to stability and also economic stability were dominant issues, but it should be said that national egoism went wild, in particular, as regards the budget.
The Belgians' effectiveness in negotiations should be congratulated, but this was, after all, Belgium's twelfth Presidency.
It seems to me that this is the essence and spirit of integration, about which Prime Minister Leterme was speaking.
What worries me is the crisis in adopting the 2011 budget and, in particular, the background to this and the forecast that in the future, the new financial perspective will not be negotiated easily. (ES) Mr President, there is at least one area that is important for Europe and for the region to which I belong - Euskadi, the Basque Country - in which you have done absolutely nothing.
I cannot, therefore, congratulate you, because basically, the Council does not recognise the powers that the Treaty of Lisbon gives this House.
I would also have thanked you for paying a little attention to my speech. (PT) Mr President, I, too, should like to congratulate the Belgian Government on the success of its Presidency, despite the difficult conditions under which it took place, which have also been mentioned here.
Mr Leterme reminded us of the dream that guided the founders of the European project in addition to the single market, and Mr Barroso highlighted the importance of European spirit.
I think that these are good points in the current context, in which we need greater unity and solidarity in order to face the challenges before us. (PL) Mr President, the Belgian Presidency, the last two presidencies to be precise, came at the time when the Treaty of Lisbon was being implemented and a new order was being shaped in the EU.
Both these presidencies limited their national approach in order to deepen cooperation and coordination in the EU.
On the other hand, we should be careful in limiting the role of national presidencies in creating their priorities.
I feared the opposite.
The Belgians did that exceptionally well and have given an example to other countries of how to do so in future.
Despite this context, Belgium can be credited with some real progress thanks to the fighting spirit of your ministers and of our ministers: the report of the EPSCO Council before each European Council to act as a necessary counterweight to the ECOFIN Council; the conclusions on social services of general interest; pensions, notably the conference on pensions in Liège, which highlighted the necessary joint consideration of the adequacy and sustainability of pensions, which I feel bound to stress, and the EPSCO declaration on the Year for Combating Poverty.
I think there has to be a fair opportunity for Members to intervene in debate.
If you wish, you can come to my office, I can show you the list and we can explain it.
On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that it is very well deserved.
The Belgian Presidency's very good cooperation with the European Parliament and very close contacts with the Commission resulted in what is clearly a very impressive list of achievements.
A calm and constructive approach was needed for the conclusion of the debate on the 2011 Budget, and for the beginning of the new economic governance in Europe.
Even in complex, protracted discussions on issues such as divorce, financial supervision and even patents, the Belgian Presidency managed to achieve clear progress.
It is very clear now that we need to carry forward the positive spirit and efficiency of the Belgian Presidency.
If we do not want to have a jobless recovery, we need to look at how we can reform our labour market rules and how we can remove the obstacles to higher employment in Europe.
This is the only way we can develop our social market economy in Europe.
The Belgian Presidency made a major contribution to the launch of this new process of economic governance and we now have to continue the excellent work it started.
Prime Minister, Secretary of State, I should like to thank you very much for your excellent work.
I would also like to thank all your diplomats very much for creating a positive atmosphere in which the next Presidency can continue the work you started so successfully six months ago.
I am delighted to see so many people here, but I know that has to do with other items on your agenda. (NL) Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, wish to thank all those of you who provided very constructive feedback, which will prove invaluable in your and our work in the future.
By way of conclusion, I would like to highlight three elements.
First of all - and this obviously goes beyond the remit of our Belgian Presidency - I think it is really important that we institute best practice as regards the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Secondly, the purpose of managing the rotating Presidency is, perhaps not just acting as facilitator, but also as a driving force, as one of you said, so that our institutions can do their work.
It would be absurd, of course, if we managed the rotating Presidency in such a way that it failed to do justice to the letter and spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Belgian Presidency strengthened the role of employment policies in the Europe 2020 strategy, it ensured that these policies would have a place in the new economic governance of Europe, and I believe that it also created the foundations for the social dimension of the Europe 2020 strategy, not only the fight against poverty, but also social cohesion.
As I said earlier, our Presidency is not perfect and I think that, as Mr Tavares rightly pointed out, we can do more than we are doing today at the level of refugee policy. (NL) By way of conclusion, I will make two final remarks, as there are other items remaining on the agenda.
We have done all that we could, ladies and gentlemen, to apply the Treaty of Lisbon correctly, which is also a kind of salute to the initiatives developed since the eleventh Presidency, which oversaw the emergence of the Treaty of Laeken, and later, under important rapporteurships, with a view to implementing the spirit of Laeken in the Treaty of Lisbon.
As we have seen in recent years, the accession of economically weak countries has complicated the work of the European institutions and weakened the whole of Europe, which is now less capable than it was previously of shouldering the domestic problems of any new Member States.
It should also be stressed that the Belgians have marked out the path for future presidencies in the context of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This method of working allows the policies of European institutions to be planned and carried out to a greater extent.
Firstly, this was the first Presidency which had operated on the basis of the rules introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, and secondly, the EU and its individual Member States were in an extremely difficult financial position.
It left its domestic problems and issues to one side and concentrated on following a course of action that corresponded to the proposals of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council, and on supporting these institutions.
With regard to the priorities achieved by the Presidency, measures focused on combating the economic crisis deserve recognition; I am thinking here, above all, of work on the next multiannual financial framework.
Its work, which has just come to an end, can serve as a model for the countries which will lead the work of the European Council in future.
In my opinion, the key success of the Presidency we are discussing was its consistent implementation of the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, in particular, at the level of the European Council, which became a full institution with a permanent President, and at the level of the Foreign Affairs Council, which is currently headed by the High Representative.
