Protection of the Communities' financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual Report 2008 (debate) The last item is the report by Mr Cozzolino, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the protection of the Communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud - Annual report 2008.
The work was confined, first and foremost, to the scenario outlined by the Court of Auditors, whereby the financial impact of irregularities fell from more than EUR 1 billion in 2007 to EUR 783 million in 2008.
In order to achieve these objectives, we propose that Parliament insist on certain priorities: firstly, we propose that OLAF draw up 27 profiles, analysing with due care and attention the strategies followed by each individual Member State in combating fraud and irregularities in the use of European resources, with a precise map of the authorities responsible for performing checks in each individual country and data on the quantity and quality of the checks performed and on their effects.
According to the Commission's report, the declining financial impact of irregularities in 2008 indicates that some of the legislative and institutional measures aimed at discouraging fraud were implemented successfully by Member States.
The worst of all was the banks - Allied Irish Bank and Irish Nationwide - playing ping-pong with accounting practices to hide their true situation.
The information has to be made available on a single website in each Member State, in line with the principle of shared management.
Commissioner Šemeta looks forward to presenting this paper to the Committee on Budgetary Control at its meeting in July.
in writing. - (HU) The crisis unfolding in some countries of the euro area presents an unprecedented warning to European decision makers to unconditionally protect public funds and the Community's finances.
Rigorous monitoring, in order to end the era of corrupt governments, is more important than ever in this critical period.
in writing. - (DE) The report on the fight against fraud indicates a fundamentally positive development.
From 2007 to 2008 there was a reduction in the negative financial effects of irregularities in all sectors.
