Religious freedom in Pakistan The next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on religious freedom in Pakistan.
author. - Madam President, Pakistan's inability to develop a strong and enduring democracy has impacted - quite severely, in my view - on religious freedom in that country.
author. - Madam President, my group, ALDE, welcomes the measures taken in the interests of religious minorities by the government of Pakistan since November 2008, and supports the efforts of the Federal Minister for Minorities in establishing a network of local inter-faith harmony committees to promote dialogue between religions.
Nevertheless, much needs to be done along the road towards genuine religious freedom in Pakistan.
The removal of representatives of religious minorities from the electoral register, as happened in 2007 in Pakistan, is certainly one such practice.
Furthermore, pursuant to Article 260 of the Constitution of Pakistan, the country's citizens are divided into two categories: Muslims and non-Muslims.
After all, under the Cooperation Agreement signed six years ago between the European Union and Pakistan for the years 2007-2013, Pakistan is receiving EUR 200 million from the EU budget.
In the only prison in Lahore, 4 651 prisoners were held in 2009, while the prison has a capacity of only 1 050 prisoners.
There is, of course, a fundamental contradiction in right-wing groups in this European Parliament claiming to stand for freedom and human rights in Pakistan, while supporting the war in Afghanistan which is having a severe spill-over effect into Pakistan with very detrimental consequences.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, blasphemy laws in Pakistan, as various colleagues have pointed out, are easily abused by extremists as an excuse to use violence against religious or non-religious minorities.
These blasphemy laws in a society in which freedom of expression is repressed in the name of religion pose another risk; last Wednesday, a court in Pakistan banned the social networking site Facebook in the country.
In this context, it is important to recall that in December 2009, President Asif Ali Zardari reiterated the pledge of the PPP (Pakistan People's Party) to uphold the rights of minorities to be treated as equal citizens.
In this context, I would like to recall the EU Council conclusion of 16 November 2009 on the relationship between international human rights law, which protects individuals and groups of individuals, and the concept of defamation of religion.
Only then can we effectively demand that our partners make similar advances or steps on the path towards them. (PL) We welcome the fact that Pakistan is engaged in the fight against international terrorism, but this circumstance must not obscure other, very drastic facts, which show that in this country, drastic violations of the rights of religious minorities, especially Christians, are being committed.
We must expect fundamental change, including from the European Union and its institutions, in relation to such conduct. (DE) Madam President, around 75% to 80% of all those suffering religious persecution worldwide are Christians.
Of the 156 million people in Pakistan, 95% are Muslims, around 3% Christians and around 2% Hindus.
I am going to take four speakers. (DE) Madam President, in the case of any country, it is important to consider its origins and whether the developments in the area of human and minority rights are moving in the right direction.
I believe that this would be a specific measure which would help to bring an end to discrimination against this minority. (FI) Madam President, I would like to say that I, too, met the minister for minority affairs here this week.
The United States of America has been a lot more active than the European Union in this matter. (PL) Madam President, the situation in Pakistan is developing dynamically and we are receiving conflicting information, and we have to observe the situation there very carefully, so as not to make a mistake.
The authorities in Pakistan must do something about the Penal Code, which provides for the death penalty for all people guilty of and convicted for blasphemy.
Thank you very much. (RO) After nearly nine years of military dictatorship, the elections held in Pakistan in 2008 heralded the start of a process of democratisation in this country.
Unfortunately, Benazir Bhutto was assassinated a few weeks prior to the elections.
The European Union also plans to raise these issues at the next meeting with Pakistan, on 4 June this year.
The promotion of tolerance is the key to protecting religious minorities in Pakistan.
