Some Member States have close relations with Libya, but it is important to ensure that such relations are duly anchored in the fundamental values and interests of the Union.
The Union cannot abstain from persuading Libya to commit itself to a moratorium on the death penalty and it is essential that it demands that the Libyan authorities publish the identity of national and foreign citizens who are executed.
From our point of view, it would be advantageous to set up an EU office in Tripoli soon to facilitate the negotiations and monitor the development of the situation in Libya.
Commissioner, in these recommendations, we ask the Commission for detailed information on the budget lines used and planned in the cooperation with Libya.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to brief this House regarding the negotiations on the European Union-Libya Framework Agreement.
In particular, we have reached a provisional agreement on the title on political dialogue, which contains important references to respect for human rights, the fight against weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism, etc.
I would also like to stress that we are following closely negotiation between Libya and the UNHCR in the hope that a satisfactory solution will be found to ensure that the UNHCR is able to discharge its mandate fully and in a legally secure environment.
More generally, in October, we reached an agreement with a view to developing cooperation with Libya on all migration-related issues, including the issues of international protection, improving the conditions of migrants in Libya, management of migration and border control.
I am fully aware of the obligations created by Article 218 of the Lisbon Treaty.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, the June 2009 Council recommended prioritising the conclusion of readmission agreements with Libya and Turkey, considered as major gates for illegal immigration into Europe.
Massive illegal immigration in Malta risks altering its demographic composition.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all, I would to thank the rapporteur for her outstanding work in trying to consolidate the positions of all the groups of the European Parliament.
Nevertheless, the EU and several of its Member States have increasingly close relations with Libya, and the EU is now even negotiating this framework agreement.
The Greens strongly object to any dirty deal with a dictator like Gaddafi on the back of migrants and Libyan citizens.
Gaddafi is the Fidel Castro of Africa.
This gives Gaddafi leverage over the EU and, in particular, he has sought to divide the Council by courting the leadership of certain Member States.
Nevertheless, on pragmatic grounds, I accept the need for cordial trading and diplomatic relations between the EU and Libya under a framework agreement.
Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her work and Mr Füle for being here today.
If one has to deal with governments and countries about specific issues, one cannot choose whom to talk to. (NL) Mr President, the European Commission has provided a new export product to Libya, a rogue state, and its dictator Gaddafi.
The Tunisian example should serve as a warning that we need to proceed very cautiously, especially in the way in which we report on the negotiations.
We cannot simply notch up successes as we go through the negotiations and celebrate because a regime such as the Gaddafi regime may have agreed to certain human rights references, for example, because that regime is well-known for its major violations of all fundamental rights.
However, China is also the country that bans the word 'democracy' from its search engines and executes thousands every year.
So, I ask in all sincerity, just how low will the EU go to save the euro? (DE) Mr President, the overthrow of the Tunisian Government has caused shock waves in neighbouring countries in the Maghreb region, which are mainly dictatorships, and also in Libya.
In addition, the plight of Christians in Islamic countries must be given a higher priority in EU foreign relations. (DE) Mr President, Mr Füle, we are responsible for all the men, women and children who seek refuge here because their lives are at risk.
We must not betray our values simply because we want the economic benefits or a readmission agreement.
I refer to my speeches in this House in recent years, in which I have repeatedly said that the Union's policy cannot be focused on simply maintaining the status quo.
I would like to stress the need to cooperate with Libya in managing migratory flows, including an agreement to readmit illegal immigrants including third-country nationals, as is the case in all readmission agreements concluded by the Union.
However, we do also have to insist that the Libyan authorities respect the rights of refugees, including - as has already been said - the principle of non-refoulement. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Maghreb is going through difficult times.
I will send the rapporteur, Ms Gomes, more details of national indicative plans for the years 2011-2013, showing EUR 60 million being provided for our programmes in Libya.
Nonetheless, the European Union has taken the option of building relations with Libya in order to be able to address all issues in an open and constructive manner, including very sensitive ones like human rights, the respect for fundamental freedoms and the rights of migrants.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have participated in this debate.
We recognise that we have to deal with a difficult interlocutor, but it would be unconscionable not to pursue that line because there are humanitarian obligations towards the people who are suffering so much in Libya, in particular, the migrants who are going through Libya and enduring the situation there.
Despite the difficulties, and despite having no illusions that we will achieve an agreement soon or that all the conditions that we put forward will be met, we need to pursue that line.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 20 January 2011.
