This partnership must, above all, be in the interests of our citizens - Tunisians and Europeans.
On 17 December 2010, a young university graduate set himself on fire out of sheer desperation after police seized the fruit and vegetables that he was selling for a living.
As Catherine Ashton and I stated this morning, the European Union stands ready to support a truly inclusive electoral process with appropriate guarantees.
Firstly, on whether policies to support the status quo in countries that lack democratic freedoms really contribute to stability, in this case, in our immediate vicinity.
The summit that was supposed to be held in November 2010 has been postponed indefinitely.
We need to change tack - change gear - and we are telling the Commission and the Council that this can be achieved by showing more conviction in giving Parliament a role in the elaboration and application of a new idea of partnership with the countries of the Mediterranean.
Today is Martin Luther King Day and it was Martin Luther King who said that a time comes when silence becomes betrayal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I admit that I would have liked this Parliament to measure up to the pride of the Tunisians who managed to defeat the dictator Ben Ali.
Just last week, most groups rejected a debate on Tunisia and refused to condemn Ben Ali.
The European Union must demonstrate that, for us, what is happening in Tunisia is the key to understanding and hope for all Arab countries.
We did not know in 1989 how Poland would turn out.
If we ask for an assurance every time people demand freedom - that is, if we ask them to tell us that the situation will definitely progress in a particular direction - we will never support freedom, and that is why I ask the Commission to move, give something, show the Tunisians that the realpolitik now is the policy of supporting democracy and no longer the policy of supporting the dictatorship structure. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the upheaval in Tunisia is undoubtedly a reflection of people's frustration at the country's political stagnation and its relative economic stagnation.
It took the self-immolation of a young man of 26 to make the Tunisian people rise up and no longer be afraid, because they felt quite alone.
It took more than 50 deaths before the European Union dared to make a timid statement calling for restraint in the use of force, but without calling into question the sacrosanct EU-Tunisia partnership and without condemning the violence, Mr Füle, until Saturday.
It was only on Saturday that you spoke out on this, Mr President, and today a majority in the European Parliament rejected a written resolution.
Men have already immolated themselves in Algeria, Egypt and Mauritania.
