Amendment of Regulation (EC) No 663/2009 establishing a programme to aid economic recovery by granting Community financial assistance to projects in the field of energy (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Van Brempt, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 663/2009 establishing a programme to aid economic recovery by granting Community financial assistance to projects in the field of energy - C7-0139/2010 -.
You need to multiply those EUR 146 million by approximately eight in order to get an idea of what the impact could be.
We have reached a compromise: all the funds that are left over today have been registered and I firmly believe that this will mean that this project will be assured a long life - and I think that, if we carry on working together as we have done, we will also be able to ensure that it becomes incredibly successful for us.
I would once again like to expressly thank everyone who has worked on this, in particular, all the shadow rapporteurs.
I would also like to thank all the strident Members of this House and the Belgian Presidency, because we have worked hard in this area over recent weeks and we are able to present a document today which will definitely provide a stimulus in the area of energy efficiency.
In the next few days, EUR 146 million will be made available for projects which are important to all of you.
Our partners in these projects, chosen by you, are municipal, local and regional authorities which have close links with the projects in question.
I would like to thank everyone concerned once again.
We have called for the programme to have a separate budget line and we would like to transfer to it the EUR 15 million available in the agricultural policy area which cannot be accessed there because there is no legal basis for doing so.
This is where the budget needs to be more flexible.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, because far beyond the EUR 146 million that have been agreed, the impact of which we hope will be eight-fold, this initiative has important symbolic value.
The text that we are going to vote on is also important because it introduces an innovative financial instrument.
The funding of EUR 146 million which is available under the amended proposal must be targeted towards projects that will have a rapid, a measurable and a real impact on economic recovery.
I believe that the establishment of a dedicated financial instrument will allow for this funding to be administered in the most efficient manner and the beneficiaries, as I said in my own native language, will include local and regional authorities.
I think we did a good job. (DE) I would also like to praise Mr Oettinger.
Because - and some have said this - this is EUR 150 million for the decentralised, the local, energy investments, where, on the other hand, we have billions - one billion for carbon sequestration, for example.
We are optimistic that this EUR 150 million, well managed, will create the base for a much bigger instrument which we will get under the next financial perspective.
This is an unconventional gas which is already playing an enormous role in extraction in the United States and is giving America complete independence in terms of access to gas.
European solidarity requires that the Union support these projects as strategic for its future and as projects which guarantee the uniform development of all European states.
We are here to discuss a very specific programme to aid economic recovery, which is in the crucial area of energy in this case.
The submitted proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 663/2009 is a response to the repeated requests of the European Parliament to create a new, single-purpose financial instrument for supporting energy efficiency and initiatives in the area of renewables.
An example of this would be the European Energy Programme for Recovery, which has a financial reserve of around EUR 150 million, as well as the multi-year GR programme for the climate sector, which was set up with a similar aim.
I therefore think it would be very sensible to consider how we might best use the financial resources saved in order to extend the scope of the European Energy Programme for Recovery to include a new and, it would seem, necessary, single purpose financial instrument for supporting energy efficiency and initiatives in the area of renewables.
We can make it easier for public bodies at the local, municipal and regional levels to implement projects in the area of energy saving and renewables thanks to this effective new financial instrument. (LV) Madam President, I am pleased that the European Union has learned to kill two birds with one stone.
Therefore, I believe that this additional financing will become a good incentive to step up sustainable energy initiatives and projects, especially at regional and local level. (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to compliment Mrs Van Brempt and her shadow rapporteurs emphatically on this important legislative initiative.
I think this should, at last, be said very clearly and directly. (CS) It is, without doubt, thanks to this Parliament that the volume of resources for projects in the area of energy efficiency and renewables has reached EUR 146 million.
If we are to dispel the suspicion that the newly established fund is targeted mainly at those who have not used the resources allocated within the EUR 5 billion package of the economic recovery programme due to non-implementation of projects, representatives of the new Member States should also be included in the selection process.
The topic is crucial.
I am delighted that the European Parliament has stood by its commitment to promote renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
This is why it is very important that we complete these projects successfully by 2014 and it would be of similar importance to examine efficiency in 2014 in order to improve the efficiency of this institutional system as well.
The second step was that Mrs Van Brempt managed to guide the members of the committee towards a solution and a compromise.
That was the most important thing for me and the most productive outcome and, therefore, I would like to thank everyone involved. (RO) I wish to remind you that in 2009, when the European Union's economic recovery plan was debated for the first time, the Commission made the undertaking that it would allocate EUR 1 billion to energy efficiency in homes.
I wish to congratulate Mrs Van Brempt for her report.
I believe that energy efficiency must feature at the top of the European Union's energy strategy priorities. (RO) The Energy 2020 strategy launched yesterday by the European Commission marks an important step towards a secure, competitive energy market in Europe.
Finally, I would like to stress the importance of public-private partnerships, which are a key element in the implementation of solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Van Brempt, for her excellent work and for an agreement that will at last make it possible to free up significant resources for the development of renewable energies and energy efficiency in the context of the challenge for green growth.
Therefore, this is a sensible, functional use of the unspent funds of the European Energy Programme for Recovery, if the opportunity is provided of facilitating the funding of investment projects related to energy efficiency and renewable energy through local and regional authorities.
As far as this assistance and assistance for renewable energy in general is concerned, we generally cannot have a one-size-fits-all approach for the whole European Union.
The Member States should have the opportunity to react with more flexibility to changing circumstances and thus promote energy efficiency, energy diversification and an increase in energy independence. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the current difficult economic and financial scenario, Europe must continue to support projects in the sector of energy efficiency and renewable energy for a sustainable and social competitive economy.
I would like to thank Mrs Van Brempt for her excellent work. (PL) In January 2009, in response to the financial crisis, the European Commission proposed the reallocation of EUR 5 billion from unspent European Union funds, mostly to support energy projects which would contribute to economic recovery in the European Union.
I also consider it necessary to insist that the draft resolution also include projects in the area of electrical efficiency and renewable energy sources, which stimulate economic development by creating opportunities for additional jobs and help in the fight against climate change.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this EUR 146 million, we are entering an experimental laboratory together.
Firstly, I would like to say thank you, because you have fought to ensure that it was not EUR 114 million, but EUR 146 million, and that the Member States were prepared to go slightly beyond their rather restrictive limit.
This means that this is also an experimental laboratory for more budget funding.
In the first instance, of course, responsibility lies with the Commission, the European Investment Bank and other partners in this story.
It is thanks to the major efforts of Minister Paul Magnette and his team that we now have a very good compromise and one that we will soon, I think, also adopt with a great deal of enthusiasm.
Written statements (Rule 149) In January 2009, the European Commission proposed reallocating a portion of unused European finance to support projects in the energy sector in response to the economic and financial crisis.
Ladies and gentlemen, last year I, too, welcomed the allocation of almost EUR 4 billion for projects in the field of energy as part of the Union's economic stimulus package.
Spending the EUR 146 million fund on renewable energy and energy efficiency projects is a good start but we must admit that this amount is insignificant even at Member State level.
We are very pleased that the Energy 2020 strategy unveiled by the Commission yesterday sets out the creation of an energy-efficient Europe as one of its main priorities.
The European Energy Programme for Recovery provides a financial package amounting to EUR 3.98 billion for 2009 and 2010.
Energy efficiency and renewable energy have frequently been named as EU priorities helping to implement the 2020 strategy and ensure energy security.
