Food information to consumers (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Sommer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers - C6-0052/2008 -.
Consumers have a right to know what foods contain.
The Commission draft does not live up to these requirements, however, since it is based on assumptions and suppositions concerning consumers' wishes and requirements, imposes unrealistic labelling requirements - such as the 3 mm font size, which does not even ensure that the information is legible, and favours big business to the detriment of SMEs - which actually make up 80% of the food sector.
It also runs counter to the goal of harmonisation in the internal market, in that the intention is to expressly allow 27 additional national labelling systems.
Information must be comparable and therefore it must always relate to 100 grams or 100 millilitres, without an option of only stating the nutritional value per portion.
Information must be understandable.
Consequently, I am proposing that the only nutritional value stated is the number of kilocalories per 100 grams or 100 millilitres.
These profiles are superfluous because the new regulation labels nutritional values in any case.
The question is whether consumers really want to know where all the ingredients in their foods come from or whether there is actually a protectionist agenda at work here.
It must provide assistance, but our citizens are responsible for themselves and it is not for us to take over that responsibility.
The question of mandatory origin labelling is very important and needs careful assessment.
The principle that consumers should know what they eat should apply not only to prepacked foods but also to food that they buy over the counter or when they eat out.
Turning to the suggestion for mandatory labelling of nano-ingredients, I am pleased to accept the amendment in principle, although there needs to be a suitable definition.
Finally, on the issue of nutrient profiles, let me state that I cannot accept the amendments to delete or modify Article 4 in the proposed way, as this provision would undermine the existing regulation on food claims.
The establishment of nutrient profiles does not prohibit or in any way limit the food products that manufacturers can produce.
We are also in agreement that consumers must be provided with clear information through good labelling.
Of course, we also agree that the rules should enable the internal market to function as well as possible.
Madam President, I would ask you to speak to the services on my behalf in order to denounce this arbitrary decision and to ensure that, within the next 24 hours, the services reconsider and accept this sound amendment.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Sommer for her tough, committed work.
I would like to thank Commissioner Dalli and President Barroso for having attempted to provide clarification on these matters.
It is clear that consumers are becoming more conscious of the origin of the food on their plate and want honest food labelling.
Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his statement at the start of this debate, and also Mrs Sommer for her work as rapporteur.
However, we must realise that nothing is as hard as changing people's behaviour, particularly when we are talking about 500 million of them.
When it comes to nutrient profiles, I take a completely different view from Mrs Sommer.
I totally agree with the Commission on this issue.
There are other similar products on the market, and Mrs Sommer and I have both tabled amendments that are intended to provide a correct description of these products.
With regard to egg products and other products of animal origin, we could label them according to the system that already applies to eggs, in other words, a system that indicates the conditions under which the animals have been reared.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, one of the most contentious items in this debate has been country of origin labelling.
I firmly believe that consumers have a right to know the origin of the food they purchase and, particularly in the case of meat, if it has been produced to high welfare standards and has not been transported over great distances prior to slaughter.
That is why I believe that the feasibility of mandatory labelling rules must first be subject to an impact assessment, and I am glad that Commissioner Dalli said that he supports that.
But while this debate focuses on raw materials or ingredients of foodstuffs, it does not cover the origin of the final product.
This is particularly important for specific products like whisky.
Our approach must not be paternalistic but open to dialogue. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik believes that the provision of appropriate information to consumers is of vital importance.
This regulation will help us tackle not only this obesity crisis, but also other health problems such as diabetes, stroke and heart disease.
I also believe that alcohol producers should label their products for calories and sugar in a similar fashion.
This is linked to the fact that it is becoming common for people to be overweight and the by-products of that, such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease, are also becoming common.
The packaging of food must provide clear and truthful information on its content.
The Committee was in favour of the compulsory labelling of industrial trans fatty acids, and I hope that Parliament as a whole will follow suit.
According to that summary, there is so much evidence of their harmful effects that the most obvious option would be to ban industrial trans fatty acids, as they have in Denmark.
I am totally in favour of labelling of origin, but I think we have to be very clear about what we mean by labelling of origin.
We must ensure first of all that people - the consumers - know where the produce came from.
However, we must be careful not to create information overload in any labelling system.
Therefore, simplicity and valuable information should be the key criteria in a labelling system.
I do believe that it is important that we know where our food comes from.
I therefore put it to you that we should reject the amendment to delete nutrient profiles, profiles which, I might add, we approved in 2006.
But different interpretations and different practices in different countries and competing commercial interests have led to much complexity.
In a response to a parliamentary question he has just given me, he says that 44 000 applications for health claims have been made by companies.
They do not want to be dictated to about what food they can and cannot eat. (PL) From the point of view of the common internal market, the question of harmonising the principles of labelling and the mutual recognition of food products is of great significance.
Therefore, bearing in mind the good of consumers, I think that information on the country of origin of products should be given based on the voluntary principle and in cases where the lack of this information could mislead the consumer concerning the true source of the product.
On the other hand, however, we also still need nutritional profiles, because only these can ensure that consumers are not misled as to whether a food is healthy and whether the ingredients really promote health and a good diet.
It is a well-known fact that a clear label on a food product influences consumer decisions and, in addition, encourages producers to promote healthy food.
I hope we all agree, too, that this should be a move in the direction of European consumer expectations, although also taking into account the capabilities of small and medium-sized enterprises in the food sector. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament is being asked, as we know, to express a definitive opinion on food information to consumers.
The aim, in fact, is to harmonise European food legislation through regulations that will make information to consumers transparent, thereby preventing a situation in which they are led to make confused choices or choices that may even be harmful for their health.
On the basis of the European Commission proposal, an attempt is therefore being made to revamp the current legislation by involving both the food industries and consumers.
There is nothing new about the fact that we are hearing more and more about the dangers posed by food products that surreptitiously carry designations and statements that often do not meet dietary requirements but are nonetheless passed off as products that are good for human health. (PT) Mr President, the labelling of food products is vital in order to guarantee food safety.
Some want to decide what is on our menu; others want to tell us which dishes we can and cannot eat.
I assure you that the Portuguese, and particularly those from the Minho region, will never give up eating pica no chão or arroz de cabidela; they will never give up caldo verde and cozido à portugesa, accompanied by good local desserts and a bowl of vinho verde tinto.
Consumers need to know what they are eating, and they need to find that out in the brief time that they are in the supermarket doing their shopping.
Consequently, I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to support those amendments that are aimed at finding a sensible solution for this category of sales. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, there is no doubt that there are health problems in the European Union, nor is there any doubt that the interests of consumers must have priority or that food is unlike other commodities, in that it is something that we consume and put into our bodies.
However, it is naïve to think that we can solve these problems through food labelling.
Thirdly, I believe that country of origin labelling is important, particularly for foods.
Most consumers want to know where their food comes from and where it was manufactured.
Fourthly, I believe that health information must be scientifically based if it is to influence consumers' decisions.
Please would you tell us something about when we can expect this. (DE) Mr President, today's good news is that the new legislation will provide uniform, mandatory nutritional labelling that relates to 100 grams, thereby providing greater comparability.
I am in favour of food labelling according to the GDA model and am pleased that we are likely to vote to move towards this tomorrow. (HU) Consumers must know what they are eating.
We must confirm this regulation requiring country of origin specifications for single ingredient products such as fruit and vegetables, meat, fish and other foodstuffs. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while it is a priority for this Parliament to ensure that consumers have food that is safe and from a guaranteed, traceable source, it is just as much of a priority to promote easy access to food information through appropriate labelling systems.
I would like to know where the Commission stands on this very important issue. (DA) Mr President, I am the European consumer and I want to know what I am putting in my mouth.
We welcome the fact that the 100 gram and 100 millilitre declarations are to be stated on the front of the packaging, as statistics show that this is the information that consumers are looking for.
I am in favour of a nutrient profile labelling system that is flexible and based on research.
The food industry must take responsibility and must clean up its own act and work to eliminate things that result in poorer food.
When we vote in this Chamber tomorrow, we shall decide if citizens can assume environmental responsibility for the foods which they choose or if they are to finance companies, without knowing it, to destroy the environment and our common future. (DE) Mr President, three million European schoolchildren are overweight and the number is increasing by a further 85 000 each year.
I urge you to support the rapporteur's proposals. (PT) Mr President, good labelling on food products is vital.
For this reason, if it is to be effective, the information must be clear and accessible and must only contain the essential facts.
Consumers, who must be guaranteed complete freedom of choice, have a right to know what products they are buying, what those products contain and where they come from.
Effective labelling should not make discriminatory judgments between good foods and bad foods, but can provide consumers with tools to help them make independent, informed decisions.
The Lega Nord has always fought to protect and safeguard quality products that are locally grown if possible, because it believes that a good, healthy diet is the key to improved health and quality of life. (RO) The subject of colour coding seems to be the most heated point of discussion in today's debate.
However, I also think that we must not demonise certain foods.
Last but not least, I support Amendment 351 mentioned by Giovanni La Via. (SK) First, I would like to applaud the work of the rapporteur, Renate Sommer, who, in drawing up the report, has focused on improving the directive drafted by the Commission.
The size and thickness of the lettering mentioned in the Commission's proposal are insufficient.
What is more, I am opposed to mandatory nutritional labelling for wines and spirits.
I would like to emphasise that consumers must get clear and transparent information on the nutritional value of a product, but must then make their own decisions.
I would like to emphasise once again my strong support for the principle of nutrient profiles, and would stress that we will not be stopping the production of any food and that work on this will proceed in an open-minded manner.
The Commission cannot accept deletion of this provision from the Claims Regulation.
I am in favour of innovation - as is the Commission - but it must be responsible innovation.
On the issue of the claims made and the approvals mentioned by Mr Davies, I must state that, under Article 13, we did have about 44 000 claims by Member States.
On the other hand, 50 claims have already been judged under Article 14, and the Commission has pronounced itself in favour or against.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 16 June 2010.
Instead of plugging the gaps as they are intended to do, the individual Member States' additional regulations have hindered trade within the European Union internal market.
For these reasons, I believe that only a uniform, Europe-wide food labelling system can hope to eliminate these problems.
Mandatory labelling must be presented in a comprehensible format so that consumers can make informed purchases.
Consumers do indeed continue to occupy a special place in our decision-making process when it comes to safeguarding both their health and the quality of the goods that they buy.
The Sommer report is crucial not only for giving consumers clear information but also for avoiding distortion of the market and acting as a catalyst for the European economy, through transparent mechanisms and the uniform application of rules within the EU.
Given this, I believe it is inopportune and mistaken to label wine according to the regulation currently under consideration.
The Commission has completely overlooked small farmers and the direct sale of unpackaged products.
Both the traffic light and nutrient profile models overlook the fact that the human body also needs these much maligned fats, sugar and salt in order to function properly.
Then we plan to introduce a food labelling system in which foods with a low sugar, fat and salt content would have a green traffic light on the label and those with a high content a red traffic light.
All of a sudden, those apples which we have supplied at a cost of millions of euros would have a red label because of their sugar content and would therefore be seen as being unhealthy.
The labelling standards, particularly the colour coding which I will be supporting in tomorrow's vote, will help both those who have specific dietary needs, as well as those who are conscious of their general diet, to make the right choices.
On the strength of this legislation, the Union will introduce a system of food labelling which will be mandatory in all Member States.
Harmonisation of legislation at European level means that the correct functioning of the common market will be guaranteed by enabling consumers to make informed choices, while at the same time ensuring legal protection for producers.
