Welfare of laying hens (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Paolo De Castro, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the welfare of laying hens - B7-0657/2010).
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today represents an important opportunity to discuss the strategic issue of protecting animal welfare in agriculture.
Mr President, the memory of the Council of the European Union on Agriculture, held on 19 July 1999, is fresh in my mind.
Mr President, adopting the motion for a resolution on the welfare of laying hens, which we will vote on this morning, could represent a first and important step in this direction.
After all, as has been said earlier today, it is expected that 30% of all eggs produced in 2012 will breach the battery cage ban which we agreed in 1999.
Commissioner, this is merely a matter of simple arithmetic.
Mr President, like the Chair of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr De Castro, 12 years ago, I, too, had the opportunity, as Minister for Agriculture, to participate in the decision to adopt the legislation that we are discussing here today.
The solution reached was to favour animal welfare and allow a sufficiently long period for the sector to adapt.
I am grateful to the Commissioner for the information that she has provided us with, but we would like to obtain more detailed information on what point each Member State has actually reached.
We would also like to know what specific procedures the Commission is thinking of following to ensure that companies can, in general, comply with this legislation on 1 January 2012, other than those the Commissioner has mentioned, and if there is actually a framework of penalties with a modicum of uniformity between the various Member States.
However, my group will be voting against removing, in whole or in part, points F, 8, 9 and 14, which contain wordings and objectives that we doubt are compatible with EU law and that will reduce the resolution's credibility if they remain.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for the information at the beginning of this debate.
Regardless of whether you have the complete picture or not, the hard fact is that, as of 1 January next year, 80 million eggs in the European Union are likely to be produced under illegal cage systems.
I want Member States who are compliant to be able to protect their consumers and their producers by being able to ban imports of illegally produced eggs from those producers and countries which are not compliant.
Everyone in the European Union must have known that these deadlines would have to be observed.
We have a terrible problem here because, as George Lyon said, there are 83 million eggs - we know that for a fact - which, on 1 January 2012 are going to be illegal.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the Commission has created a huge crisis in the egg industry.
Like it or not, 100 million birds will still be in cages on D-day - or should I say E-day?
Let us look at the practical implications.
Or, how do you safely smash and dispose of 83 million eggs every day?
On the assumption that you somehow succeed in either of these, where will consumers turn for their 83 million daily eggs?
Those bandits who do not comply might be given more time and would be clearly rewarded because they would have been given a price advantage.
If more time is given, then the moral of this story is that, if the EU makes a directive, it pays to ignore it. (ES) Mr President, in January 2012, 400 Spanish egg producers could disappear, which is around 30% of the total number in my country, with the loss of the production of 300 000 tonnes of eggs.
The European Union could stop producing the 80 million eggs, which amount to 2 million tonnes, and if we do not act very intelligently, the only thing that we would achieve would be that they would be covered by imports from third countries, whose animal welfare standards are much lower than those in the European Union.
We need to respect the directive, give the egg and egg products industries a chance and also respect the right to animal welfare and the right of consumers to a reasonable price. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, at this point, I would like once again to point out that a decision has already been made to ban the practice of battery farming in cages.
They do not at all give the true story of egg production in the European Union.
The Commission needs to tell us what is going to happen on that day, because it is inevitable these eggs will be on the market and there will be a black market in eggs of some description, so we do need clarity on this.
In the meantime, the Commission can enforce other legislation that is in force, such as electronic identification of sheep and goats, which adds value in terms of traceability and good veterinary conditions and also has a direct impact on animal welfare. (PL) Mr President, it is quite clear what the resolution under debate is saying - there are to be no exceptions and no derogations.
I therefore call on the Commission to assess the feasibility of maintaining the ban on the use of conventional cages from 1 January 2012 while also finding solutions and clearly defined criteria for those producers who will not complete the modernisation process by 1 January 2012, as referred to in two amendments supported by my group.
I hope that the Members who accept this line of reasoning and vote in favour of the resolution will all be just as determined and unanimous when it comes to voting in favour of there being no further transitional period after 2013 for the differentiation of direct payments in the European Union, since a deadline of 2013 was enshrined in the Treaty for this transitional period.
It is enshrined as such, and I do not think we should change it. (HU) Mr President, the debate so far has made it clear that there is a serious conflict of interests between those who have completed the transition to the new system and those who have not yet done so.
However, there is also a serious conflict between the old and the new Member States.
Provision has been made so that products not produced in accordance with the legislation cannot be legally marketed and traded within the Community from 1 January 2012.
In other words, when numerous farms in the Union are in danger of going out of business, due to enhanced animal welfare standards, products will be imported from third countries that do not even meet the specifications which apply in the Union today.
Yes, we must protect animal welfare, we must safeguard the proper treatment of animals, but we must also protect the European social and productive fabric. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, although all European producers should respect Community legislation and make the necessary adjustments in time, it is estimated that 30% of egg producers will not have made them by 1 January 2012.
At such a difficult time of crisis therefore, I believe that particular attention should also be paid to these producers. (RO) Mr President, I do not think either that it is fair for us to talk in general about a 10-year period which Member States would have had available.
The measure has been drafted with the barest minimum of enforcement, left to the precious care of greatly varying standards in 27 Member States.
Firstly, between 1999 and today, there has been a deep economic crisis that has hobbled businesses, industry and consumption, so many businesses have not been able to make the adjustments.
If this is what we want at a time of crisis - to favour a drop in employment and an increase in imports of eggs produced outside Europe, under different criteria than those imposed on our producers - then I think that we shall commit an injustice.
The terms 'illegal production' and 'consumer care' have a very nice ring to them, but I would like to know why we do not show the same determination in protecting consumers against the consumption of imported eggs produced in conditions which do not meet the requirements introduced in the EU.
I always try to understand the situation of different groups of farmers in the individual countries, and I am in favour of solutions that help them, since I know that as a group, they are in an exceptionally difficult situation in terms of revenue.
It is a shame that others in this House do not share the same view. (DE) Mr President, it must be clear to us all that the health of our animals and, by association, human health must be our prime concern.
My other concern relates to parallel production systems and a huge problem in the marketplace if we have enriched cages coming into production while the current systems remain in production.
I want to repeat that, as of January 2012, conventional cages must be replaced by enriched cages or alternative systems.
Therefore, eggs from conventional cages will not be legally marketable after January 2012.
As I said, on 19 January 2011, we have a big stakeholders' meeting at which representatives of the Member States will discuss the current state of play, and we will see how best we can support Member States who are not in compliance, so that they can complete their compliance by the end of 2011.
