Credit rating agencies (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Commission by Nikolaos Chountis and Jürgen Klute, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on credit rating agencies - B7-0302/2010), the oral question to the Commission by Udo Bullmann, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, on credit rating agencies - B7-0309/2010), the oral question to the Commission by Jean-Paul Gauzès, on behalf of the PPE Group, on credit rating agencies - B7-0312/2010), and the oral question to the Commission by Sylvie Goulard, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on credit rating agencies - B7-0313/2010).
Mr President, today's debate in the European Parliament concerns the activities of credit rating agencies and the impact they have on the global and European economy.
The European Union and the European Central Bank have issued regulations granting credit rating agencies, such as Moody's, SnP and Fitch, the right to evaluate not only businesses but also the Member States of the European Union themselves.
Whereas one would have expected the European Commission to limit the role of these agencies, on the contrary, their role was upgraded and formalised in a new regulation in November 2009.
Credit rating agencies had already started to downgrade Greece's credit rating at the beginning of 2009 and, as a result, it pays double the interest rate it paid before and has entered a vicious circle of depreciation and speculative borrowing.
The insurance fund of the State of Ohio alone lost USD 450 million.
I believe that the European Parliament should, at long last, accept its responsibilities, intervene and demand that the European Commission and the Council, having consulted the European Parliament, legislate directly to put an end to this unacceptable situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament is seeking to draw attention with this oral question to the problems concerning credit rating agencies.
Our aim is to find out from the European Commission what the next steps will be, starting with the possibility of creating a European credit rating agency which we support and feel is taking shape, partly in the light of what President Barroso himself has said on this issue.
We must give praise where praise is due and acknowledge that credit rating agencies have achieved virtually the impossible: they have managed to play a decisive role both in the very early stages of the 2008 financial crisis, during the collapse of Lehman Brothers, and now at this second stage, which began with the debt crisis in Greece.
In 2008, they disregarded - and, in some cases, even promoted - the risks of toxic products, and now they have decided to do their bit for the stability of the markets by slashing the ratings of Greece, Portugal and Spain, just when the negotiations between the European Union, the IMF and the Greek Government were under way.
President Sarkozy and Chancellor Merkel - and I shall conclude here - have officially asked the European Commission to draft some proposals to strengthen competition in the credit rating market.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, credit rating agencies were a matter of concern to this Parliament at the end of its previous term, and I should like to highlight in this regard the responsiveness of both the Commission and Parliament, which has adopted a regulation on credit rating agencies.
Nevertheless, I believe that we must examine this issue with a clear head.
From this point of view, the 2009 regulation does not really provide a solution since the idea was to provide for both the approval and the supervision of credit rating agencies.
I believe that the texts that you will propose - I would emphasise, Commissioner, that you have just submitted the text on the introduction of European supervision of credit rating agencies within the framework of the new financial regulation - must enable a solution to be found to these issues, especially that of competition in the field of credit rating agencies.
There are ratings of private enterprises, and there are ratings of sovereign debt.
In fact, what needs to be done is to implement a preventive system that will force credit rating agencies to inform the supervisor, within a very short timescale, if need be, of the conditions in which they envisage issuing ratings so that the supervisor can verify both that the standard procedures have been followed and, above all, that the conditions in which the ratings are issued will not adversely affect the situation as regards, in particular, sovereign debt.
I believe that the Member States must adopt a serious approach.
I also had the opportunity, on 20 April, to speak to you about this issue of credit rating agencies and their importance for the functioning of the economy and of the financial markets.
When it comes to checking whether a product, a business, and, if necessary, a State - I refer here to sovereign risk, and I shall come back to this subject - is in good health or has a fever, you will agree with me, Mrs Goulard, ladies and gentlemen, that breaking the thermometer does not cure the fever.
I feel that there is plenty to say about the functioning of the thermometer and, hence, about the functioning of credit rating agencies, which play a major role in assessing the risks associated with the situation of businesses and States alike.
Two weeks ago, on 2 June - this is the second stage - the Commission, at my instigation, adopted a proposed amendment to the regulation on credit rating agencies in order to entrust the future European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) with sole responsibility for the ongoing registration and supervision of credit rating agencies.
However, ESMA still needs to be set up, and I fully agree with what was said a moment ago by Mrs Goulard and which you all believe: as we discussed recently with the rapporteurs for the supervision package, for the de Larosière package, a dynamic, credible compromise must be reached between Parliament and the Council in order to implement what has been proposed, which is the creation of these three independent authorities on 1 January.
In other words, when an agency receives information enabling it to work out its credit rating on structured products, the other agencies will have the right to use that information to work out their own rating.
I, like all of you, ladies and gentlemen, believe that there is a problem, and it is quite simply to do with the diversity of this market.
There is not enough competition in this sector, and that worries us.
In addition, we will table some legislative proposals at the end of this year or at the very start of 2011, not only to continue - I am echoing what you said, Mrs Goulard - what was begun by my predecessor with your support, which is being implemented but which is not enough, but also to achieve a greater degree of transparency so as to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure that these ratings are greater in number, more diverse and, when it comes to sovereign risk, above reproach.
The role that the credit rating agencies are playing in the debt and public deficit crisis, revealing the discretional nature of the methods used for their ratings, how they are prepared and how they are communicated; the highly pro-cyclical impact of the ratings of agencies that have sometimes been described as pyromaniac firemen who stoke the fires even further; and their clash with the positions of the main international and European financial institutions to the extent that the European Central Bank has decided to disregard their ratings in sovereign debt transactions: all of these make it necessary to reconsider their role in a more in-depth way and match them up to the general interests.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, not so long ago, voices were raised to say that rating agencies should not have downgraded Greek and other bonds. 'Look at what it has done to the euro,' they said.
Then this morning, in the debate on statistics, Commissioner Rehn said yesterday's downgrade by Moody's was not 'conveniently timed' and that that would influence Commission thinking on credit rating agency regulation.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, it was clear very early in the financial crisis that there had been huge failings on the part of credit rating agencies.
To conclude, I would like to point out that countries and companies are just not comparable.
The question is, who would these fool?
The Commission regulation of September 2009 has, as ever, gone unheeded.
In other words, they require obscurity and secrecy.
Knowing whether it is investors or issuers that have to pay the agencies, and whether the latter have to be private or public, independent or supervised, solves nothing.
This means that we need seed-funding that could be provided by the European Investment Bank or perhaps the Commission, and from that point on, this European foundation would have to finance itself.
Even in this crisis, the level of AAA defaults in structured credits in Europe is less than 0.3%, which means that 99.9% of AAAs have not defaulted.
We do need to look at our rating agencies, but please remember that they have not got everything wrong. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that credit rating agencies should be made more transparent and accountable, but I do not agree with all those who would like to limit their scope and functions.
I believe in the free market and I believe that a greater degree of openness and competition is desirable in the credit rating sector too.
The data and the policies adopted demonstrate how, in Europe and in many countries, there was a belief that we could substitute the real economy with finance, thus, in effect, abandoning the entire manufacturing sector. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, today's debate on the framework for the supervision and operational control of credit rating agencies is, unfortunately, even more topical following yesterday's decision by Moody's to downgrade Greece's credit rating by a full 4 points.
On the other hand, it is good that the Commission, understanding that we need to restore faith in the market and increase investor protection, is providing new EU-wide rules laying down general procedures for the regulation of credit rating agencies.
The regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Credit Rating Agencies introduced in 2009 was devised as a response for regulating their activities.
In these circumstances, I think that an exclusive European credit rating agency needs to be created, which will provide real competition and an alternative instrument for existing companies. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, we all know that it is downright absurd that two private US firms and one from the UK should be making decisions about the bankruptcies of EU Member States.
I wish to end by saying that the European Union must ensure that the activities of credit rating agencies will be better regulated in future. (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, I have been listening very carefully to this afternoon's debate on rating agencies, and I am definitely no supporter of rating agencies, nor am I their advocate.
Perhaps if we were to develop our ideas further in that direction, we would have fewer concerns over rating agencies. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again for giving me the opportunity to speak in this debate, which comes days after yet another downgrading of the Greek debt by a credit rating agency.
The challenge lies in ensuring that these credit rating agencies carry out their activities transparently and in accordance with common standards, because an error on their part could actually cause a company to go bankrupt or could be a significant factor in the onset of a new crisis.
Finding a balanced solution is therefore, in my view, the right way to ensure a better future, including in Europe. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, yesterday's downgrading of Greece's credit rating by Moody's does indeed raise numerous questions, as other members have said.
Most action taken by private individuals against these specific agencies in the United States of America is unfounded, due to a 1933 law which stipulates that rating agencies are not liable for money lost as a result of erroneous ratings.
We must understand that a free economy does not mean the law of the jungle, it does not mean unaccountability.
I shall not go back over the role of these agencies or the importance of the ratings that they issue; Mrs Comi gave a very good account of this just now.
We shall achieve this, we must achieve this, but it does not mean that undertakings, especially financial undertakings, will not have to be managed properly, will not have to have both internal and external supervision systems, and crisis management tools - this also forms part of the proposals drawn up by the Commission - and it does not mean, either, that States will not have to govern themselves properly, will not have to manage their public finances properly and will not have to control their spending.
Diversification, greater competition - Mrs Swinburne and Mr Scicluna referred to this need for a market of agencies that is not concentrated in the hands of a few people.
This is one of the key aspects, in fact, since we need ESMA to supervise these agencies, and to do other things besides.
The various ratings, and all the attention focused on them, the disputes, too, over the methodologies and the timings: all of that encourages me in our work of reforming the agencies, work that we have begun, as I indicated in our communication of 2 June, and I would point out that we will be tabling some legislative proposals on these issues at the latest by the end of the year or at the start of next year.
