The issue with which we are concerned results from the general crisis being experienced by the entire agricultural sector.
As we know today, we are experiencing a crisis and, above all, seeing a fall in prices and agricultural revenues that is affecting cereal producers, livestock producers, whether pork or beef producers, and also - and I say this on behalf of Mr De Castro - olive oil producers, and which is hitting and has hit dairy producers extremely hard.
Faced with this crisis and this price fall, it goes without saying that Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development wishes to find out from the Commission what we can do right now and in the future to escape this crisis and, above all, what measures could be adopted in the coming months to support farmers and to ensure that the agricultural markets are less volatile.
The first question that I would like to ask the Commissioner is more specifically about the dairy crisis: what is the situation with regard to the measures adopted by Parliament and the Council concerning this dairy crisis and, in particular, to the application of the famous EUR 300 million milk fund that had been agreed?
As I was saying, all types of production are currently being hit by a price fall and a deep crisis in the markets.
Therefore, this is a situation that we have seldom encountered on the European market.
This crisis has affected the dairy sector in particular.
However, as Mr Le Foll pointed out, a EUR 300 million fund was also mobilised to enable the Member States to come to the aid of the dairy sector's worst-affected producers.
I think that the current situation shows us that this intervention has been successful, because prices have stabilised.
Those, then, are the measures that have already been taken.
I do not wish to wait for the common agricultural policy post-2013 reform, when we will certainly come here with more solid answers for the entire agricultural sector.
I will not wait for the conclusion of the common agricultural policy 2013 reform to make specific proposals for the dairy sector, on the basis of the conclusions of the high-level group that was created last year in the wake of this crisis and whose work is now under way.
Immediately afterwards, in July, I will propose a debate to the Council of Ministers of Agriculture and to Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the basis of these findings.
We will, of course, learn lessons from this for other agricultural sectors in which we will have to intervene.
The Commission pays close attention to the development of the markets in other sectors.
Using the intervention methods that we currently have at our disposal - mechanisms for intervening in the markets, used in particular as safety nets - we will do our best to prevent a repeat of situations similar to that which has hit the dairy sector.
Both farmers and agricultural policy makers must be able to accommodate major producer price fluctuations in all areas in future, not just in the dairy sector.
Barely six months ago today I, along with Mr Le Foll and a few other colleagues, signed an amendment on this issue and on serious volatility, which aimed to reduce the 1% increase that had been decided on, in particular, for milk production, since we are, in fact, in a period of overproduction.
The high-level group is meeting and its members are, as I understand it, high-calibre individuals: it is not just producers who are represented, but distributors too.
Beyond the dairy sector, all agricultural sectors are being affected by volatility, and I would also be so bold as to say that prices are high.
Commissioner, this being so, I would like to know - even if it is a little premature - if you really do intend in the future to implement, in all other areas of production, the regulatory mechanisms that are keenly awaited by producers.
Mr President, Mr Cioloş, things are relatively peaceful at the moment in the countryside, not because farmers are contented, but because many farmers are currently very frustrated.
We agree that we urgently need a clear policy statement about how we can regulate markets better in future.
It is clear that Canada has what many farmers and many consumers believe is a tried-and-tested model.
We should not exclude this from the discussion right at the outset.
As part of the change in the direction of our policy, we must make sure that we put policies in place for regional markets.
I think it is very timely, and the recent crisis in the dairy sector, which crippled so many of our farmers across the European Union, certainly demonstrated the serious volatility which can affect our agriculture markets.
The effects of the dramatic drop in the price of milk in 2009 were compounded by the EU's inability to react swiftly enough to the situation.
In my opinion, we need to adopt a two-fold approach in order to attempt to mitigate the effects of depressed prices on our farmers.
Firstly, we need to agree upon a set minimum safety net for all sectors which are vulnerable to price fluctuations.
The imminent reform of the CAP gives us a real opportunity to address these issues.
However, a reformed CAP must be able to respond to various crises in agriculture in order to stabilise the markets and ensure a fair income for our farmers. (EL) Mr President, I am starting from the assumption that there is a great deal of instability in the agricultural markets.
Also, in my opinion, we need to 'arm' the CAP with a financial mechanism to deal with crisis situations, a sort of crisis management fund.
Guaranteeing producers' incomes depends, above all, on safeguarding transparency in the food supply chain.
Can we be satisfied, then, with the current economic situation of our rural areas and our farmers?
A few days ago, Commissioner, a senior official gave me the following figures for his département - as it happens, this is a French département that you know well, a livestock farming department.
Despite the situation in Europe, meat, certain cereals, fruits and vegetables are all affected.
The recent agreement between the European Union and the Andean countries, in particular, Peru and Colombia, will sacrifice the producers of the outermost regions.
We are also seeing a strange phenomenon: oil is bought wholesale for EUR 2 and we find that it is retailing in supermarkets for EUR 2 or less.
Commissioner, I will conclude by telling you that those who own land today own it not because they won it in a lottery, but because it was handed down to them by their father or grandfather, who cultivated that land, who poured their sweat and blood into it, and left it to their son.
The period after 2013 seems particularly alarming, for example, because of the withdrawal of export subsidies and milk quotas, as well as the increase in imports from other countries.
Now we need to examine how we will be able to put the new administrative tools for the market into use: for example, the many different measures for developing an income insurance system, making producers and businesses stronger and improving the transparency of the market. (DE) Mr President, Mr Cioloş, I have in front of me an analysis of the economic situation in the German agricultural sector.
The analysis involved the evaluation of 19 100 sets of accounts from full-time and part-time farms.
The results have been projected on the basis of the distribution of farms from the Farm Structure Survey of 2007.
In the financial year 2008-2009, the overall situation deteriorated significantly.
The figures for the 18 200 full-time dairy and arable farms fell from EUR 45 400 to EUR 34 400.
Operating results fell to EUR 29 300 (minus 45%) and to EUR 43 000 (minus 18%).
Moreover, as Mr Le Foll said at the start of his speech, we should consider implementing mechanisms for regulating the markets as part of the common agricultural policy post-2013.
There are other objectives of course, but those are the fundamental ones that we must take into account.
Measures to regulate the markets that will enable us to avoid situations of price or market volatility or to intervene in such situations will be the focus of our concerns and of the proposals that the Commission will make as part of the CAP post-2013.
I think that I have more or less covered all the speeches and all the problems that were raised.
The debate is only just beginning.
Written statements (Rule 149) There has been a fall in prices in various agricultural markets in recent months as a result of the economic and financial crisis that has affected the EU, which, in turn, has affected demand for those products.
Lower prices benefit consumers and, in the medium term, will lead to increased demand, but in the meantime, many producers are being badly hit.
It is a fact that today, our farmers are faced with overwhelming obstacles when it comes to achieving a fair price for their produce.
Currently, price fluctuations are no longer so large, but this does not mean the problems have disappeared.
In June, we expect a decision of the High Level Group, which will present its reflections and thoughts on improvement of the situation in the dairy sector.
