General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean Agreement Area (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Crescenzio Rivellini, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain provisions for fishing in the GFCM (General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean) Agreement Area - C7-0204/2009 - (Α7-0023/2011).
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to incorporate some of the recommendations adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) to help improve legal certainty while taking an important step towards simplification.
Moreover, vessels authorised to participate in the common dolphinfish fishery are to be granted a special fishing permit and included in a list to be provided to the Commission by the Member State concerned (Article 13).
With regard to fishing gear, the proposal for a regulation specifies in detail the minimum mesh size to be used in the Mediterranean Sea (Article 15) and the Black Sea (Article 16) and prohibits the use of towed dredgers and trawl nets at depths below 1 000 metres (Article 17).
In Title V (Final provisions), Article 28 allows the Commission, through a concession by the European Parliament and Council, to amend, by means of delegated acts, provisions that concern non-essential elements of the legislative act, in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
For this reason, I believe that Article 28 on delegated acts is a good compromise that will, in any case, be debated again with the Council at second reading, in order to find a final agreement.
With regard to fishing gear, the text specifies the minimum mesh size to be used in the Mediterranean Sea and the Black Sea and prohibits the use of towed dredgers and trawl nets at depths below 1 000 metres.
The Commission must present a report to Parliament and the Council by 30 June 2012 on the implementation of this provision, to which it must propose adaptations.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, the last two decades of implementation of the CFP have shown that dealing with Mediterranean fisheries separately through mesh-specific regulations only perpetuates the double standard in fisheries management in Europe: Atlantic versus Mediterranean.
The ECR fully supports this report and I again thank Commissioner Damanaki for committing herself to abolishing discards. (PL) Mr President, in today's debate, we should stress that the Mediterranean Sea, uniquely in the world, is surrounded by land belonging to three continents.
This creates a situation where the most important issue in the management of fishery resources for the European Union is the regulation of provisions relating to catches, the issuing of licences and the development of control methods for ships using this area.
Fishing and navigation have been flourishing here for over one thousand years, benefiting from the rich marine fauna of the Mediterranean Sea.
However, I have the distinct feeling that the fact that we cannot resolve this issue on first reading and will move to a second reading, particularly over the interpretation of Article 28 of this regulation, raises one question: Parliament is siding with the Commission this time.
Parliament is saying in essence that it is a good thing for these delegated acts to be the responsibility of the Commission and there is some resistance by the Council and, by the way, its absence today is significant.
Hopefully, what we are doing here, by way of adopting this report and putting it in place, is providing a simplified, workable, effective framework for the Mediterranean and for the Black Sea. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the rapporteur over the need to simplify fishing rules with a regulation that can implement the recommendations adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean.
In conclusion, I should like to call on all representatives of the 27 Member States and the Commission to consider making these instruments more flexible to give the local fishing industry what it needs to survive. (PT) Mr President, this proposal for a regulation aims to transpose into a single document the recommendations adopted by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM), which seek to promote the proper management of the Mediterranean basin by making all those with influence over it participate and take responsibility.
The majority of this proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is positive.
The proper application of the recommendations that will be in force if this proposal for a regulation is adopted will enable the aforementioned objectives to be achieved, while ensuring equal treatment for all the fleets involved in these fisheries. (PT) Mr President, we would like to draw attention here to an aspect of this proposal for a regulation which we consider of the greatest importance and which, unfortunately, we cannot accept.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank everybody for their interventions and to make two brief remarks.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Tuesday, 8 March 2011).
