Commission communication on Action against Cancer: European Partnership (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Peterle, on behalf of the Committee on Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Commission communication on 'Action against Cancer: European Partnership' -.
The epidemic spread of cancer is making it the number one disease in the Union and one in three citizens of the Union will encounter it.
It is an astonishing and worrying fact that, on average, Member States invest a mere 3% of their health budgets in cancer prevention.
The Citizens of the European Union find it difficult to accept that there are such differences in the level of organisation of the fight against cancer given that some Member States have national programmes, while others do not.
The third key word in the report is partnership.
Of course we will continue our strong focus on prevention through our policies on health determinants as part of the fight against cancer.
I would like to take this opportunity to endorse the aims of the European partnership envisaged by the European Commission in order to combat cancer more effectively, whether it be in terms of the importance of prevention and early detection, the creation of a new cancer prevention model or, above all, a reduction in the inequalities within the Member States.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Thank you, Mr President, Commissioner and rapporteur.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (DA) Mr President, cancer is a widespread disease that, thanks to some intensive research, we are starting to know a great deal about.
The European Commission's involvement in the partnership created to promote action against cancer offers a new chance of life to those affected by this terrible disease and to their families.
The European partnership for action against cancer must therefore ensure the proper use of the resources, skills, not to mention funds which are available to all Member States.
It must ensure that the results from the progress made in the battle against cancer in the European Union's various countries are made available to the whole of Europe. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, the fight against cancer must be a priority.
Every year in the European Union there are more than 275 000 women with breast cancer and it has been shown to be increasing, even among younger women.
I think that we must ensure that cancer screening is accessible to as many people as possible so that achieving the target number becomes feasible.
A recent invention, awarded a prize at the International Exhibition of Inventions of Geneva, makes it possible to screen for certain types of cancer in less than six minutes at a cost of less than one euro.
I think that intervention is needed at European level for the benefit of Europe's citizens in order to prevent great differences in terms of diagnostics and treatment in EU Member States.
In conclusion I want to pay tribute to all of those, particularly to those in my own country, who provide such exceptional care to cancer patients. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, health is a precious thing that it is important to preserve.
From head to foot I had 14 tubes dangling out from me, and spent weeks in intensive care; however, I am now here, I am a Member of the European Parliament, I am raising my three children and I am able to live a full life.
Member of the Commission - (MT) Mr President, I am very satisfied with the enthusiasm exhibited in Parliament today towards coming together in this concerted struggle against cancer.
It is important that, since this facility exists in many, if not all, parts of Europe, we must strongly encourage all women to undergo this procedure.
It is a challenge to which we must continue to rise by putting our best resources forward, because the effects of this disease are devastating in terms of mortality but so too are the psychological, social and economic aspects associated with it.
That is why it is important to create a European partnership for action against cancer that will facilitate the exchange of information and coordination among the individual Member States.
The Commission's ambitious target of reducing the burden of neoplastic diseases by 15% between now and 2020 can be considered realistic only if this methodology is applied and bolstered by adequate funding.
in writing. - (FI) The report on the Commission's communication entitled 'Action Against Cancer: European Partnership' is very important and relevant to the times.
The Commission and the Member States need to have the courage to commit to investment in the future, research into cancer and its prevention, because both money and human life will be saved in the long term.
Every third European will be diagnosed with cancer in his or her lifetime, and every fourth European will die as a result of this disease.
Since, in the fight against cancer, it will only be possible to achieve the results laid out in the strategy through long-term and consistent action, I call on all Member States in the present economic crisis not to cut financial resources for the fight against cancer and for the needs of both primary and secondary prevention.
To finish my speech, I would like to welcome the Commission's proposals to relaunch the European partnership initiative for adopting anti-cancer measures in the period 2009-2013, in order to support the anti-cancer action taken by the Member States.
Only through collective effort can we achieve success in fighting an enemy like cancer.
