World Bank energy strategy (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Eva Joly, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the World Bank's energy strategy for developing countries - B70012/2011).
Only renewables can bring a solution to these problems.
The World Bank's energy policy suffers from a lack of transparency.
The overriding goal should be to treat intellectual property rights in a manner that allows access to technology at affordable prices.
Ms Keller, since you have dealt with the issue in more depth than most of us, is there any particular point that makes you optimistic that what we are about to decide upon could actually bring some progress, or that the World Bank is now finally heading in the right direction?
Firstly, I would emphasise that the World Bank energy strategy is very welcome because the World Bank plays a very particular role in the world, particularly in dealing with development issues.
My point is that we should address this issue with all seriousness.
It is true that, although we have been discussing the issue for 20 years, substantial investment in the energy sector or energy service provision have not been delivered to hundreds of millions of people, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.
Whatever the energy sector does should be considered in the light of the consequences that it has on climate change.
As for the orientation, I would expect Parliament to take account of the Green Paper on EU development policy, where we make access to renewable energy in developing countries one of the central pillars of the new EU development policy.
So, if I see anticipation of the prices, I would always argue that renewable energy is definitely the one that should be at the heart of any energy policy in any part of the world.
Our knowledge of renewable technologies today gives a good guarantee that we really could make a change in these countries.
I also believe that there is a lot of untapped potential.
If the EU is able and you discuss a report on the EU development policy's Green Paper, Parliament should strongly support driving EU development policy in this direction.
The World Bank, under the leadership of Bob Zoellick, is extremely active in the debate, so it would seem that the World Bank is an asset and not something that we should be afraid of.
As far as the energy sector is concerned, no projects exist in the area of fossil fuels.
I believe that the EU has already taken some steps in the right direction, but we could really take more steps to provide real leadership for the world, not least by addressing the World Bank's energy strategy.
I believe that we should have the courage to say exactly what Commissioner Piebalgs said, namely, that the World Bank has a very deliberate energy strategy.
Mr President, Commissioner, first, I should like to thank Mrs Keller for her exceptional work on this report.
It is a fact that financing for renewable energy sources has risen by 300%.
Fourthly, and here I need to thank Commissioner Piebalgs for having already addressed one of my concerns in his answer to Mrs Keller, the European Investment Bank already takes all these factors into account.
We are also finding that there will be a possible, putative, change in the World Bank's energy strategy in mid-2011, but we also know that it is in the energy sectors that we can combat poverty in a very specific way, and help to lift people out of poverty.
We also have the promise that this predominance will no longer be a predominance by 2015, and that there will be a gradual reduction in the financing of these projects based on fossil fuels.
The hypocrisy of this debate is totally unbelievable.
I do agree, however, with the idea that it is worth giving particular support to local projects covering small areas, that it is worth supporting low emission projects and that it is worth supporting ideas relating to diversified sources of energy and avoiding energy dependency.
We would like the World Bank to invest in renewable energy and increased energy efficiency, but we must always bear in mind the fundamental goal, or, in other words, how access to energy is supposed to help people break out of poverty.
At the same time, I know that Commissioner Piebalgs places a great deal of emphasis on the development of energy projects in developing countries, and I can confirm that this is discussed in the Green Paper and that the European Parliament should support this strategy. (RO) Mr President, there are currently 1.4 billion people in the world without access to electricity, 85% of whom live in rural areas.
Achieving this goal by 2015 means that 395 million people will have access to electricity and 1 billion people will gain access to hygienic facilities for preparing food.
Rural areas are a special case when it comes to energy requirements.
On 11 February 2011, a World Bank report showed that local energy production from renewable sources at a low production cost is a more viable economic solution in the long term.
I believe that the World Bank should support the projects concerned with boosting energy efficiency and local energy production from renewable sources, as well as extensive projects involving electrification and establishing interconnections between different countries. (LT) Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising in a timely manner what truly is a very relevant issue.
I believe that there is a lot to be done in the field of development cooperation, particularly with regard to technical aid.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this is very important to our debate, even if it is late at night, because I think the World Bank's energy strategy is an opportunity.
If we also look at what the International Energy Agency is saying about energy poverty, about renewable energy, it is certainly a huge challenge, but the World Bank, together with our leadership, could make the necessary change.
We could also submit our contributions to the World Bank, which is very open to new ideas.
I would say it is still access to energy that we should be looking at, because access to energy also means sustainable and efficient energy.
We have energy facilities: EUR 200 million.
You cannot do too much on energy with EUR 200 million.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 February 2011.
