Application of Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council decision on application of all the provisions of the Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania (1412/2010 - C7-0369/2010 - 2010/0820(NLE).
I agree with the remarks that Commissioner Malmström made to this effect a little while ago.
Free movement is thus guaranteed within a territory of almost 43 000 km of external maritime borders and more than 7 700 km of land borders, covering 25 countries and 400 million people.
There needs to be a rapid and adequate exchange of information through the Schengen Information System (SIS), good police cooperation and effective controls in place at the external borders.
The security of the Schengen area depends on the rigour and efficiency with which each Member State carries out checks at its external borders.
Candidate countries must be able to implement and enforce all the Schengen criteria effectively and correctly: the same criteria that were demanded of previous candidate countries; no more, no less.
Parliament demands access to this information.
Since their accession to the EU, in 2007, both Bulgaria and Romania have had a legitimate expectation that their citizens would become fully fledged EU citizens and that they would be able to enjoy the same rights as other EU citizens, including freedom of movement within the Schengen area.
We are therefore able to welcome Bulgaria and Romania into the Schengen area, and I hope that the Council will adopt the same position as soon as it receives our positive opinion.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am particularly glad of the opportunity to participate on behalf of the Council in the debate on the extension of the Schengen area to Bulgaria and Romania.
I am therefore especially pleased that by now, both Bulgaria and Romania have received positive evaluation of their technical preparedness to apply the entirety of the Schengen acquis.
When the accession of Hungary and other new Member States from Central Europe to Schengen was hampered by a technical difficulty related to the development of the Schengen Information System, the SIS II, it was the then Portuguese Presidency that helped us with a generous and inventive solution.
They will, in particular, be looking to reinforce further the controls at their borders and to improve cross-border police cooperation as well as their systems for the issuing of visas.
The report prepared by the rapporteur touches upon the subject of access to classified documents - as was also mentioned by the rapporteur in his introductory remarks - which was an important question in dealing with this dossier.
In that context, it was at the proposal of the Hungarian Presidency that the Council gave its assent so that Parliament could have access to documents pertinent to the accession of the two Member States to the Schengen area.
All in all, the Hungarian Presidency is convinced that the enlargement of the Schengen area to include Bulgaria and Romania, now that they meet all the technical and legal criteria, would be beneficial for the entire Schengen cooperation and for Europe as a whole, where one could travel from the Black Sea to the Atlantic without being stopped to show a passport or identity card.
We all know that this free movement is one of the fundamentals of our European Union - something which is really tangible for our citizens and something of value which we all have to safeguard.
It is one of the most tangible gifts that the European institutions have given to Europe's citizens - the fact that, as the Presidency said, you can actually drive from Finland to Portugal without stopping at any border control.
We must safeguard Schengen and the latest debate on reintroducing borders must be stopped.
The decision to lift internal border controls with Romania and Bulgaria must not only be based on the technical evaluation but also on this trust, and unfortunately, that trust is not there today.
That is why it was so important, as the Presidency outlined, to work with Member States to find a swift solution to this so that borders could be lifted as soon as possible.
The Council, which has the say on this, must define a clear framework with clear timetables related to border control so that Romania and Bulgaria can see a way forward.
They have demonstrated that they are ready to join, that they have made the necessary progress, and hopefully there will very soon be a possibility to achieve a way forward and a decision by the Council.
I also thank the Hungarian Presidency and Commissioner Malmström for the support they have given to this report.
There is no moral or legal argument which will make us change the rules for joining now at the end.
The rules can be improved when approving the new Schengen evaluation mechanism applicable to all Member States, without resorting to double standards.
The EU institutions must be the voice of reason and combat this distraction which some are attempting to create.
Institutional cooperation must be fair, logical and democratic.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I would like to say to the Commissioner that European citizens are losing confidence and trust in more and more European programmes.
Of course, I must stress that this debate should not be used as an excuse to criticise either Bulgaria or Romania, who we know have been working very hard to meet the technical criteria that the Commission has set.
Bulgaria and Romania are fully prepared to join the area of free travel in 2011.
The file on that evaluation is thus crucial.
I suggest that we need to suspend the entry process to the Schengen scheme for Bulgaria and Romania as a precaution, not least in view of the foreseeably enormous pressure on the external borders of these two countries, which are becoming the holes in the Swiss cheese that is the European Union system regarding the entry of illegal immigrants. (NL) Mr President, I will get straight to the point.
Commissioner Malmström may well idealistically muse how sacrosanct the Schengen acquis is, while the majority in Parliament may well drily consider how marvellous it would be if Bulgaria and Romania were to join the Schengen area, but it is just not realistic.
I also thank the Presidency and Commission for their support on this report.
The process for evaluating these countries and their accession must be completed according to the same criteria with which it started.
It was already established in 2007 that, once the technical criteria were fulfilled, Bulgaria and Romania would join the Schengen area in 2011.
The rapporteur and other fellow Members were there and they understand what I am talking about.
I have to say that both the inspection report and the opinion of the rapporteur himself are positive, and that we should thank them, while, at the same time, also expressing our exasperation.
Bulgaria and Romania are fully-fledged Member States of the European Union and our approach to them must be the same as to any other EU Member State.
So, if you think about the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, and if we vote on it tomorrow, I would be delighted if you could view it in the same way as you view your own countries. (BG) Mr President, we are concluding during this session our evaluation of Bulgaria's and Romania's readiness to join the Schengen area.
The overwhelming expectation is that Parliament's evaluation concurs with the positive position of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and that the citizens of both countries, Bulgaria and Romania, feel that their institutions have done what they need to do and that the light to proceed down 'Schengen Road' is already green.
Only when the Roma pitch their caravans on the front lawns of our out-of-touch political class might they change their views on the benefits of EU membership. (NL) Mr President, I fear that the European Parliament will once again be showing its most naive side by approving the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the Schengen area.
There is a recent report from Europol about organised crime which stated that criminal groups from Albania, Turkey and the former Soviet Union will exploit the opportunities that the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area will bring.
Those citizens of Romania and Bulgaria who travel to Schengen countries with good intentions will, in any case - and I am convinced of this - understand that the inconvenience of border controls is outweighed by the necessity of protecting all other Europeans against organised crime and mass illegal immigration. (RO) Mr President, Romania's accession to the Schengen area is a project which has involved major financial, institutional and human efforts, as it is one of Romania's most important political objectives.
A unique application has been developed in Europe which allows data to be processed in both SIS I and SIS II.
In summary, this proposal is simply a border too far. (IT) Mr President, while Europe pretends not to notice, the 2011 Europol report on organised crime affirms that, with the entry of Romania and Bulgaria into the Schengen area, the powerful criminal organisations of Turkey, Russia and Albania will be able to expand their activities across the whole of Europe.
Whoever votes tomorrow in favour of this report will be responsible for having voted for the opening of a motorway bringing organised crime straight to the heart of Europe. (HU) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that by voting on the Coelho report tomorrow, the European Parliament will give a clear sign that it accepts Romania's and Bulgaria's readiness and supports the accession of these two countries to one of the most important acquis of the European Union, the Schengen area.
The most important message of our debate today for Member States must be that Romania and Bulgaria meet the same accession criteria that the European Union expected from countries that have joined so far.
It must be emphasised that we cannot impose more requirements for Romania and Bulgaria than we have done in the case of the previous Schengen accession.
For me as a Social Democrat, it goes without saying that all EU Member States that meet all of the stringent requirements for cooperation should be allowed to join.
Just recently, Commissioner Malmström presented a package for combating corruption that we can use as a basis for further work.
Likewise, the fight against organised crime requires more cooperation, not more closed doors. (Applause) (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, Schengen is certainly an heirloom of civilisation of the highest value.
The Schengen area should therefore be consolidated and strengthened further.
The Schengen acquis is, therefore, a fundamental instrument for the legal economy, and I am convinced that on 24 June this year, the Council will take important points for reflection from what is intended to be a strengthening of trust and collaboration between Member States.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs recommends that the Council should approve the two countries joining the Schengen area.
However, this is why there are foreign policy criteria and possible resignations from Bulgarian ministers.
Well done again to Mr Coelho on his report. (RO) Mr President, I think that the states which have expressed their reservations about Romania and Bulgaria joining the Schengen area must not forget that this process is a legal obligation stipulated by the Treaty of Accession to the European Union for Romania and Bulgaria, which all these countries have assumed by signing the Treaty.
This connection will allow all Union countries to have access to online data about stowaways attempting to reach Europe and ensure more effective control at the European Union's external borders. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, we are all aware that both of these countries - Romania and Bulgaria - have invested a great deal in securing the external borders of the European Union.
Our rapporteur also performed a review on the ground.
That is why we will not only be voting in favour of the report but we will also be giving our consent for both these countries to join the Schengen area.
The Schengen area is also an area of confidence, however.
That means that not everything is completed with a single, one-off action but that confidence must be built over the long run; investment in security must be ensured over the long term.
I hope that this confidence remains secure over the long term so that we are able to maintain this freedom of travel, this freedom of movement within the European Union as a major public good over the long term.
I therefore hope that my information is inaccurate and that the police, who are performing a service in the interests of these countries and of the security of the entire European Union, will continue to be well paid in the future, too, so that they are not susceptible to bribery. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, according to the Coelho report, Romania and Bulgaria are, based on the evaluation reports, sufficiently prepared to apply the provisions of the Schengen acquis to their land, sea and air borders.
They satisfy the basic requirements and the same criteria as other Member States for full integration into the Schengen area.
In supporting the full integration of these countries, we are demonstrating our Community solidarity and supporting the European idea and the fundamental right of the freedom of movement of citizens within the European Union, thereby creating a stronger Europe.
The topical dialogue on updating the Schengen Agreement must take account of the above challenges. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, involvement in the Schengen area means assuming responsibility.
Bulgaria and Romania must be admitted so that they can assume their share of the responsibility, along with the other Member States, for protecting Europe's borders.
Commissioner Malmström mentioned trust.
You said, Commissioner, that Schengen is an important gift for all European citizens, but it is also an important tool for not 'less' but for 'more' Europe.
I strongly believe that the European Parliament will adopt this report tomorrow and that the Council will act accordingly as soon as possible. (Applause) (HU) - Mr President, the Coelho report determines that both Romania and Bulgaria have proven that they have prepared properly for the appropriate application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis.
However, the date of their accession to the Schengen area is still uncertain, as some Member States believe that despite the repeated assessments by various European Union institutions, their accession could cause problems in the Schengen system.
Romanian and Bulgarian citizens rightly expect to be able to enjoy the benefits of the Schengen acquis as full European Union citizens.
The same criteria which have also applied to the other Member States must apply to our countries.
Europe must combat this as a whole because four out of every five European citizens consider that corruption is a fundamental problem in their country.
I pray to God that I am wrong. (RO) Mr President, the report we have before us today is objective and fair, highlighting that Romania and Bulgaria are fully prepared technically to join the Schengen area.
However, how can we talk about mutual trust when some Member States are changing the rules of the game midway by introducing new criteria for joining Schengen?
Parliament must send the Council a clear message in this respect and insist on a definite date for accession. (RO) Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur who, in this case, has drafted an extremely important report, but also extremely difficult at the same time, due to the fact that we have conflicting views on this matter regarding the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area.
The technical conditions seem to be met, but the reason would be because it is a controversial policy domestically.
This situation is unacceptable. (EL) Mr President, I consider that the credibility of the European Union rests on the uniform application of the rules.
I repeat my firm position that Dublin II needs to be revised and the Frontex operational office in Greece needs to operate on a permanent basis. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, the Schengen Agreement, as we know, must not promote mass immigration into the social systems and the freedom of travel must not lead to an increase in crime and illegal immigration.
The fight against organised crime and the improvement of border protection must finally be more valued in the European Union.
The overhasty accession to Schengen for these countries should therefore be rejected, as the main beneficiaries of this could be organised crime from eastern Europe and even from the Caucasus region.
What the European Union is saying to them is: 'Yes' to equal treatment for all Member States, 'Yes' to identical rules and 'Yes' to the same consideration for the results achieved.
This is why we must remember today that the current debate is about rules which must be the same for everyone, about equality between Member States enshrined in the Treaty of the European Union and, last but not least, about Europe's so widely acclaimed solidarity.
Let us remember therefore that huge groups of illegal immigrants are crossing ... (The President cut off the speaker) (BG) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Coelho, on an exceptionally balanced, positive report.
However, success in tackling these problems will only be achieved when all 27 countries combine their efforts.
It was very important for us to feel your support throughout the entire past five months.
On the other hand, we were continuously in touch with countries that expressed doubts about the accession of Romania and Bulgaria.
On the other hand, that both candidate countries continue their efforts and keep proving that they are capable of defending the external borders of the European Union.
The Commission will issue a certificate concerning the fight against organised crime and corruption.
We have fought all along for this not to be laid down as a condition, but it will definitely support the building of mutual trust.
As such, I am convinced that a positive CVM will promote a positive political decision regarding the Schengen expansion as well.
For instance, some are saying that with the Romanian-Bulgarian accession, the Roma population will begin to move from these two countries.
It is perfectly legitimate for their citizens to be seen as full European citizens.
We are therefore advocating a new system of evaluation for Schengen in order to be able to identify problems, respond accordingly, and make decisions if the problems persist.
I hope that Council will recognise that when the assembly representing European citizens says yes with a large majority to Bulgaria and Romania, as I hope it will, the Council should follow suit as soon as possible.
The vote will take place on 8 June 2011.
If Bulgaria and Romania are subject to more criteria than other EU Member States in order to join the Schengen area, then we will be creating double standards.
Countries joining the Schengen area must continue to comply with all security requirements because the security of the Schengen area really depends on the rigour and effectiveness with which each Member State carries out controls at its external borders, as well as on the quality and speed with which information is exchanged through the Schengen Information Service.
Therefore, in order to remove controls at internal borders, it is necessary for the Member States to cooperate as much as possible and take the necessary action, particularly when increasing migration flows, because the security of the Schengen area depends on the rigour and effectiveness with which each Member State carries out controls at its external borders.
The Schengen Agreement is already opening all the doors to Europe to organised crime and illegal immigration.
The existence of effective controls along our external borders must be an important factor inasmuch as the security of the Schengen area depends on the efficiency with which each Member State controls its external borders.
The European Parliament must adopt a position on principle, which is that the rules of the game cannot be changed midway.
