Revision of the Treaties - Transitional measures concerning the composition of the European Parliament - Decision not to convene a Convention for the revision of the Treaties with regard to transitional measures concerning the composition of the European Parliament (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mr Méndez de Vigo on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the draft protocol amending Protocol No 36 on transitional provisions concerning the composition of the European Parliament for the rest of the 2009-2014 parliamentary term: the European Parliament's opinion (Article 48(3) of the EU Treaty) [17196/2009 - C7-0001/2010 - 2009/0813(NLE)], and the report by Mr Méndez de Vigo on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the recommendation on the European Council's proposal not to convene a Convention for the revision of the Treaties with regard to transitional measures concerning the composition of the European Parliament [17196/2009 - C7-0002/2010 - 2009/0814(NLE)].
Mr President, please allow me to begin my speech with a line from Rilke: 'Herr, es ist Zeit.
To complicate matters even further, Mr President, the 1976 Act lays down that an MEP's mandate lasts for five years.
Therefore, that Intergovernmental Conference will confine itself to something that has already been agreed: how to distribute those 18 MEPs among 12 countries.
Mr President, I wish to express my satisfaction at the fact that the European Parliament, through the auspices of my dear colleague and friend, Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, shares the opinion of the European Council in the sense that in order to bring about the proposed change to Protocol (No 36) of the Treaty of Lisbon there is no need to call a Convention, given that we are dealing with a minor change, albeit one that is essential to enable the presence in this Chamber, before the next elections are held, of the number of MEPs that should have been here if the Treaty of Lisbon had been in force.
I would also like to express the hope of the Commission that the limited Treaty changes to be discussed at this IGC will be agreed quickly and the ratification by Member States will allow the additional 18 MEPs to take up their mandate as soon as possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief since the committee I chair reached a very comprehensive agreement, in line with what has already been said, and so there is no need to make the debate too long-winded.
The problem which arose and was discussed in committee mainly concerned the following: both the Electoral Act of 1976 and the Treaty of Lisbon require Members of this Parliament to be directly elected by the peoples of the various nations.
It therefore mandates the Council to convene an Intergovernmental Conference and to revise the Treaty, thus giving rise to the possibility that the 27 countries ratify the revision, thereby enabling the 18 MEPs to come here and the 12 countries involved to attain their full level of parliamentary representation.
This is what we are dealing with, but there is a problem.
I think that this problem that has come up, which must be examined and presented realistically, has been satisfactorily resolved.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I welcome this report and its conclusion that there is no need for a constitutional convention.
If the Member States do not wish to hold by-elections, they should simply consider the outcome of the election that took place in 2009 and apply, on a proportionate basis, the outcome of that vote to the new number of MEPs who have just been assigned to them.
We must refuse to undermine our legitimacy and our credibility as elected representatives of the European public.
We had a problem with designating an additional 18 Members of this House because certain Member States did not actually plan for a procedure, but we decided that representativeness is the most important issue, that this is the principle which we should be guided by and that this House should have a balanced representation as quickly as possible.
That is why we believe that this issue should be resolved via an intergovernmental conference that could quickly approve the appointment of these Members.
European citizens rightfully expect us to do our job efficiently and transparently.
It should once again be highlighted here that we have the very clear task of finding a solution as quickly as possible so that freely elected Members - 18 of them in fact - can start their work as soon as possible.
It is important that all the additional Members enter Parliament at the same time, in order for our institution to avoid accusations of functioning improperly. (SL) I, too, would like to join those of you who wish to emphasise the need for the European Parliament to be fully representative and to work with a full complement of members as soon as possible.
I believe that we are still not fully represented given the amendment to the Treaty of Lisbon, which is our constitution.
Madam President, I would merely like to add that I agree with those speeches made by honourable Members who have expressed the importance of resolving this outstanding issue as regards the Treaty of Lisbon, namely, the case of the 18 MEPs who have still to take their seats in Parliament because the last elections were held a little before the Treaty of Lisbon came into force.
That is why, in the last analysis, I agree with Mr Méndez de Vigo, who proposes that there is no need for a Convention, that an Intergovernmental Conference be called as soon as possible, that the 27 Member States' parliaments ratify the decision at the earliest opportunity, and that, as a result, the 18 MEPs in question can be seen in this Parliament, as they should have been here from the outset of this parliamentary term.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I think that this debate has clearly demonstrated that we are trying to resolve an exceptional situation, that we are looking for a practical solution and that this is the solution for the transition.
In order for them to enter en bloc, in order to comply with this act of political justice that is the Treaty of Lisbon, we have to be practical, because a transitional and exceptional situation, ladies and gentlemen, also requires transitional and exceptional situations and solutions.
The vote will take place on Thursday 6 May 2010 at 11.00.
In my opinion, the European Parliament is under an obligation to decide as quickly as possible about this, to enable our future fellow Members, who have been democratically elected, to take their seats.
