In 2013, this European stability mechanism will replace the current temporary stability instruments - the European financial stability fund and the European financial stability mechanism - and we all know how useful they are.
This being so, and as I emphasised myself during the last European Council, every initiative - including those concerning the competitiveness and convergence of the European economy, and I say competitiveness and convergence because this is also about the convergence of our economies - every initiative, I said, must respect the Treaty as well as the principles and rules that have been established for the Union and for its institutions.
The Commission will therefore take every initiative - legislative or otherwise - to guarantee consistency between the future stability mechanism and the economic governance carried out by the Union within the euro area.
Throughout the discussions on the limited draft modification to the Treaty, the Commission said that this modification would in no way harm the solidarity mechanisms provided for in Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the event of difficulties or a serious threat of difficulties in a Member State.
As a consequence, and contrary to some people's opinions, Article 122 is not undergoing any modification.
The economic governance carried out by the Union within the euro area will thus constitute the basis on which the future stability mechanism will necessarily have to rest.
The Commission will play its full role, and intends, in particular, to participate actively in the work of introducing the future European stability mechanism.
This should also be possible in this context and it concerns the Commission in particular.
Parliament must demonstrate that it is responsible and we must do the same within our group.
We know how important the date of 24 March and the following Monday are.
Indeed, on the one hand, the proposed amendment to Article 136 sets out an intergovernmental mechanism that is entirely disconnected from the Union and its institutions, while, on the other, we can read in the opinion of the Commission that the mechanism shall have to rely on economic governance exercised by the Union and that the Commission will take all measures to ensure consistency between the stability mechanism and the aforementioned economic governance.
Secondly, I think that we must also ask ourselves if we can use the amendment of Article 136 in order to strengthen the economic governance package which is currently under discussion.
This problem can also be resolved through Article 136.
This Treaty and the case for more democracy in Europe were supported not only by you, Mr Barroso, but also by those in power in the Member States.
The City of London is the financial capital of Europe.
Once again, I would remind you that there are 27 Member States: 11 of them are net contributors and 16 of them are recipients, and there is a San Andreas fault between those who contribute and those who do not.
We must do something else.
Like others, I am concerned about the mechanism.
Surely they have to wait until June to make that decision? (DE) Mr President, on the one hand, it is important that the Member States are in control of the treaties, which is why the modification must take place at this level.
The democratic legitimacy of our actions at European level, in direct relation to the European Parliament, is determined by the Commission.
The Irish people said 'no' but they were lied to; they were told that their economy would be protected, but they were misled, and now, as the European Union does when it encounters a problem, it does not take a step back to ask 'what have we done wrong?' No, you want further integration and you want the small states to suffer more.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank all the participants in the debate and the Members of the European Parliament for their clear support for a communitarian approach, for a strong European Union, and for an appropriate role in the future mechanism which we are discussing today.
As we stated in our opinion, the Commission also stands ready to use its expertise in handling these mechanisms, because I believe that they should be in full coherence with improved economic governance, especially as regards the coordination and surveillance of economic and financial policies in the Member States, in particular, those of the eurozone.
