Madagascar The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Madagascar.
There is a political crisis in Madagascar and this brings us to the necessity of responding accordingly to the necessities also of the country.
The Maputo Agreement foresees the establishment of a national unity government with a transition period of 15 months.
In this context, we have to remind the Commission and the Member States that to send an election observation operation to Madagascar could be a mistake.
I insist: in this framework, under this consensus and on the basis of the agreement in Maputo, we should not follow this observation election mission.
In its report dated 4 February 2010, Amnesty International shows that parliamentarians, senators, lawyers, leaders of the opposition and journalists have been subject to arrest and arbitrary and illegal detention and that some were mistreated during their arrest, while the authorities have not conducted any enquiries.
We are also calling on the African Union and the Southern African Development Community to resume contact in order to bring the transitional process to a proper conclusion and we call on the Commission to report to us on the consultation process under way with Madagascar under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
author. - (DE) Mr President, there is concern in some of the world's capital cities that our motion for a resolution could lead to an escalation in the situation in Madagascar.
I refer, in particular, to Article 14 and 15, which are quite clearly focused on dialogue.
The international community, however, has been sparing in its efforts, refusing to recognise that this is in fact a coup d'état and that the government put in place by Andry Rajoelina in Madagascar is in fact a military government.
Since 2 February 2009, numerous attempts have been made, including by the UN and the EU, resulting in the Maputo and Addis Ababa agreements.
Instead we have seen the usual vacillation and tepid diplomacy following the fall of President Marc Ravalomanana, which is sadly reminiscent of the situation in Zimbabwe.
It is also crucial that Madagascar does not conclude agreements on natural resources before it has a government with a mandate from the people. (DE) Mr President, on the subject of Madagascar, it is good that we can report that it is not just the European Union that is concerned about this country's compliance with Article 96 of The Cotonou Agreement, but that the African Union and SADC, as regional organisations, have also taken the position that another coup d'état in Africa is unacceptable.
I hope that when the International Contact Group meets again in Addis Ababa, a week today, on 18 February, all the participating parties will fulfil their tasks and powers, and ensure that any agreement reached in Maputo is also implemented.
Since the crisis started and since consultations with Madagascar were opened under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, the Commission has actively supported mediation efforts by the international community, which have translated into considerable progress but which, unfortunately, have still not resulted in an effective transition process.
You will agree that this may of course result in a deterioration in the political and human rights situation and in clashes between Malagasies.
We have clearly indicated, on numerous occasions, that we reject any unilateral process which results in hastily organised elections that will not bring about a lasting solution to the crisis.
We are prepared to evaluate, together with the international community within an international contact group, the response of Malagasy movements and, depending on the situation, to present proposals for decisions to the Council under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
