2011 budget (debate) The next item is the debate on the 2011 budget.
Mr Barroso, Mr Wathelet, Mr Chastel, during the conciliation meetings, the European Parliament and the Council did not manage to reach agreement on the 2011 budget.
We did not want to go beyond the treaty in any way.
We have said that a fast track is possible for Parliament, but only if our expectations concerning procedures for the next budget negotiations are guaranteed.
I would like to emphasise once again that I think the role of the European Commission is crucial.
The reality is that, by looking at things from an accounting point of view rather than from a political point of view, the few Member States that continue to block the negotiations are harming the interests of the 500 million Europeans.
It is also a fact that the current draft budget makes no provision for the financing of the new powers conferred on the Union by the Treaty of Lisbon and fails to fulfil our requests to proceed with the mid-term review of the financial cycle laid down in the 2007-2013 agreement.
I would also stress that reopening the debate on own resources is not a new proposal by Parliament, but a decision taken by the Council itself in May 2006, following the agreement reached in December 2005 under the UK Presidency.
Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) supports the two demands made by the Council on 15 October: for the EU budget to contribute to common financial discipline and for the funding of European objectives to be guaranteed.
That is all we are aiming for in the negotiations on the 2011 budget, and we are confident that an agreement can be reached if the Council Presidency negotiates effectively with its colleagues in Brussels. (Applause) Mr President, I think that the crisis in which we currently find ourselves was triggered by events in Deauville.
Therefore, this budget or budget debate is also a debate about the direction in which the European Union should develop.
I believe that this is an important message for the voters and the citizens of Europe.
The subject of own resources is covered in Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
I am rather surprised.
The Heads of Government of the European Union are all parliamentarians.
However, we must not allow democracy in Europe to be turned upside down.
The wish of the British Government in this case is for the 27 governments to control the Parliament, which is the opposite of parliamentary democracy.
Therefore, this decision could set a precedent.
It is the EU's money.
After this, the budget must be adopted by Parliament, because the European budget is not adopted by 27 national parliaments or by 27 national governments, but by a freely elected Parliament, in other words, this House.
Medium-term financial planning, the flexibility clause and the own resources are the three elements which we need to discuss with the Council, not the money.
We must make it clear to the Council that these three elements concern our rights and not additional spending.
Therefore, my group has unanimously decided that either we will agree on these demands, which are nothing more than an attempt to reinforce Parliament's rights, or there will be no budget.
They can either recognise the rights of Parliament and its projects or they can humiliate Parliament, in which case there will be no budget.
It acts on behalf of nations, whose governments are elected.
It may be that your interpretation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU is different from mine.
If there were no budget, then the funding could not be made available.
I think one thing we all learned is that we really need to see a seriously reformed budget for the future.
Well, that Prime Minister was Tony Blair, the man who made the last deal on the financial perspectives.
In fact, the Council has broken its word by refusing this now in this budget.
Finally, and this is the most important thing, we must agree on the future financing of the Union.
In short, you could say that own resources for Europe colleagues means more European democracy; it is the basis for a modern European democracy.
It is not just a budget.
What is more, there is something amiss in the idea of the European Union, and it is always apparent in public debates.
Because - and we are all saying it - you want the European Union to successfully resolve problems that you are no longer able to resolve at national level but, at the same time, you want to give the resources for the task not to the European Parliament, but to the European Union.
I therefore call on everyone to be responsible with regard to own resources, and Mr Verhofstadt has explained this.
Own resources represent an opportunity to reduce - I shall say it three times - to reduce - that time, it was for the benefit of all the conservatives - to reduce national contributions and, at the same time, to strengthen the European budget.
I repeat: we need to reduce national contributions and strengthen the European budget.
I therefore beg you: let us not cripple Europe, because the governments are already crippling their own economies at home.
We feel that it is a shame not to have a budget after all these arduous conciliation talks, because the 500 million taxpayers in Europe do not understand why these two distinguished arms of the budgetary authority cannot reach an agreement in the Lisbon Treaty's very first year of application.
I think the responsibility lies with both sides.
Therefore, it was a kind of dialogue between two sides which were not even stating their own proposals.
The Commission is preparing a new draft based on the 2.91% growth figure.
We can reach a compromise if we can agree to use flexibility - which is not a good use of terminology, by the way, because we should be using 'reserve' - as part of the interinstitutional agreement for the remaining three years to finance ITER and a few other key projects.
At the same time, Parliament could decide not to force any political declaration on the Council which is unacceptable to several key governments at this time.
I say that as an Irish mammy because I think you used that comment.
It is our duty not to compromise which it comes to the involvement of the European Parliament in the negotiations concerning the financial framework for the 2013 to 2020 budgets.
The European budget must be a concrete representation of the solidarity of the Member States.
This has deepened the social divide within the EU and within the Member States.
It is totally unacceptable for major projects such as ITER to be financed at the expense of projects which provide direct funding for students, the unemployed, rural areas and local communities.
However, I believe that this is about the relationship between the budget and the European Parliament and its rights.
Negotiations on next year's budget collapsed due to this Parliament's ambition to acquire more power over the financing of the European Union, even though those powers are not provided for in the Lisbon Treaty.
The auditors have refused to clear 92% of the European Union's expenditure for 2009, and they estimate that at least GBP 6 billion should not have been paid out - a similar amount to that of last year, which has not yet been recovered.
At the same time, it would also give the European bureaucracy a certain degree of credibility.
But this, I fear, will never happen. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three equal partners are sitting around the negotiating table for the 2011 budget: the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
The European Parliament has agreed to the budget increase of 2.9% proposed by the Council, but only in combination with a political package.
With regard to the extent of the increase, I think it is important to make it clear that we are still working with an EU budget volume which goes back to the time when there were 15 Member States and, therefore, it is geared to a Union of this size.
It is true that we were certainly all disappointed that this conciliation procedure was not a success.
It is therefore true that the Belgian Presidency, immediately after the failure - we must clearly regard it as such - of 15 November, sought to resume immediate contact and to press ahead in a bid to ensure that this first budgetary procedure based on the Treaty of Lisbon is a success rather than a failure.
However, I would remind you that every single one of us will always be able to find reasons not to succeed, and that is how the conciliation process broke down.
Parliament will always be able to find proposals that the Council has made that it does not agree with, and the Council will always be able to find certain proposals that Parliament has made that are unsatisfactory.
Firstly, there is the 2011 budget as such, with its figures, a budget on which - and I have heard it said by a number of group chairs here - an agreement could be reached with regard to the 2.91% increase in payment appropriations.
We could reach an agreement on the figures as such, on the 2011 budget, on what is, in fact, on the agenda today.
The second topic that almost all of you have mentioned is the multiannual financial framework for the financing of ITER, which relates to the issue of flexibility.
However, we can make progress.
If everyone makes the necessary efforts, I believe we can make progress on this flexibility idea, on this task, and on this objective of financing ITER in 2012-2013, alongside the issue of the 2011 budget in the strictest sense.
On this point, I must say that the Council cannot say any more than what was said on Monday in conciliation, although I know that Parliament was unable to agree with that at the time.
We shall have to hold these debates because Articles 311, 312 and 324 of the treaty mention a number of consultations that must take place between our various institutions, and we shall ensure that they do take place because they are provided for in the treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by fully exercising their right of initiative, the Members of the Commission have just decided in a meeting held here in Strasbourg that the Commission will be presenting a new draft budget in the next few days, on 1 December at the latest.
However, I am keen to underline the role of Commissioner Lewandowski, who has contributed all his energy and expertise, the role of many people in this House, but also the very constructive role of the Belgian Presidency, which I thank for having done and which is continuing to do everything possible to reach an agreement.
I believe that the draft that we are going to present deserves your support and that of the Council, and that it will enable us to come up with a budget before the end of this year, so that the Union may have a budget by 1 January 2011.
Furthermore, I believe that it would be very difficult to explain to Europe's citizens that in a crisis such as the one we are currently going through in Europe, we are unable to reach an agreement on the budget, which really is a symbol of Europe's ability to respond to challenges, challenges such as the one that Ireland or the European economy is having to face up to at the moment.
I am convinced that this proposal will enable us to strike a balance that can be supported.
We must show that all the parties involved clearly understand the implications of the treaty and that close cooperation between the institutions at the highest political level is a natural consequence of our mutual commitment to adopt the best financial framework for the future.
The Commission will take all the initiatives required for an ongoing and fruitful dialogue at all levels, including amongst the Presidents of the institutions, in order to draw up a common plan that will allow for the necessary decisions to be taken.
May I remind you of President Buzek's important speech to the European Council on 27 October, which served to underline the enhanced role of the European Parliament, including in budgetary matters, that is laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon, a role that I have also had the opportunity to draw attention to, by supporting your President's speech before the 27 Heads of State or Government.
I would like to be very clear on the Commission's position regarding a number of key points.
Secondly, we will argue the need to take full account of the changes envisaged by the Treaty of Lisbon when we present proposals, both for future budgets and for the multiannual financial framework as a whole.
I must also make it clear that, as the review of the budget has shown, the flexibility in our budgets means that the resources that we have are concentrated on the Union's political objectives.
If it helps to obtain this agreement, we are also prepared to reiterate them in the form of declarations to be annexed to an agreement between the Council and Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that many people, on all sides, have felt during this debate that the next multiannual financial framework will be a crucial test for Europe, and I share their point of view.
However, as the last few weeks have shown, it may be, above all, a test of our system of governance, of our ability not only to present sound arguments but also to recognise that the strength of our Union and of the Treaty of Lisbon lies in finding the best solutions to achieve our shared objectives.
The Commission will be open to any ideas on how to structure the debate around our proposals on the solid foundations of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I am convinced that all the parties will be determined to reach an agreement.
The European budget is different from national budgets.
I would emphasise this point because people are sometimes very quick to make comparisons.
Europe needs the European Union to have a budget.
If provisional twelfths alone were applied, our citizens would not understand how issues, even very important ones, could hinder a budget that has a direct impact on the livelihoods and prospects of citizens throughout the Union.
This is why I am confident that, with an additional commitment - and I appeal to the European spirit, especially of those who failed to show it last time - it will be possible to have a 2011 budget and to lay the foundations for a truly serious discussion on the prospects for financing the European Union in the future. (DE) Mr President, the Conference of Presidents is meeting at 17:00 at your invitation.
I would like to thank you, Mr Barroso.
Your remarks have shown that the two community institutions, Parliament and the Commission, are working along exactly the same lines.
This is a very important discussion. (ES) Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Mr Barroso, Commissioner Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, my political group wants a normal budget for 2011.
Blocking, reducing or watering down the European budget is paradoxically contrary to the interests of the 27 Member States and 500 million Europeans.
Without a political agreement between Parliament and the Council on own resources or cooperation on the next multiannual financial framework, there will be no political or financial stability.
Posturing, whether in this House or in the Justus Lipsius building, where it also happens, is of no practical use whatsoever. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the European Parliament is being called upon to confirm its approach, an approach of responsibility, vision and unity.
Instead, it is the fault of some selfish, falsely moralistic national governments, as quick to jump on their soapboxes as they are unwilling, as in the case of Great Britain, to relinquish their claim to nearly 30 years of unfair privileges.
If three governments are selfish and bad, the other 24 cannot be subject to their will but must react, Mr President, Mr Wathelet.
We accepted the 2.91% increase in payment appropriations.
It is also important for there to be constructive dialogue between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, including with the national parliaments, concerning the EU's budget after 2013.
The European Parliament must not be placed in a situation where we can only say 'yes' or 'no' to the medium-term financial perspectives.
This was laid down in 2006 in the interinstitutional agreement.
Thank you very much, Mr Barroso, you have rightly highlighted this issue once more.
If we want the European Union and its citizens to have a powerful future, including at a global level, Parliament and the Council must reach a pro-European consensus.
Therefore, we must not give in at too early a stage.
Instead, we must fight for European added value, because this is in the interests of both the national governments and our citizens. (CS) Mr President, as Mr Schulz said, this is not just a debate about the budget, but it is also a debate about the future form of the European Union, and that is a fact.
If the European Parliament takes this path, and if the confrontational tone we have heard from a number of Members continues, only one thing will happen: the European Parliament will be the loser, both with the media and with the public. (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, millions of Portuguese workers are going to go on strike.
In this context, we must be very clear about this debate on the budget.
We do not believe that there can be a currency without a substantial budget behind it and - let us be realistic - the 2011 budget under discussion is not just modest: it is a mediocre budget; it is a budget that does not respond to the crisis but is part of the crisis.
This is the issue that we are discussing; the issue of the future: do we want a Europe controlled by governments or a Europe that continues to be a Trojan horse for the interests of the financial system?
We do not want new taxes on the European public, but we definitely do want to discuss how to make financial capital pay what it has not been paying: pay what it owes.
That is the message that the public - the workers and the unemployed - are demanding from this House and from the European Union.
Either we want a European project that has so little ambition to fly that it barely makes it off the ground, or we make it clear that we will not be content with the scenario being put to us by the United Kingdom and a group of governments, which is 'do more with less money, because that is the Europe that we are offering you'. (FI) Mr President, we really have an excellent situation now.
There is no single currency; there is only taxpayers' money in different parts of Europe.
While national budgets are being cut at the same time - in Finland they could not even find EUR 1 million for a hospital for rheumatic diseases - my voters at least - and there were 130 000 of them - do not want me to be the EU's representative in Finland, but the Finnish taxpayer's representative in the EU, and that is what I intend to be.
Using excellent arguments, they have managed to prevent the increase in the EU budget for 2011 and have refused to agree to the introduction of own resources, for which, read European taxes.
At the same time, I do have to say that I regret that the European Parliament is not willing to learn anything from the lesson that Member States are teaching it.
The Netherlands and the other Member States have extremely good reasons for rejecting the increase in the EU budget and the introduction of European taxes.
If populism means that we are listening closely to what people are saying, that we are representing them and offering really watertight arguments about extracting ourselves from the economic crisis, which the EU has also forced upon us, then I shall be happy to wear that title with pride.
It is unacceptable that there are states which are not even willing to engage in a debate.
This means the end of the European spirit.
It is not the Council arguing with Parliament.
The European Parliament has shown a lot of goodwill in accepting the figures for 2011 because we understand the economic situation in the Member States.
But we do not accept that the economic crisis will be here for ever and that the crisis should set the limits for the future of Europe.
Without reasonable flexibility, we risk building up a mountain of problems for 2012 and 2013.
Let us try again to find an agreement, but we must find a solution to flexibility that is not less ambitious than what we already have in the interinstitutional agreement.
It is important to remember that we have jointly succeeded in agreeing on a quite - or rather very - ambitious 2020 strategy for Europe - a strategy that is to take Europe forwards.
However, it is naive to believe that such a strategy will finance itself or implement itself.
It is surely also a given that this strategy and its successes will not merely be a question of money.
These are problems that are now reflected in the fact that we suddenly have a budgetary crisis, and these are problems that the Council, as pointed out here, ought to attend to and find solutions for, because the fact is that this is not just about next year's budget; it is about the future.
For many months, my group has warned that with Member States facing such budget pressures at home, it is vital that the EU show restraint in its own spending, ensuring that every penny of taxpayers' money is well spent.
The last vote in the European Parliament did not show such restraint, and it is, of course, a good sign that there is now agreement on the numbers between Parliament and the Council, though I think we could have gone even lower.
In so doing, the European Parliament is leaving itself open to the suspicion that it does not want to play a constructive role in the annual budgetary procedure, in accordance with Article 234 of the treaty.
That could put an end to these budget constraints which could still prove to be instructive. (NL) Mr President, it would not hurt if the European Parliament set a good example, for once, and defended the principle that the European Union should cut its coat according to its cloth.
At a time when everyone is having to save and when our citizens are having to tighten their belts, arguing for a substantial increase in the EU budget is sending out totally the wrong message.
The financial margin of error for regional funds is more than 5%, which therefore exceeds the two most important expenditure items in the budget.
Last year, the virtue contest between governments was about who could spend the most.
Parliament accepts the figure imposed on the Council by the most thrifty or miserly Member State, but on condition that we agree on protecting the future.
The Treaty of Lisbon has been in force for one year now.
I think the lowest point in our reconciliation was when the Council refused to start discussions, and the second lowest was when it refused to start discussions on the basis of documents proposed by the Commission regarding the political part of our discussions.
But discussions are in the treaty, and they are in at least two parts.
First: regarding the multiannual financial framework, in Article 312, it is quite clear that if we do not have discussions before we agree on the new MFF, it will not be successful.
But if we really want one thing - to work together and to start discussions (we do not know what the outcome of discussions will be) - we ask the Council to take part in this joint task.
You can do it, but I believe that a joint task will be much better than a separate one. (CS) Mr President, I would like to say that I am disappointed over the negotiations between the Council, the Commission and Parliament concerning the EU budget for 2011.
The European Parliament cannot pretend to be immune from this.
It is not right in such a difficult situation for Parliament to demand a 6% increase in the budget.
In my opinion, the European Parliament's negotiators should not exacerbate the situation in the talks, but, on the contrary, should aim to reach an agreement.
However, our efforts are not over.
Personally, I think the fiasco of the 2011 budget negotiations is a defeat for all of us.
However, I would like to share with you my interpretation as to why Monday's fiasco happened.
My next point is that the tension concerning discussion of the 2011 budget began because the European Parliament wants to draw the attention of Member States to a problem which we see in the future and which we can already see today: that the European Union continues to take on new roles and start new areas of activity and that it has growing ambitions, but that at the same time, the Member States, which support those ambitions, also do not want to finance those ambitions, those plans, those actions and those new areas.
At a time of crisis, it is all the more important to talk about finance and to talk about how the European Union is to be financed.
I would like more euro-enthusiasm over the budget. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned, but not about the budget, the interinstitutional agreement or a possible twelve-part budget.
I have a general concern about the political situation facing the European Union, which has come to light today in the context of the budget.
I am concerned that the Treaty of Lisbon is not being put into effect. (Applause) Mr Barroso, I welcome your statements.
However, perhaps it would have been more helpful if you had come 10 days earlier, to make it clearer that the Commission is on Parliament's side.
The treaty states that this debate must take place.
Lastly, Mr President, is it too much to ask for us to enter into binding political agreements on all the issues relating to assent procedures so that we can prevent crises from occurring and so that we do not find ourselves in the same position on other questions, including external trade agreements and the next multiannual financial framework?
If you present these things in the form that you have today, the answer from this House will be a definite 'no'. (RO) Mr President, Member States are clearly going through a difficult time from a budgetary perspective.
This task was performed in 2006 and I do not believe that the 2007-2013 budget was bad for the Union.
The new responsibilities under the treaty and the 2020 strategy require funding.
It is not acceptable for the same institution, the Council, to set targets for 2020 and, at the same time, not approve the financial resources required to meet these demands.
I believe that we have a duty to reach an agreement.
We have a responsibility to our citizens.
It is common knowledge that Parliament, the Commission and most Member States were ready to reach an agreement, which was blocked by a minority of countries that refused to open a constructive debate with Parliament on the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I believe that Parliament's position during the negotiations was responsible and moderate.
We all agree, however, as the Commission also affirmed today, that we should ask for greater flexibility to meet the needs of Europe.
The only demand is to fulfil the Council's undertakings, for example, the Europe 2020 strategy and the need to finance it, and to comply with the Treaty of Lisbon.
In truth, under the treaty, the European Parliament has to be involved - by voting, giving opinions, or being consulted - in the new interinstitutional agreement, in the next multiannual financial framework and in establishing new own resources.
As regards the interinstitutional agreement, it is obvious that respect for the commitments made by European institutions, specifically the Council, is conditional on the existence of flexibility regarding the current multiannual financial framework.
The Europe 2020 strategy, the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor programme, the European External Action Service and the financial supervision entities are some examples of things that need financing.
The Council needs to take the Treaty of Lisbon on board, both from the point of view of the areas newly under the jurisdiction of the European Union, which are reflected in the budget, and from the point of view of the European Parliament's strengthened powers, not least regarding the budget.
The two are very much linked and I think we need to be aware of that. (HU) Mr President, for the past ten years, we have been telling European citizens that a Treaty on European Union was necessary, and the countries have indeed ratified it.
We have been telling them that European space policy can be better accomplished at EU level, and we have been telling them that energy research and the fight against climate change can be better accomplished in the European Union than it could be at Member State level.
This is what I wanted to say, and keep up the good work. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the trialogue represents a major political opportunity to reflect on Europe's recent history.
The problem is not merely political but also cultural and involves many Member States.
Nowadays, Parliament counts more due to the Treaty of Lisbon and the Council can no longer take a dominant role against the popular sovereignty represented by Parliament ... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the traditional representatives of the European Parliament are calling for extensive flexibility in the budget, but I have noticed that no one has mentioned the interests of the net contributors or the interests of the citizens.
For this reason, it is clear that we must retain the ratification by the national parliaments for the sake of subsidiarity. (DE) Mr President, firstly, I would like to make it clear, following repeated claims in this House, that during the budget negotiations, we have not requested a single cent more than the Council had offered us.
This means that we were completely in line with the Council's wishes.
We then have to attempt, together with the Member States, to find a solution for these projects, in order to be able to support them financially and to make sensible plans.
The strategy of the Commission in these specific circumstances is very simple and is based on the simple assumption that unity, not divisions, is what Europe needs to face other challenges.
I think that the Belgian Presidency is acting on the same assumption.
Our role is clearly defined in the treaties in the event of agreement - and in the event of disagreement, which was not very likely, but it has happened for the first time in 26 years.
We understand that we should move quickly and we have taken the first step today to agree on the guidelines, then, possibly on 1 December, to submit the figures, which are no longer controversial, to defend flexibility, which we need, to come up with a proposal on the arrangements for cooperation built on the Lisbon Treaty, and to defend - which is also important - the Commission's right of initiative to present the vision of the future next year.
It is our common responsibility to deliver what was promised, what is expected by the beneficiaries, what has been built up, as a budget, on the revenue side, while fully respecting the fiscal sovereignty of Member States.
This is about a modest budget that was rising at half the rate of a national budget, despite the enlargement accommodating over 12 new states.
Yes, there will be progress and we will have to try and find an agreement on flexibility and on financing ITER.
Secondly, yes, we will have debates within the context of Articles 312 and 324 in order to see how, in practice, we can implement and carry this out, and ensure that these articles and these new procedures become a reality.
Today, I heard that the Commission was going to use its power to initiate legislation, whether on the issue of own resources, or for the multiannual framework.
On the basis of these elements, we will have to get together, we will have to discuss, we will have to make sure that we abide by Articles 312 and 324 of the treaty, which include provisions to the effect that all elements need to be implemented in order to reach an agreement, to have these meetings and to carry out this coordination which would enable these new procedures laid down by the treaty to become a reality.
Regarding the flexible part for 2012-2013, we will have to implement these Articles 312 and 324 of the treaty, even if, once again - I must emphasise this point - we must ensure that the 2011 budget is passed.
We need to see progress on the part of the Council.
We could also remain in the state of mind that unfortunately led to a disagreement on 15 November.
I could have told you that from the outset, Parliament was certainly going to say that the Council was to blame and the Council was certainly going to say that Parliament was to blame, while both would thank the Commission for having made efforts at conciliation.
It is important because in my view, it addresses one of Parliament's major concerns which is to have a number of prospects, at least for 2012-2013, which is when the current multiannual framework ends.
This is the reason why, on this matter, the Belgian Presidency, following on from 15 November, immediately resumed contacts to try and make progress on these other points too.
Thanks also to Commission President Barroso and Commissioner Lewandowski for your contribution to our discussion.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 25 November 2010.
Not since 1988 has Europe seen such fundamental disagreement between Parliament and its institutional partners with regard to the European budget.
We must not forget that, over and above the EU's new responsibilities post-Lisbon, the Member States are constantly proposing and adopting new policies and strategies, such as the EU 2020 strategy, which the EU is being called upon to implement; on the other hand, they say that they are unwilling to provide the money to implement them, thereby condemning them to failure before they even start.
I, too, would stress that the European Parliament is not asking for an increase in expenditure or for more powers than those provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon.
We must ask ourselves what is more important: an easy short-term solution, which means giving in to a number of countries and the Presidency, or a more ambitious plan, which may be more difficult but which, in the long term, will make the EU stronger and from which we really will all gain?
A European Union of this kind needs its own resources and a strong budget based on the principle of solidarity in order to fund what is needed.
