Disruption of air traffic in Europe (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on disruption of air traffic in Europe.
In this air traffic crisis in Europe, two circumstances have arisen at the same time: the maximum level of seriousness - the crisis has been very serious - but also a low level of immediate legal capacity on the part of the European Union to act in this area.
That is what was done first, and it was done with the utmost caution and safety and the minimum risk, on the basis of that first contribution from Eurocontrol, which, in turn, was based on what was said by the Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre in London, which was established years ago.
Throughout the weekend, the Council, the Spanish Presidency, the Commission - most particularly Commissioner Kallas, whom I thank for his willingness and hard work throughout this period - and Eurocontrol have been working to prepare a much more precise, much more appropriate reaction to what was already becoming a more lasting crisis, which was beginning to have very serious effects on the whole of the European Union and beyond.
This technical recommendation, which came from and was proposed by Eurocontrol, was unanimously adopted yesterday by the 27 governments of the European Union, therefore giving it a European focus and a European approach to what is needed at the moment.
In other words, the European Union makes a decision and therefore proposes that the Member States act in that way.
We will gain a much more precise idea of the real risk from all of the data that is going to be used by Eurocontrol, not only from London, but from the tests that are being carried out with test aircraft without passengers, as well as data from the national authorities, from the manufacturers of aeroplane engine parts and from the European Aviation Safety Agency in Cologne.
They have also tackled the extremely significant economic consequences of this situation - as Commissioner Kallas will explain - in a taskforce, a group led by the Vice-President of the Commission, Commissioner Kallas, Commissioner Almunia and Commissioner Rehn, which is going to submit a report next week on all the economic aspects.
Finally, there will be another Transport Ministers' Council as soon as possible to discuss all of these issues.
I am very pleased, Mr President, Mr Buzek, that the European Parliament has proposed a detailed debate on this issue.
In fact, this debate means that you clearly have the reflexes to act immediately, as is fitting for the House that represents the peoples of Europe, and that you can consider on a longer-term basis what action needs to be taken in response to this entirely unforeseen, completely new crisis, which has had extraordinary and extremely serious effects on the lives of European citizens.
We cannot make executive decisions, but we want to help both the Commission and the Council.
We are open to this.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very happy to present to Parliament the report on the action taken by the Commission regarding the effects of the European airspace crisis as a result of the volcanic eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.
All the Transport Ministers are in favour of a coordinated European response to the crisis.
The second important point is that safety comes first.
The second of the zones is one which will not, in principle, impede air traffic cooperation being carried out, even though ash is still present.
That zone will need to be confirmed, and the decisions on operations will be taken in a coordinated manner by the authorities in the Member States.
Eurocontrol is providing maps every six hours with the relevant information for the national authorities.
The model for resuming flights is the most important thing.
The question is enforcement, which again is in the hands of the Member States.
I would now like to comment on what are, in my view, deliberate attempts to confuse things - who should do what, who has done what and what the models are.
It is clear that in some countries, elections are coming up, and so on, but after the volcanic eruption, all the decisions made were based on existing and agreed models on how to handle these kinds of situation.
To say that the European model completely failed is totally wrong.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (NL) Mr President, thank you to the Commission and the Council for the information you have given us about the crisis in European aviation.
That is why it is important that we are having this emergency debate in Parliament today.
Passengers have been stranded, airlines, the travel industry and companies which depend on air travel have all been hit hard, and all this comes on top of the economic crisis.
Let me reiterate that, while safety must, of course, come first, it is important that we reopen European airspace on the basis of facts and correct assumptions.
A lot of people, tens of thousands of them, are stranded all over the world and waiting to come home.
Finally, we need to be aware that air travel is one part of the very vulnerable infrastructure which we have in Europe.
This is why I believe that the project which we started 20 years ago, the expansion of the trans-European networks and, in particular, the expansion of rail transport, is a credible and significant alternative and, as we are now seeing, an alternative which is vital to our economic survival.
Instead, we must adopt a sustained, ongoing approach to putting these new concepts into effect.
However, at the same time, it is important to note that this situation has shown us that we have not made as much progress in Europe as we should have done.
For 20 years, we have been talking about an internal market for transport and a single European sky.
At the same time, it was unsatisfactory that no actual measurements were taken using balloons, for example, but that everyone was working with statistical extrapolations.
We must protect their rights.
This means that it is essential for us to consider in more detail how we should deal with this situation, how we can provide support for the airlines during the crisis that the transport sector is already undergoing and how we can maintain and guarantee the mobility of the citizens of Europe, which is a major achievement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a fundamental change in mobility in Europe over the last six days.
On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to Eurocontrol, to the Transport Ministers who supported Eurocontrol and, in particular, to the German Transport Minister, Peter Ramsauer.
These policies have focused entirely on air transport.
Therefore, I would like to thank all the rail companies in Europe which have helped to get passengers to their destinations.
For this reason, we are calling on all the Member States of the European Union to change the priorities of national and international transport policy.
A not particularly large volcano erupts in Iceland and air traffic in many parts of Europe grinds to a halt for several days.
We have been too rash in making comparisons with the KLM flight that was engulfed in the volcanic dust of Mount Redoubt over Alaska in 1989 and too rash in making references to the British Airways flight which found itself in a cloud of volcanic dust over Indonesia in 1982.
Mr President, the decision made by the aviation safety authorities not to put passenger safety at risk was absolutely right, even if this meant closing European airspace for several days and involved financial losses for the airlines.
I welcome the fact that the Commission is considering authorising special State aid for the airlines, which would otherwise be in serious financial difficulties as a result of the current situation.
If the EU and the Member States can at least help to prevent things from getting even worse, this is the right thing to do.
It is high time that the Commission put in place a permanent common European monitoring system for aviation safety.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, the situation caused by the volcano has been managed in a tardy, inefficient way.
Why ban single-engine piston aircraft from flying at an altitude of 500 metres when the ash was above 8 000 metres?
However, that is not the way to tackle emergencies, and so I believe that, in view of the obligation to guarantee the safety of passengers and crew, it was a good idea to adopt these measures, but they were just adopted too long after the situation had occurred.
I therefore call for swift action, serious action, and action in full knowledge of the facts. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, safety has priority over all other considerations.
I would like to remind everyone of the British Airways plane which flew through an ash cloud on its way to New Zealand in 1982 and, in particular, of the serious incident involving a KLM Boeing 747 in 1989 which flew through a thick cloud of volcanic ash.
Test and measurement flights have taken place, but only up to a certain height and under visual flight rules.
Therefore, taking into account the cases I have mentioned, I would like to call for the greatest possible responsibility and caution, including with regard to the division of the airspace into three zones. (DE) Mr President, Mr López Garrido, Mr Kallas, this flight ban brings us back to the wide-ranging debate on safety which has often taken place in Parliament and in which we have said that we, by which I mean Parliament, and also, I believe, the Commission, could and should introduce regulations in this area on a European level, if the Member States wanted this to happen.
Therefore, we should today be asking this question of those bodies that are able to answer it: firstly, the aviation authorities in the relevant countries and, of course, the organisation responsible for coordination at a European level.
In my opinion, the top priority is the safety of passengers.
I hope that in future, Eurocontrol and the national aviation safety authorities will make the decision and not the individual airlines, because we are once again faced with experts who have differing opinions.
From an economic perspective, it is, of course, a disaster for an industry which is now suffering its third crisis, following 11 September and the economic crisis.
Therefore, we should take measures at a European and not a national level and provide aid packages which are compatible throughout Europe and do not distort the market, as has happened frequently in the past.
Aid is needed, but not only at a national level.
The passengers are now in a situation in which the law as it stands does not provide them with all the help that they might expect.
For me, the future lies in the single European sky.
I would like to point out that we will be discussing this subject frequently in the European Parliament over the next two years. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I think there are three important elements to this debate.
However, in practice - as you are well aware - we have, of course, experienced quite a few problems: chaos in the airports, a lack of information, etc.
I know that this is a job for the airlines, but there are certainly people stranded out there in distant locations who will have to wait quite some time for repatriation, even if airspace is reopened.
It is true that the European Union currently has no decision-making powers either over the airspace of the Member States or over Eurocontrol, which makes it very difficult to take effective and coordinated decisions.
It is a good idea to list the various possibilities, but we need a European approach.
That is the main priority and, as my colleague said, it is clear that here, we have a vision of what our transport system should be; in other words, rail must recapture the market for small and medium distances.
In the short term, I consider that the priority is surely to bring people back home, to compensate passengers and, perhaps, to see what needs to be done for the airlines, but in a very targeted way.
Videoconferencing as a medium remains extremely incidental and of little relevance to anyone; this applies not only in the case of Parliament, of course, but also more generally.
Finally, I believe, because the President asked us, that the European Parliament could, perhaps, for its part, review its way of working, by considering, for example, working five days a week for two weeks, rather than three days or three-and-a-half days per week.
It is truly a question of reviewing the system as a whole, and there will be an opportunity, within the framework of the White Paper, but also within the European Parliament, to review our own method of supporting other means of transport, including in terms of the way we work. (PL) Mr President, I greatly regret the fact that it seems many fellow Members, before making their speeches, did not seek the advice of professionals - people who have spent several thousand hours at the controls of an aircraft.
We are responsible for the system of permanent air traffic management, and I think there is a lesson here which we can learn from these events.
We do not wish to add our voice to those who criticise a great deal but offer few suggestions and still claim to be in possession of the truth once the storm has passed.
We should like to say here that the principle of passenger safety must be reaffirmed as the priority principle.
Finally, Mr President, if you will allow me, in order to dispel any suspicion that may exist, I should like to propose that a European Parliament committee of inquiry be set up on this matter. (DA) Mr President, I have two important points to make.
It will not be possible to develop solar-powered or electric versions of cargo or passenger aircraft, but what we can do is finally get started on high-speed trains and on establishing direct high-speed rail links between all the major cities of Europe.
Offering airlines State aid in compensation for the losses has a precedent in the bail out offered to American Airlines after 9/11.
The second issue is related to the European Union's capacity to manage crises.
We hear that during the first few days, there was no consultation or coordination amongst relevant national authorities in a situation covering 80% of European air space.
I can assure you that we in the European Parliament will support all your efforts to make us more effective and more efficient in crisis management. (DE) Mr President, in the last few days, I have seen and experienced the alternatives to air travel in Europe, on the one hand, during a car journey from Belgrade to Vienna and then on a train journey from Vienna to Strasbourg.
Although there are problems on the roads, the road infrastructure is relatively well developed, even in Europe's neighbouring regions.
However, the situation on the railways remains appalling.
We must also put more emphasis on accommodation. (ES) Mr President, Mr López Garrido, Mr Kallas, thank you very much for your explanations and for the work that you have done.
The airline industry is having to cope with very unpredictable circumstances, both in terms of the volcanic eruption and, of course, the general economic background.
The safety of our fellow citizens must surpass every other consideration and, in these circumstances, the attitude of certain airlines in demanding the complete and immediate opening of the airspace on the strength of one or two test flights seems obscene, to say the least.
Moreover, travel agencies are exempt from the obligation to compensate travellers for unused flights.
During the last six days, more than 17 000 flights have been cancelled and millions of passengers have remained stuck in various locations, both inside and outside the EU.
Passenger safety must be our overriding concern.
This is why, particularly within the European Union, there should be an efficient system for redirecting passengers to other forms of transport: rail, waterways or roads.
If such a system had been in operation, 66% of passengers who were grounded during this period and those travelling within a Member State or the EU itself would have reached their destination using other means of transport.
However, overnight it has changed again, and the restrictions in our airspace have been extended until 13.00 today.
Many passengers are stranded in various parts - not just of Europe, but many parts of the world - and our priority must be to try and help those people, to help the many people who have deaths in their families and who cannot get home.
Of course, it is essential - and I think this is the real point - that the role of Eurocontrol is strengthened as a result of the crisis, because volcanoes do not respect economic, geographic or political boundaries.
I agree that dealing with it from 27 perspectives, or countries, is not successful.
Indeed, many of our own colleagues from far-flung corners of Europe have been left stranded this week.
It is clear that we need a much better understanding both of volcanic ash and of volcanic gases, and research in this area should be encouraged.
The companies' response was late and disjointed, which created major problems for passengers.
The only logical response to this shortcoming is to create the single European sky and establish a centralised traffic control system under the responsibility of a single body.
I hope that Member States have understood one extremely important message: it is not enough to be prepared in your own backyard; the same conditions must be in place across the whole European Union.
I believe that the European Parliament should investigate how the companies reacted, compared with the regulation, and if passengers' rights were respected. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, good morning.
Despite all the efforts made by the tour operators and airline staff, many passengers have simply been abandoned to their fate and have had to cobble together a solution on their own.
We will be voting on this report in the next session and we will discuss our experience of the volcanic ash cloud then.
In my opinion, it all took too long.
Five days before a test flight took place and real data was collected is simply too long.
Mr Kallas, you have said that the national authorities have responsibilities.
We need more Europe in civil protection and in a common transport policy.
While I welcome the possibility of exceptional public aid being granted to the airline sector, which has already suffered a great deal since 11 September 2001, I am still perplexed about Europe's management of these events.
Firstly, knowing that 750 000 European passengers have been affected, a good number of whom are still stuck in the four corners of the world, knowing that the economic losses are growing exponentially over time, how can we explain that it has taken not one, not two, three or four, but five days for the European transport ministers to hold a meeting, by teleconferencing, to coordinate their actions and to decide to create traffic-differentiated zones?
So far, however, only isolated and national initiatives have been taken. (ES) Mr President, I welcome the opportunity that this debate gives us to face up to our responsibilities.
The air traffic sector, travel agents, the tourism industry, logistics, etc., which were only just glimpsing an end to the crisis, have taken a real battering, and I welcome the presence of Commissioner Almunia, who will be responsible for managing the solution required for the sector.
The railways, the roads and the maritime sector put together have not managed to replace it. (PL) Mr President, Mr Kallas, we are certainly dealing with a crisis situation.
In Europe, air traffic has been reduced by 70%, and 80% of airports have been closed.
Firstly, the Commission should do everything to ensure that the eruption of the volcano does not lead to the bankruptcy of European air carriers, which are in a catastrophic financial situation as it is.
I think the decision to halt flights out of concern for passenger safety was a wise one.
These matters have already been discussed more than once at sittings of the European Parliament and, in particular, the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Paradoxically, however, only the eruption of the volcano in Iceland has made us all aware how essential the aviation industry is to the proper functioning of the European Union economy, and this is true in particular of those representatives of the EU institutions who, for this reason, were not able to attend the funeral in Krakow on Sunday. (DE) Mr President, Mr Kallas, Mr López Garrido, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the response of the European Union and the Member States to this crisis has been entirely satisfactory and that everything possible has been done.
One case concerns members of a family who are waiting in an airport in Thailand and have been told that they will probably be able to fly out on 29 April.
The second case involves young people in New York who have been told not to leave their hotel for at least a week, because they could be picked up at any moment.
The third case is a family of pensioners on an island in the Norwegian Sea, who can no longer afford to pay for their accommodation, but are unable to leave.
These are issues which we in the European Parliament need to think about and discuss.
I do not think there is any question that the priority in this emergency is to guarantee safety, and safety has been guaranteed, because the outcome of this disaster, of this unexpected, natural event, is that no aircraft have been involved in an accident caused by the cloud.
It is true that we have focused strongly on the economic problems that this exceptional and unforeseeable situation has caused.
I am thinking more of them, and especially of those who can no longer afford to stay where they are, who are stranded and have no other solution.
However, as a serious organisation, the European Union should be better prepared for such situations, and should, in particular, be ready to react efficiently in urgent cases.
It is difficult, of course, to prepare for something which may or may not happen once every 150 years, but we can see at the moment that the European railway infrastructure and network of connections is completely insufficient.
Another question is how we should develop a strategy which will prepare us in the long term to react and make better improvements ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) Mr President, the Commissioner talked about the procedures being absurd and obsolete.
There should be no minimum services; there should be maximum services for all. (PL) Mr President, I hope the current difficult situation in European transport will not last for too long and will not turn into a real transport crisis.
Firstly, the European Union should coordinate matters relating to safety and decide whether or not aeroplanes can fly.
Secondly, we need to think about the question of economic responsibility.
I think a European system of insurance against this type of situation, or perhaps national insurance schemes, should be the solution.
I hope those rapid procedures will be introduced. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few days, we have experienced an unprecedented upheaval in our lives.
The impact of air travel on the climate in the European Union is huge.
In transport, there are no short cuts, there are no short-term solutions, and this should be an opportunity - even more so now that the White Paper is being drawn up - to include, introduce and establish the necessary measures to reduce our excessive dependence on our air transport connections.
That is why we need to look slightly further ahead and work out how to handle such a situation when it occurs again in the future.
As part of this, I believe that we need to start focusing on getting high-speed rail links between the European capitals and how we bring about the interoperability that is needed. (SL) Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, clear to us all that passenger safety must be our top priority and that we are having this discussion today primarily because nature has reminded us of this.
If one thing is clear, it is that our society is extremely vulnerable to crises of this kind.
That would be good for the economy, good for the climate and also good for the stability of this society, because that is what it desperately needs. (DE) Mr President, it has become clear that the focus of this whole issue is on the passengers.
We want safety, but we also want transport options.
For this reason, I think we should take one step at a time.
However, I believe that passenger safety and consumer protection must come above everything else.
This morning, at 08.00, Eurocontrol defined four zones with an extended safety perimeter in which there can be no flights, and other areas in which there can be flights, provided that there are agreements and coordination among the Member States.
I believe that what was immediately seen is that in this case, the European approach meant that a much more balanced decision could be adopted.
Mr Sterckx, in response to what you said about this, I want to say that Eurocontrol is taking into account the decisions made by the Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre in London, but it is also going to take into account the test flights, the information from the national authorities, the information from the aeroplane manufacturers, and the information from the European Aviation Safety Agency in Cologne, which I agree needs to be strengthened.
We are being far too polite.
This debate should be far longer, and more Members should be allowed to participate in it.
We have a clear plan on how to proceed with the enforcement of these rules and on how to influence the Member States.
In this Chamber today, you have the same dilemma as faced by all those experts and decision makers, but this is a matter which is in the hands of experts and the safety authorities, not in the hands of politicians.
One British Airways flight and one KLM flight were affected by the volcanic eruption, so rules were established on the basis of there being a serious risk.
The authorities acted in accordance with the assumption that there was a serious risk and that flights should be cancelled.
On Sunday, the majority of the test flights were made and information came through to Eurocontrol, where we discussed these issues - the test flights and the definitive results for those flights.
The solution for the economy and for passengers is a resumption of flights, with airlines bringing passengers home or taking them to their final destination.
It is still a difficult situation and we must deal with the consequences.
I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that 14 Commissioners from the European Commission have taken part in our final debate.
It is very important that they have listened to your remarks.
The working group created to this end ought to reinforce coordination between aviation and air traffic control authorities, and it would be worth examining the continued validity of safety measures introduced in the 1980s as well.
Mr President, our debate on the situation of European aviation must not be restricted to the trivial matter of how to get to the part-session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg.
In Poland, some politicians and journalists are asking, for example, why some people could not get to Krakow on Sunday, while others did get there.
They are also asking why it was not possible to get to Krakow by road or rail on Sunday, but it was possible to get to Strasbourg by these means on Monday.
Ethiopia's losses alone, which result from the fact that it is not possible to export flowers to Europe, amount to EUR 3 million a day.
As a result of the limitations and cancellations of flights for several days on account of the eruption of the volcano in Iceland, thousands of people are stuck at airports under difficult conditions.
For the whole of Europe, and for national and EU authorities, this is a lesson from which we must draw conclusions for the future, including so that similar events in the future do not paralyse the work of the European Council or of our assembly.
Funds made available from the European budget and coordination among various civil protection bodies are already in operation, thanks to the experience acquired.
The airlines have suffered the greatest financial losses.
This possibility must be avoided.
Just as it does for natural disasters, the European Union will have to respond by compensating citizens who have incurred unforeseen costs in an effort to minimise their discomfort, along with the airlines, but in so doing, it must avoid the risk of describing such compensation as State aid, and hence unlawful aid.
The situation is unusual, because it is not the result of strikes, but of a natural disaster caused by the eruption of a volcano in Iceland.
Since the volcanic eruption in Iceland, travelling by air not only appears not to be a viable option, but almost an impossibility as well.
I hope that the single European sky will become a reality one day.
In my view, the session must be held as normal.
