The difference in salaries also has an equal impact in Europe, and lack of security is also affecting jobs done by women who have higher-level training.
In my opinion, Member States should prevent ordinary jobs becoming insecure by introducing strict employment regulations. (IT) Madam President, the current economic and financial crisis has aggravated the problem of precarious women workers.
Since they often have to balance work and family commitments, they find themselves in a weaker bargaining position, which often leads to their having worse working conditions.
This report also urges the Commission to submit a proposal relating to the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women.
We therefore call on the Member States to facilitate the development of childcare and care networks and to implement all the measures designed to allow women who so choose to work full time, thus improving their labour market participation and economic independence. (CS) I voted against the adoption of this report on women employed under precarious working conditions because I think that part-time work, temporary work and other similar forms of contract are a benefit to women in the labour market, especially for women who are caring for children and who want to work as well.
The uncertainty on the labour market affects women in general.
So-called non-standard jobs, whether in the services sector or in agriculture, are the first to be hit, particularly in a time of global crisis.
This own-initiative report sends out a clear signal to the Commission and the Member States that they should abolish precarious work and increase social protection for precarious women workers.
I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Thomsen. (SK) I supported the report, although with certain reservations.
Written explanations of vote I welcome this proposal, since its aim is to make the collection of data by type of goods obligatory for maritime transport statistics, which allows a useful general framework for supporting and monitoring the policy of promoting co-modality.
In the case of islands, this should mean more support for a combination of maritime and air transport, since these are the only means of transport available.
In fact, the collection of data by type of goods is already mandatory for European statistics on road, rail and inland waterway transport.
This data is currently collected on a voluntary basis by 18 Member States.
Furthermore, the collection of data by type of goods is already mandatory for road, rail and inland waterways transport statistics.
The collection of data will provide the opportunity to compare carriage by transport mode and will create the possibility to combine various modes of transport within the same transport chain and to modernise freight transport logistics.
Directive 2009/42/EC, which is currently in force, makes provision for data capture for statistics on maritime transport on a voluntary basis.
It makes sense for these rules to be mandatory for maritime transport, as they are already mandatory for road transport, rail transport and inland waterway transport.
I would like to call for all European statistics on all modes of transport to be collected in line with common concepts and standards in order to achieve the greatest possible comparability between modes of transport.
in writing. - This concerns the collection and registration of data when it comes to shipping applicable in the Member States that have a coast.
European Union Member States must help set up a European database for data on the monthly carriage of goods and passengers by sea and for the ships which carry them.
Using this data will then help establish an integrated European system containing statistics on this area, with a view to achieving the maximum degree of comparability between the modes of transport deployed in European countries.
This proposal aims to make the collection of data by type of goods obligatory for maritime transport statistics and to standardise the type of information collated and processed in the 27 Member States.
As the rapporteur says, the existence of comprehensive and uniform statistics by type of goods for all forms of transport would provide a general framework that would be useful for supporting and monitoring the policy of promoting co-modality; that is, the possibility of an optimal combination of different modes of transport in the same transport chain, along with the modernisation of freight logistics.
The objective of this proposal for a regulation by Parliament and the Council is to change Directive 2009/42/EC, with the aim of making the collection of data by type of goods obligatory for maritime transport statistics.
At present, these data are collected on a voluntary basis by 18 Member States.
The proposal for a regulation aims to make mandatory the collection of data by type of goods for maritime transport statistics, as the rapporteur believes that in the majority of cases, the collection of relevant data will not impose any additional burden on respondents, since the Member States concerned should be able to compile these data using existing data sources, for instance, customs documents.
Moreover, the collection of data by type of goods is already mandatory for European road, rail and inland waterways transport statistics.
The purpose of this text is to amend Directive 2009/42/EC to make the collection of data by type of goods mandatory for maritime transport statistics.
The collection of data by type of goods is already mandatory for European statistics concerning transport by road, rail and inland waterways.
The availability of comprehensive and homogenous statistics by type of goods for all modes of transport would provide a useful general framework for supporting and supervising the policy promoting co-modality.
I agree that data on the breakdown by type of goods is necessary for maritime transport statistics.
At the moment, 18 Member States collect this data on a voluntary basis.
The collection of data by type of goods is mandatory for European road, rail and inland waterways transport statistics.
This proposal seeks to establish the mandatory collection of data by type of goods for maritime transport statistics.
At present, this collection of data is carried out on a purely voluntary basis by 18 Member States for shipping, with collection of data by type of goods already mandatory for European road, rail and inland waterways transport statistics.
in writing. - The purpose of this proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council is to amend Directive 2009/42/EC in order to make the collection of data by type of goods mandatory for maritime transport statistics.
These data are currently collected on a voluntary basis by 18 Member States.
In accordance with the Commission proposal, the revision of Directive 2009/42/EC should work along these lines and be applied to data from 2011, in line with the voluntary practice that 18 EU Member States are already developing.
Given that Denmark has submitted a request for assistance for 951 redundancies in 45 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 28 (manufacture of machines and equipment) in the NUTS II region of Nordjylland, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
I also agree that the Commission's proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which led to its approval, in accordance with the requests made by Parliament.
in writing. - The EGAF is an important structural fund in the EU that enables us to aid workers that have been rendered unemployed as a result of the shifts in global trends.
In view of the above, I am in agreement with the decisions that have been established by the rapporteur and have decided to vote in favour of the report.
This is a resolution on the proposed decision of Parliament and the Council on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in terms of Point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 between Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
The machinery and equipment manufacturing industries for the shipping sector in the Danish region of Nordjylland were taken unawares by the changes to the markets and the global credit crunch, having suffered dramatic cuts in orders, which led to redundancies in more than 40 companies.
In regions like Nordjylland that are particularly dependent on one sector, market recovery and the redeployment of workers in other areas of activity tend to be slower and more difficult.
Denmark's plan of action to help 951 people made redundant from 45 machine and equipment manufacturing companies in the small Nordjylland region falls within the same framework.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Denmark because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for support for 1 122 workers at 45 machinery manufacturing companies in the region of Nordjylland, amounting to a sum of EUR 7 521 359 financed by the EGF.
I voted in favour of this report on using funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), specifically for the 951 redundancies that have been made from 45 businesses operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 28 (manufacture of machines and equipment) in the NUTS II region of Nordjylland.
The EGF provides additional help to workers who suffer the consequence of major structural changes in the patterns of global trade, and help with reintegrating into the labour market.
Now it must be ensured that the EGF supports workers who have been made redundant to reintegrate into the labour market, despite the fact that EGF assistance should not replace the measures that are the responsibility of the businesses under national legislation or collective agreements, or measures to restructure businesses or sectors.
I would like to highlight the following as being particularly relevant: (1) the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) supports the reintegration of workers made redundant from the labour market, without absolving the companies of their responsibilities; (2) in the context of the mobilisation of the EGF, the Commission has proposed an alternative sourcing of payment appropriations other than unused European Social Fund (ESF) resources, as Parliament has urged; (3) the functioning and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the IIA of 17 May 2006 within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework (MFF) mid-term review; (4) the Commission's proposal includes information about the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which led to its approval, which is also in line with Parliament's requests.
Given that Denmark has submitted a request for assistance for 951 redundancies in 45 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 28 (manufacture of machines and equipment) in the NUTS II region of Nordjylland, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
I also agree that the Commission's proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which led to its approval, in accordance with the requests made by Parliament.
in writing. - With this vote, the EP takes note of the fact that Denmark has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 951 redundancies in 45 enterprises operating in the NACE Rev. 2 Division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) sector in the NUTS II region of Nordjylland.
The application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation.
In 2010, another 500 workers are expected to be made redundant.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), requested by Denmark, for using EUR 7 521 359 to cofinance the support programme for 951 workers made redundant in the Nordjylland region between 15 February 2009 and 14 November 2009.
The redundancies were made in 45 companies involved in producing machinery and equipment for the shipbuilding sector.
In this region on the north-eastern tip of North Jutland, 951 people in 45 enterprises were made redundant between 15 February and 14 November 2009.
As I had occasion to explain in March this year at the time of the vote on the Böge report, using the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund as a useful instrument for tackling the consequences of the economic and financial crisis is a very valuable initiative that provides a practical response in terms of financial aid.
I also agree with the Commission's proposal of a funding source for alternative payment for unused European Social Fund (ESF) resources, in connection with the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created separately as a specific instrument, with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budgetary headings for transfers.
in writing. - The EGAF is an important structural fund in the EU that enables us to aid workers that have been rendered unemployed as a result of the shifts in global trends.
In view of this, I am in agreement with the decisions that have been established by the rapporteur and have decided to vote in favour of the report.
This situation emphasises the need for a plan to aid the recovery and re-qualification of these former employees, so as to promote their reintegration into the labour market.
I would like to repeat the word of warning about the need to ensure mechanisms to facilitate and speed up the mobilisation and use of European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) resources by European countries.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Netherlands because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for support for 1 590 workers at NXL Semiconductors Netherlands, an electronics company in the regions of Gelderland and Eindhoven, amounting to a sum of EUR 1 809 434 financed by the EGF.
I voted in favour of this report on using funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), specifically for the 512 redundancies that have been made from NXL Semiconductors Netherlands, operating in the electronics sector in the NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Eindhoven.
The EGF provides additional help to workers who suffer the consequences of major structural changes in the patterns of global trade, and help with reintegration into the labour market.
I also agree that the Commission's proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which led to its approval, in accordance with the requests made by Parliament.
in writing. - Whereas the Union's financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the Joint Declaration of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission adopted during the conciliation meeting on 17 July 2008, and having due regard for the IIA of 17 May 2006 in respect of the adoption of decisions to mobilise the EGF; whereas the Netherlands has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 512 redundancies in NXP Semiconductors Netherlands, operating in the electronics sector in the NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Eindhoven; whereas the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation, the EP requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF; recalls the institutions' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; and emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in response to the request submitted by NL/NXP Semiconductors in the Netherlands.
On 26 March 2010, the Netherlands requested financial assistance from the EGF for 512 of the 590 workers made redundant at NXP Semiconductors, which operates in the electronics sector in the NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Eindhoven.
The total number of redundant workers is made up of 425 men and 87 women, which also includes seven workers with serious health problems or a disability (1.3%).
The Netherlands stresses the major impact of these redundancies as NXP Semiconductors is the biggest industrial employer in the area, offering jobs to a large number of low qualified workers who have been employed with the company for several decades.
Mobilising the EGF is particularly important in terms of reintegrating redundant workers into employment.
Since 1 May 2009, the scope of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund has been broadened.
It is also intended to provide support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
In the NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Eindhoven in the Netherlands, 512 workers have been made redundant at NXP Semiconductors Netherlands.
An amount of EUR 1 809 434 is being mobilised to support these workers.
I voted in favour of this report which approved the mobilisation of EUR 2.4 million from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for Portugal, the aim of which is to support the workers made redundant from Qimonda.
The EGF was established in order to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of important structural changes in international trade.
The EGF aid package is intended to safeguard the position of the 839 workers made redundant from Qimonda Portugal between 8 June and 8 October last year.
I therefore believe that it is essential for us to do everything we can to speed up the mobilisation of the EGF, bearing in mind the commitment made by the European institutions in order to ensure a rapid and simple process for approving these decisions.
I also agree that the functioning and added value of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework mid-term review.
in writing. - The EGAF is an important structural fund in the EU that enables us to aid workers that have been rendered unemployed as a result of the shifts in global trends.
For these reasons, I must support the rapporteur in her conclusions and have decided to vote in favour of the report.
It presented this proposal for a decision with a view to mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment fund to support the reintegration of these workers, who are victims of redundancy as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis.
I therefore support this decision, which allows the mobilisation of EUR 2 405 671 under the general EU budget for 2010 in order to provide financial assistance in response to the Portuguese request.
Although I voted in favour of this proposal, I find it regrettable that once again, the Portuguese Government has not known how to make full use of the fund, as has been done in other countries and as is amply demonstrated by the per capita amount of the funds requested from the EGF, when different applications are analysed.
Today, for example, there were votes on other requests for support from the EGF which showed that while former workers from the Dutch company NXP Semiconductors will receive EUR 3 534 per capita, the Danish former employees of Nordjylland will receive EUR 7 908 each.
The Portuguese former employees of Qimonda who are covered by the fund will receive only EUR 2 867 per capita in support from the fund.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for Portugal is crucial, with a view to supporting the workers made redundant from Qimonda.
The mobilisation needs to be simple and swift, and it should include training programmes that contribute to the effective reintegration into the labour market of the workers affected.
The Portuguese company Qimonda, part of a German world leader group, was seen in Portugal as an example of success and as a company at the vanguard of its sector.
In 2008, the company even entertained the possibility of creating three more plants in Portugal, all around the town of Vila do Conde.
The closure of the Qimonda factory in Vila do Conde has exacerbated the high levels of unemployment in the north of Portugal.
In this case, 900 workers were made redundant, the great majority of whom have low levels of education: 36.6% received only basic schooling and only 10.7% proceeded to post-secondary education.
It is therefore worth pointing out the importance of this plan of aid for 839 of the workers made redundant in order to mitigate the impact of the severe economic, financial and social crisis that this region is experiencing.
On the other hand, it is regrettable that in two years, this is only the second application that Portugal has submitted to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in order to receive direct support for workers in the Norte region.
Parliament has approved the mobilisation of EUR 2.4 million from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), aimed at supporting the workers who have been made redundant from Qimonda, following an application by the Portuguese Government on 17 December 2009.
The Norte region, where the redundancies took place, had already been approved for EGF support based on a previous application in 2009 regarding redundancies in the textile sector.
A sum of EUR 832 000 was mobilised on that occasion.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Portugal because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for support for 839 workers at Qimonda Portugal, S.A., an electronics company, amounting to a sum of EUR 2 405 671 financed by the EGF.
I voted in favour of this report on using funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), specifically for the 839 redundancies that have been made from Qimonda AG, a multinational company operating in the electronics sector in the NUTS II region of Norte.
The EGF provides additional help to workers who suffer the consequence of major structural changes in the patterns of global trade, and help with reintegration into the labour market.
Now it must be ensured that the EGF supports workers who have been made redundant to reintegrate into the labour market, despite the fact that EGF assistance should not replace the measures that are the responsibility of the businesses under national legislation or collective agreements, or measures to restructure businesses or sectors.
I would like to highlight the following as being particularly relevant: (1) the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) supports the reintegration of workers made redundant from the labour market, without absolving the companies of their responsibilities; (2) in the context of the mobilisation of the EGF, the Commission has proposed an alternative sourcing of payment appropriations other than unused European Social Fund (ESF) resources, as Parliament has urged; (3) the functioning and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the IIA of 17 May 2006 within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework (MFF) mid-term review; (4) the Commission's proposal includes information about the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which led to its approval, which is also in line with Parliament's requests.
The EGF can and should be streamlined so that victims of collective dismissal do not have to wait 17 months for support which is declared to be urgent, as they have in this case.
I also agree that the Commission's proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which led to its approval, in accordance with the requests made by Parliament.
in writing. - Portugal has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 839 redundancies in Qimonda AG, a multinational firm operating in the electronic sectors in the NUTS II region of Norte.
The application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation.
Given that Portugal has submitted requests for assistance for 839 cases of redundancy at Qimonda S.A., a multinational company which operates in the electronics sector in the NUTS II Norte region, I welcome the adoption of the report by Parliament.
In the multinational firm Qimonda S.A., which operates in the electronics sector in the mid-level region of Norte, there have been 839 redundancies as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
The EUR 2 405 671 mobilised from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund will fund a coordinated package of personalised services, which will be supplemented by national measures and measures taken by the company.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 1 429 redundancies from 23 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the NUTS II region of Catalonia, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
Bearing in mind that Spain has requested assistance in relation to 1 429 redundancies in 23 companies operating in the region of Catalonia, I am voting in favour of this report.
The fall in the demand for cars in the EU is very serious, and production in the second quarter of 2009 decreased by almost 40%, a situation which threatens to jeopardise even more jobs, not only in Spain, but throughout the EU.
The proposed aid plan for 1 429 former employees of 23 manufacturers of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the region of Catalonia, Spain, is urgently required for the technical and professional development of a large number of Europeans who have been directly affected by the current global economic and financial crisis.
In the case of the EGF, only just over 10% of the EUR 500 million provided for in the budget was used this year, which is unacceptable given the extent of unemployment in Europe and the increased difficulties in finding other work.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Spain because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
The report adopted today concerned an application for funding submitted by Spain in relation to 1 429 workers in 23 different firms in the motor vehicle industry, totalling EUR 2 752 935.
Lastly, I must point out that today's vote on the four reports relating to the mobilisation of the EGF to provide total funding of approximately EUR 14 million shows that the fund is a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
I voted in favour of this report on using funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, specifically for the 1 429 redundancies that have been made from 23 businesses operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the NUTS II region of Catalonia.
The EGF provides additional help for workers who suffer the consequence of major structural changes in the patterns of global trade, and to help them to reintegrate into the labour market.
Spain has made an application for EGF funds for redundancies in the automotive sector, which are in line with the fund's Regulation.
Now it must be ensured that the EGF supports workers who have been made redundant to reintegrate into the labour market, despite the fact that EGF assistance should not replace the measures that are the responsibility of the businesses under national legislation or collective agreements, or measures to restructure businesses or sectors.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 1 429 cases of redundancy in 23 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the NUTS II region of Catalonia, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it that were tabled by Parliament.
I would like to highlight the following as being particularly relevant: (1) the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) supports the reintegration of workers made redundant from the labour market, without absolving the companies of their responsibilities; (2) in the context of the mobilisation of the EGF, the Commission has proposed an alternative sourcing of payment appropriations other than unused European Social Fund (ESF) resources, as Parliament has urged; (3) the functioning and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the IIA of 17 May 2006 within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework (MFF) mid-term review; (4) the Commission's proposal includes information about the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which led to its approval, which is also in line with Parliament's requests.
in writing. - Spain has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 1 429 redundancies in 23 enterprises operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) sector in the NUTS II region of Catalonia.
The application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation.
Between February and November 2009, 2 330 workers were made redundant in the Catalonia region alone, with 75% of them being men and nearly 25% of them over the age of 55.
This is an important and highly visible contribution by the European Union, which will demonstrate clearly to these people that the EU wants, and is able, to also help individuals in emergency situations.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was set up in 2006 with a ceiling of EUR 500 million to help job seekers find new jobs, to finance specific training courses, to help workers set up their own businesses, and to provide temporary income supplements in the form of mobility allowances, job search allowances, and allowances for training or reintegration into the labour market.
The EGF is showing a good degree of flexibility and is providing assistance in specific cases in many regions of Europe.
I welcome this report, which arranges the implementation of this convention and the recommendations adopted by the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC), allowing the adoption of control and enforcement measures for all fishing vessels which are being used, or are intended to be used, in fishing-oriented activities as fisheries resources.
The highest priority needs to be given to the implementation of measures by regional fisheries organisations (RFOs) for combating illegal fishing, so that the system of monitoring and enforcement adopted by this convention should be rapidly implemented in EU law, with Parliament informed in a comprehensive and timely manner of all stages of the negotiations with RFOs, ensuring that observers from this institution are present at the negotiations.
I voted for this report because I agree that the scheme of control and enforcement adopted by the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries must be transposed into EU law.
At the same time, however, it is appropriate to question Parliament's role in this review.
I voted in favour of the report on a system of monitoring and enforcement applicable to the area of the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries (NEAFC) as it introduces a new scheme of monitoring and enforcement measures to ensure the conservation and balanced use of fisheries resources in the region.
In particular, this scheme includes the monitoring of vessels carrying out illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing and a monitoring system to be carried out by the country of the port where the fishery products are unloaded.
The current proposal aims to update EU regulations that transpose the monitoring and enforcement system adopted by the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC) convention.
I voted in favour of this document because I share the view that the system of monitoring and enforcement adopted by the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries (NEAFC) needs to be carried into EU law.
In 2007 and 2008, Parliament was not represented at the annual meeting of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (NAFO).
I cannot therefore neglect to say that in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament should be represented in future discussions on international conventions on this matter.
The proposed monitoring system includes provisions to promote compliance with conservation and enforcement measures for vessels from non-contracting parties, and thus ensure full compliance with the conservation and management measures adopted by the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries (NEAFC).
It is important to point out that monitoring of fishing activities today places increased demands on the Member States, whether under the common fisheries policy (CFP) or within the scope of the regional fisheries organisations.
The Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries, to which the Community and the EU have now become a contracting party, came into force in 1982.
Control and implementation measures can be introduced to ensure that this convention and the recommendations adopted by the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC) are put into effect.
There are new measures concerned in relation to regulating vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
I voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation laying down a scheme of control and enforcement applicable in the area covered by the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries, to which the EU is a signatory, because I believe that that scheme needs to be incorporated into EU law.
In 2006, the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission adopted a new scheme aimed at improving control and enforcement of its recommendations, and then both the European Union and the European Parliament said they were fully in favour of adopting these recommendations.
In particular, there is strong support for the new provisions for introducing a port state control system, which will close European ports to landings and transhipments of frozen fish which have not been verified to be legal by the authorities of the state in question.
The fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is crucial in order to preserve the sustainability of fisheries resources, along with ensuring greater fairness and equality in the distribution of wealth.
The European Parliament has stressed on several occasions that full priority should be given to measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing applied by regional fisheries organisations (RFOs).
Council Regulation (EC) No 1005/2008 establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (the IUU Regulation) entered into force on 1 January 2010.
Council Regulation (EC) No 1006/2008 concerning authorisations for fishing activities of Community fishing vessels outside Community waters and the access of third country vessels to Community waters, establishes that EU fishing vessels are obliged to be in possession of a fishing permit in order to conduct fishing activities outside EU waters.
I therefore voted in favour of the Fraga report as I feel there is a need to control illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
The report mentions the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries, which came into force on 17 March 1982.
The North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (the NEAFC) was established to ensure control over the recommendations laid down in that document.
in writing. - The Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries, to which the EU is a contracting party, was approved by Council Decision 81/608/EEC and entered into force on 17 March 1982.
The aim of this proposal is to update EU legislation transposing NEAFC's control and enforcement scheme.
To allow the new NEAFC scheme to be implemented, the proposal envisages the subsequent repeal of Council Regulation (EC) No 2791/1999 of 16 December 1999, which implemented the first scheme adopted by NEAFC in 1998.
Adoption of this report means that the new recommendations that entered into force between 2007 and 2010 become law, and their transposition is an important instrument both in the fight against illegal fishing and in order to prevent a legal vacuum for EU fleets.
These improvements are crucial as a way of promoting the common fisheries policy (CFP) in future.
I believe, however, that in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament should be represented in future discussions on international conventions.
I voted in favour of this document because I share the view that the system of monitoring and enforcement adopted by the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries needs to be carried into EU law.
In 2007 and 2008, Parliament was not represented at the annual meeting of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (NAFO).
I cannot, therefore, neglect to mention that in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament should be represented at future discussions on international conventions on this matter.
Indeed, the Commission proposal for implementation into Union law is dated 8 March 2010, so more than two years went by before the document was drafted and Parliament was able to hear it.
The Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries was signed on 24 October 1978 in Ottawa and came into force on 1 January 1979.
At the Annual NAFO Meetings in 2007 and 2008, the contracting parties to the convention adopted the 'Amendment to the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries'.
The Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries was signed in Ottawa on 24 October 1978 and entered into force on 1 January 1979 after the instruments of ratification, acceptance and adoption were deposited with the government of Canada by the seven contracting parties.
The contracting parties to the convention adopted the Amendment to the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries at the annual NAFO meetings in 2007 (English version) and 2008 (French version).
The amendment is an overall revision of the convention, with the main purpose of bringing it more into line with other regional conventions and international instruments and incorporating modern fisheries management concepts into it, which is why I voted in favour of it.
New measures are introduced to control vessels that carry out illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
The Wałęsa report amends the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (NAFO) Convention of 1978 and represents a step forward for cooperation and management of fisheries resources in the north-western Atlantic.
The EU is one of the contracting parties in this regional fisheries organisation (RFO) and, like the other contracting parties, at the NAFO annual meeting in 2007 it adopted the amendment to the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries.
In 2007 and 2008, the European Parliament was not represented at the annual meetings of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation.
in writing. - The Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries was signed on 24 October 1978 in Ottawa and came into force on 1 January 1979 following the deposit with the government of Canada of the instruments of ratification, acceptance and approval by seven signatories.
The Contracting Parties to the Convention adopted the, 'Amendment to the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries', (the Amendment) at the Annual Meetings of NAFO in 2007 (English version) and in 2008 (French version).
This situation is even more serious if we take into account the increase in undeclared female workers, and the fact that many women have no choice but to accept precarious jobs.
It is very important to grant all employees equal access to social services and benefits, including maternity leave, healthcare and retirement pensions, as well as to education and training, regardless of their employment conditions.
I voted in favour of the report because I agree with the need to combat this problem and to call on the Member States and social partners to align, to a large extent, their legislative and contractual rules.
Such change should, however, be managed to avoid speculation to the detriment of the weakest individuals in contractual terms, particularly those who find themselves in disadvantaged situations.
I voted in favour of combating precarious work, which has been a growing feature of the economic crisis.
This will help eradicate more effectively the lack of job security, the low level of wages, in most cases, not declared for tax purposes, the lack of social protection for people employed on a casual basis, as well as a working environment devoid of minimum health and safety standards and of protection for workers against accidents.
At the same time, these measures will help us fight more effectively against gender-related discrimination, which is predominant in the area of precarious work where women, in particular, are the victims of these subhuman working conditions.
I think that Member States must penalise the imposition of obstacles to trade union participation and also offer low threshold advisory services for women who cannot receive support from a works council, such as women employed in private households and in agriculture.
According to the latest available data, 31.5% of employed women work part-time compared with only 8.3% of employed men.
Precarious work is not a gender issue, although it can be particularly high amongst women, and any view that tries to reduce it to a gender issue is simplistic.
The current economic and financial crisis has increased the problem of poor female workers who often find themselves in a particularly vulnerable position in terms of work, as they have to juggle work with family commitments.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree that there is a need to combat this problem, urging the Member States and their social partners to develop new and effective strategies on job insecurity, taking into account the principle of gender equality.
I would like to highlight the request in this resolution for the Commission to submit a proposal on the implementation of the principle of equal pay for men and women.
The most important positive proposals in the report are as follows: It calls upon the Commission to support the Member States in developing a campaign for a step-by-step transformation of precarious female workers into regular workers; It asks the Commission and the Member States to develop strategies on precarious work in order to emphasise decent and green jobs and incorporate gender balance; It urges the Council and the Commission to identify the characteristics of precarious employment in the guidelines for the Member States' employment policies and in the new gender equality strategy.
There are still numerous disparities between men and women in terms of potential jobs, quality of work, income and remuneration.
It is therefore paramount that the Commission should act to actively promote equal opportunities between men and women within the framework of employment policy, through a future strategy on gender equality, through the gradual transition from the status of precarious worker to regular worker, and through supporting national initiatives in this direction.
This also makes it more difficult for women to find work, and those who do have work are paid less than men who do the same jobs.
The economic crisis has exacerbated these problems and shown the extent to which women are being exploited in the labour market.
We should fight the way in which the difficult position people find themselves in is being exploited to force them to work in unscrupulous and unhealthy conditions - especially if we are talking about women who also have to fight against stereotypes.
In most countries, there has been a change in the conditions that prevailed until some time ago, whereby many more women were engaged in precarious work.
It often happens that such women are less likely to be informed about their rights and end up being more exposed to the danger of losing any legal protection and being unfairly dismissed without any chance of appeal.
Precariousness affects more women than men in Europe, thus exacerbating gender disparities at work, particularly in terms of social rights and wages.
This situation is even more severe in domestic work and work carried out by female migrant workers.
It is necessary to ensure gender equality and social rights in the workplace.
Combating precariousness and the double burden of work on women should be the EU's most pressing objectives, and I therefore support this report, as it represents a step in that direction.
I support this motion for a resolution because we need to go further in combating direct and indirect discrimination on the grounds of gender.
For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, which, among other points, highlights the need to ensure gender equality and to reduce segregation on the basis of gender in the labour market, and asks the Member States to combat undeclared work so that it becomes formal employment.
I support the report on precarious women workers because I cannot conceive that in the 21st century, major differences persist in relation to women in the European Union with regard to employment opportunities, quality of work, income and equal pay for equal work or work of equal value.
The financial and economic crisis has made precarious work an even more visible and urgent problem.
Women employed in these sectors are not employed on a full-time basis, which means that their salaries and pensions are lower, they receive lower levels of social support and lack career advancement opportunities.
In view of the abovementioned problems, I voted in favour of the report, which proposes a solution to this difficult situation with regard to employment policy.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Thomsen.
Furthermore, within this category, women are in an even more critical position.
The problem of precarious work is rife among women, especially in the services sector and agriculture, and effective measures are urgently needed to change this situation.
Traditionally, all forms of insecurity or volubility in employment hit female manual workers first and hardest, with lower wages, even for equal work, with higher unemployment rates and with greater job insecurity due to longstanding social factors, but also specifically because of motherhood.
In this context, combating job insecurity, particularly for women, represents a very constructive contribution to social stability and gender equality, one of the fundamental values espoused by the European Union.
The current economic and financial crisis has also seen a rise in the number of precarious jobs being carried out, especially by women.
The number of so-called precarious workers is increasing as a result of the present economic crisis.
Conscious of the need to increase their protection, I supported the resolution by the European Parliament on precarious workers.
I also trust that the Barcelona objectives for childcare will be implemented as quickly as possible and that obstacles which prevent women from working the number of hours they want, be it on a part-time or full-time basis, will be eliminated.
in writing. - This was a crucial report and I am glad the EP has adopted it, mainly because it points out the gendered nature of precarious employment and recalls the shift in the labour market from standard to non-standard types of employment, making it necessary to prevent non-standard types of employment from becoming precarious work; considers that, in order to combat these problems, the Member States and social partners must be asked to align to a large extent their legislative and contractual rules on standard work and atypical work, so as to prevent the most convenient and least expensive forms of work from taking precedence, taking into account, however, the risks of a possible increase in undeclared work; and urges the Council and the Commission to identify the characteristics of precarious employment in the guidelines for the Member States' employment policies and in the new gender equality strategy.
In these circumstances, women who are ready to return to work after periods of absence due to illness or childbirth often find that they have no job.
Our delegation is highly sensitive to these problems and, I would add, to the very similar issues of women who are not employed but are self-employed.
The economic crisis has contributed to destabilisation of the labour market.
This has been particularly felt by women, who comprise the greatest percentage of workers engaged in what is known as precarious employment.
This situation has also hindered the professional development of women and has contributed to the consolidation of gender stereotypes in relation to work.
Therefore, women working in what is known as precarious employment deserve special protection.
Part-time workers have a lower income and, consequently, receive lower pensions than those in full-time work.
in writing. - The ECR Group firmly and consistently believes that decisions relating to social policy and employment law should not be made at EU level but at Member State level by national and local governments.
