Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) (debate) The next item is the Commission's statement on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA).
Indeed, on 2 October 2010, negotiators from the EU and 10 other countries concluded the last round of negotiations.
The Ombudsman confirmed that the preservation of confidentiality was legal and in line with the 2001 Regulation on access to documents.
Firstly, a broad coverage of intellectual property rights (IPRs).
In particular, we have managed to ensure that Europe's geographical indications (GIs) will be treated equally.
ACTA thus represents a ground-breaking - yet balanced - level of harmonisation and transparency for the rules applicable to such infringements, whilst remaining fully in line with the EU acquis.
Secondly, the other important issue has to do with the EU proposal that the Internet measures stipulated in ACTA must apply not only to copyright but - at least - also to trademark violations.
ACTA is the first important international agreement on IPRs since the TRIPS agreement in the WTO back in 1994.
It is right and important that we should assure the European Parliament that the Commission really does report on the status of negotiations in a transparent way.
It would be really great if the Commission could once again show us that this really is copper-fastened.
I particularly welcome the section on the Internet.
I am not looking to criminalise any of our citizens, but I believe that it must be possible for artists and creators also to pursue their intellectual property rights on the Internet and I welcome the fact that the ACTA agreement offers a first step in this direction.
It must be possible to secure and protect our European origin labelling and information in the same way as trademarks like Coca Cola, Kellogg's Cornflakes, etc.
Some may say that a person with 500 songs on his or her MP3 player necessarily has commercial objectives, but why would others deny themselves the opportunity to fix this limit at 300, 100, 50 or 10?
The Commissioner has given his important assurances, but it would be unacceptable if the acquis communautaire were tarnished, as still appears to be the case, by the possibility of legal injunctions provided for by Article 2, and by the possibility of criminal sanctions, including for individual users, as provided for by Article 2(14)(1).
I appreciate the highly important assurances on access to medicine for developing countries, but we know that the list of countries adhering to the ACTA is very limited and excludes the great powers of counterfeiting, in Asia, in particular, but not only there.
So for this reason, given everything we have to lose on geographic indications and risks on the Internet, the impression - for now - is that the agreement represents only a disadvantage and on this basis, perhaps it is better to let it drop.
We, as Members of the European Parliament, will soon be asked by you, the Commission, to approve this agreement.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I think we should start off by welcoming some of these statements that were made this evening and the fact that, following the Tokyo Round, the Commission released the text to the Parliament, which will ultimately be in a position to give consent or not to these agreements.
I think we played a role in this Parliament in putting pressure on the Commission, so it, in turn, can talk to its negotiating partners about the need for greater transparency.
There are obviously differences of opinion in this House on intellectual property rights.
Nonetheless, some of our original criticism with regard to the aspects relating to the Internet has had some effect and some of the more harmful proposals have been dropped. (DE) Mr President, the ACTA negotiations seem to be more or less concluded.
However, these last points include the area of application of the agreement as a whole.
Perhaps this would then also give rise to some practical solutions in the agreement itself. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the European Commission and, in particular, Commissioner De Gucht, for the tough negotiations it is carrying out with the United States, a task that aims to find a point of convergence on an agreement that unfortunately seems to be never ending.
Europe must continue to concentrate on two fundamental points.
The European Union must send a clear message to the rest of the world: the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement must be a bulwark against all counterfeiting. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, international agreements have to be submitted to the European Parliament for approval.
Yet, every day, I receive messages from concerned citizens and companies and, still, there is a general consensus among the groups in the European Parliament that this draft agreement undermines the fundamental rights of our citizens and passengers from third countries.
The preamble states that ACTA seeks 'to promote cooperation between service providers and rights holders'.
The most stubborn of all seems to be the myth that, as a consequence of ACTA, customs will start to inspect ipods and computers.
I believe that if Shakespeare had written a play about the debate surrounding ACTA, he would have named this one 'Much Ado about Nothing', too.
However, it does not mean that ACTA is not important or that it is unnecessary, as someone said here in this Chamber.
The fact that this text was negotiated by the Council places it outside the Commission's scope of negotiation and therefore, perhaps, of the EU acquis.
I still have the basic concerns that have been with us all along, and I would very much like to see a proper evaluation of the fundamental rights aspects of this agreement. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, of course, the attempt to reach good international agreements is very praiseworthy and I freely admit that this is a far from easy task.
Now, that would be an ill-advised development and you have not given us any clarification of this point in your proposal.
Put our minds at ease, Mr De Gucht, and test ACTA against fundamental rights.
Yesterday, your Commission published a strategy to that effect.
The idea of a multilateral agreement to combat piracy and counterfeiting may be an effective mechanism for curbing such activities.
I consider it equally essential that a balance be struck between the rights we are interested in protecting and the rights that are essential in society.
However, it would be a failure for the Union if, for example, protection for geographical indications were cut back; for example, if non-European countries were not required to protect Karlovy Vary waffles, or the aforementioned champagne, throughout their territory.
Finally, I would ask the Commissioner or the Commission to present to us a detailed analysis of the impact of ACTA on the European Union.
The joint declaration of 16 April issued by all the ACTA parties is quite clear.
ACTA will be in line with the current EU regime for enforcement of IPRs, which fully respect fundamental rights and freedoms and civil liberties, such as the protection of personal data.
I have made several statements in this plenary that there has been no infringement whatsoever of fundamental rights or the acquis communautaire in any way, and I must say that in the three debates that we have already had in this plenary, none of you has given an example of problems related to fundamental liberties.
It is the Commission that has made sure that this happens; that you have the text before you that was negotiated in Tokyo, and that you got it a couple of days after it was finalised.
I think we have respected these rules scrupulously.
We have not yet made a decision in the Commission on what we are actually going to do, because we still have a couple of reserves that we want to settle with the United States before making up our minds.
An international treaty that would adopt standards similar to those of the EU, but also to those already in place in countries like the US or Japan, would still be a most valuable contribution to the current prevailing international standard as defined by the WTO TRIPS agreement.
Let me add that the principle of cooperation between rightholders is already in Article 15 of the e-Commerce Directive since 2003, so this is not a new concept.
Let me further say that what is often overlooked in the debate on ACTA are the number of jobs of EU citizens that relate to intellectual property rights and we often discuss jobs on all sides of the House.
The reference is made to controls at the borders where it is clear that ACTA adds nothing to what already exists.
On the other hand, what is very clear, and what is documented in all kinds of impact studies that have already been done by the way by the Commission, on all kinds of items, is that a lot of our jobs are linked to intellectual property rights and that is one of the reasons we attach such importance to that topic.
This agreement is an absolute necessity for establishing common international standards on the enforcement of intellectual property legislation.
In this case, I am referring, in particular, to intellectual property infringements in the digital media and Internet where a clear difference ought to be made in terms of treatment between large-scale piracy for commercial purposes and isolated, random cases of intellectual fraud.
