Explanations of vote The next item is explanations of vote. (ET) Mr President, inherent in the concept of Europe working together is the idea that, in principle, the euro area can only go in two directions: it can either become stronger or disintegrate.
In the current economic situation, a practical and decisive political response is needed.
The Parliament, like the European Council up to now, refused to take the hard decisions.
The debt is unsustainable.
The mechanism should now be brought as close as possible to EU institutions.
It is also important and a good thing that the United Kingdom and Sweden, countries outside the euro area, can participate in this mechanism.
Public opinion is treated not as a reason to change direction, but as an obstacle to be overcome.
Of course, we want a strong euro zone, especially for those members outside the euro zone.
What the Brok/Gualtieri report wanted was for the European Parliament and for the Commission effectively to interfere with an intergovernmental mechanism.
However, I think it is very important that we continue to push for further liberalisation not only on the EU-US agreement but also in the emerging markets of Asia, so I welcome the move today with regard to the agreement on the EU-Vietnam agreement.
Long may we continue to have better access to the growing markets of the world. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Balzani, for the excellent work she has accomplished.
Supporting the 2020 Strategy is without doubt not only a sign of credibility but also of consistency in the actions of Parliament.
Today, at such a delicate time in which the difficulties in the Mediterranean above all, but also in Japan, are directly linked to a rapidly changing situation, an authoritative and credible Parliament is needed, together with responses that provide a boost for growth, competitiveness and intelligent sustainability in the things that need to be done. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that at such a delicate time for the finances of the Member States of Europe, as was said a short time ago, I should like to sound an alarm about an expenditure that is under discussion in the Committee on Budgets: the astonishing case of the vast expenses set aside for the House of European History.
We already own the Eastman Building, but between EUR 26 million and EUR 31 million have been allocated merely for renovation costs, plus EUR 3.3 million for the plans alone.
The fixed costs amount to more than EUR 3 million whilst the variable costs come to EUR 3.2 million, plus EUR 3.2 million for a 50-strong staff, EUR 2 million for security and then EUR 13.45 million are required just to manage it.
This, however, would be a disgrace. (DE) Mr President, I would like to make three comments, if I may, with regard to the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget.
I believe that should also continue to be the case. (ET) Mr President, legal immigration undoubtedly has a large role to play in promoting European economic development and improving competitiveness.
This report contained the provisions that are currently lacking in our framework of standards, and I therefore supported the creation of a legal framework in this area, something which I consider to be very important. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, administrative simplification and facilitating access to relevant information are the right instruments to make the European labour market more attractive to third-country workers.
Provisions for a single application procedure leading to one combined title encompassing both residence and work permits within one administrative act will contribute to simplifying and harmonising the rules currently applicable in Member States.
That is why I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Mathieu. - (SK) Mr President, I voted against the approved draft of the directive.
It is equally vital to try and create a single set of rights for third country nationals legally living and working in any of the EU Member States.
Since these changes were not incorporated into the directive on economic migration, I think it was not correct of the parties on the right to approve it. (FI) Mr President, first of all, the fact that this single permit promises the same rights and the same treatment for foreign workers is a good starting point.
We have to ensure that human rights in the European Union are implemented in such a way that workers coming here from third countries also receive the same pay and the same levels of social security, and that the same conditions of employment apply to them as well as the other employees.
I am rather worried about one matter concerning the report, although I did vote in favour of it.
This is the scope of application of Article 3, which still does not cover posted or seasonal workers or intracorporate transferees from third countries.
The onestopshop principle is a positive thing: the idea that everyone can apply for this permit in one place and that they no longer have to hop from pillar to post because of red tape. (DE) Mr President, I absolutely agree with those Members who say that we must ensure equal treatment for workers from third countries who have been employed in the EU for more than a year.
No doubt that will fall on the taxpayer as well. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the fragmentation of the rules on consumer rights creates a very significant obstacle to cross-border purchases and sales and is also a problem for the effective creation of a real internal market.
I believe that the proposal for a directive, which was sent back to committee today with important additions, can contribute to mapping out a clear legal framework on consumer rights. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by revising the four current directives, this report aims to bring an end to a fragmentation of the legal framework that has so far hindered the completion of the internal market.
I therefore supported this report. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text voted on today is the result of a long and complicated journey that began in October 2008 with the aim of putting the consumer at the heart of the protection offered for purchases made abroad.
The objective that the Union and the EU institutions must set themselves is to help the internal market to function better, with the aim of increasing consumer confidence whilst at the same time supporting our businesses.
The directive shows our desire to harmonise the regulations currently in force in the different legal systems in a much more incisive way, avoiding the legal fragmentation that unfortunately has very often ended up being a hindrance both to undertakings - whose aim is to be able to be competitive on the cross-border market - and to consumers.
For these reasons, I consented to and voted in favour of this report. (FI) Mr President, the reform of the directive on consumer rights has been a long and sporadic process.
Legislation on consumers and small entrepreneurs must always be as clear as possible and easy to understand.
Accordingly, it is good that the directive is being referred back to committee, as Parliament today decided it should. (FI) Mr President, up until now the internal market of the European Union has been developed on the terms of mainly large companies.
This issue should be approached at the level of the public, and the different situations in the various Member States need to be understood. (DE) Mr President, I think the approach being taken to harmonise our fragmented European consumer law, which poses a barrier to trade, is a sound one and the right way to go.
I therefore welcome this consumer rights directive.
It will give some benefits to consumers and small businesses.
The plea that I would make to the Commission is that we need a framework for completing the single market, as opposed to the rather disconnected series of initiatives that we have at the moment. (ET) Mr President, the adoption of the harmonised European Consumer Rights Directive is certainly one way of improving the functioning of the internal market.
Unfortunately, the full harmonisation of consumer rights in the European Union is still not a reality today.
I therefore supported the adoption of this document. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, news of the earthquake swarm that has been affecting the Far East and Japan in particular since 11 March has left us all astonished by the scale of the human tragedy that is unfolding.
Europe must invest and must also direct the Member States to concentrate more closely and more effectively on alternative energy sources.
These lessons relate in particular to nuclear power stations.
Written explanation of vote I support this report, which once again points out that we should help Moldova to recover economically, taking into account that about 40% of its economy is dependent on agriculture.
I completely agree with the measures proposed by the rapporteur in order to have an agreement that is more comprehensive and relevant to the economic recovery of this country, which is an EU partner.
The wine sector alone employs approximately 300 000 people, most of whom live in rural areas.
I voted for this amendment in trade relations with the Republic of Moldova in order to increase the volume of duty-free wine imports.
I would like to express my support for the economic recovery of Moldova and offer a positive outlook for the people who work in the country's wine industry.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, which in no way jeopardises the EU wine industry.
I voted for the report on introducing autonomous trade preferences for the Republic of Moldova, given that this sends a positive signal from the EU to this country, a member of the Eastern Partnership, which recently stated that it hopes to be able to submit its application to join the European Union in 2011.
Increasing the duty-free tariff rate quota for wine and extending the validity of Council Regulation No 55/2008 until the end of 2015 would help this country where the number of workers in the wine industry has risen to 300 000 and the agricultural sector accounts for 40% of GDP, without affecting the Union's economy at the same time.
in writing. - (PT) This draft legislative resolution by Parliament is based on a proposal for a regulation by Parliament and the Council which amends Council Regulation (EC) No 55/2008 introducing autonomous trade preferences for the Republic of Moldova.
Despite the efforts being made by its people and the reforms implemented by its government, the Republic of Moldova is undergoing a difficult situation due to the crisis which the wine sector, the most productive sector in the country, is facing, as it represents 40% of Moldova's economy and employs more than a quarter of its working population.
I also welcome and am voting in favour of this draft legislative resolution to extend Council Regulation (EC) No 55/2008 until 31 December 2015, and I hope that a 'deep and comprehensive free trade area' will be set up between the EU and the Republic of Moldova by that date.
The Commission is proposing an increase in the quota from 100 000 hl to 150 000 hl in 2011, from 120 000 hl to 180 000 hl in 2012, and from 2013 onwards to 240 000 hl per year.
This consideration has taken account of the situation of crisis which many producers, particularly small and medium-sized producers, are currently facing in countries such as Portugal, with the dramatic drop in production prices and the incessant increases in input costs.
Although the Community's executive states that the level of increase does not jeopardise the EU wine industry, given that there is doubt, and in the interests of Portuguese agriculture, we have abstained from voting.
Moldova has asked the Commission to increase its duty free tariff quota for wine under the autonomous trade preferences granted to the country in a 2008 regulation.
In order to support Moldova's economic recovery and provide a positive outlook for people working in the wine industry in the country (one quarter of the workforce), there is a proposed increase in the duty free tariff quota for wine, from 100 000 hl to 150 000 hl for 2011, from 120 000 hl to 180 000 hl for 2012, and from 2013 onwards to 240 000 hl per year.
Currently around 90% of all imports from Moldova...' (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) The Commission's proposal provides for a change to the regulations for relations with the Republic of Moldova.
Given the period of crisis that the country in question is facing, the plan aims to increase the amount of wine imported from Moldova.
According to the Commission, these imports would have a minimal impact on our markets and yet I do not feel that I can support the proposal in this current period of major economic crisis, which is already putting our farmers and wineries under serious pressure.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because in order to support Moldova's economic recovery and provide the people working in the wine industry in Moldova with a positive outlook, it is proposed to increase the duty free tariff quota for wine for 2011 from 100,000 hectolitres (hl) to 150,000 hl, for 2012 from 120,000 hl to 180,000 hl, and from 2013 onwards to 240,000 hl per year.
Moldova is experiencing difficulties with its wine exports to some of its traditional markets, which threaten its economic recovery and the reform process that it is vigorously pursuing.
The arguments given in Vital Moreira's report are convincing, Moldova needs Council Regulation (EC) No 55/2008 to be extended for a further three years, until 31 of December 2015.
The request made by the Republic of Moldova in July 2010 is justified.
As the poorest country in Europe, the Republic of Moldova needs the support of the EU.
This is our moral duty in the interests of European unity and harmony.
in writing. - (IT) In the context of the Union's neighbourhood policy, Moldova has always adopted an ambitious programme of political association and increasing economic integration with the EU, thereby making decisive progress towards convergence of its own laws with EU legislation and regulations ahead of the preparation for future, more extensive negotiations.
We therefore believe it is necessary to extend the validity of the regulation on some autonomous trade preferences by three years so as to give Moldova enough time to adequately prepare for the negotiations on the free trade area.
Beginning with these considerations, the report that we have adopted aims to encourage Moldova's economic recovery, in particular by increasing the tariff quota exempt from duties of some products subject to current autonomous trade preferences.
The efforts highlighted here have been consistent and have demonstrated Moldova's concern with continuing on the route towards possible enlargement.
Thus, in order to support Moldova's economic recovery and provide a positive perspective for people working in the wine industry in the country (one quarter of the workforce), there is a proposed increase in the duty free tariff quota for wine, from 100 000 hl to 150 000 hl for 2011, from 120 000 hl to 180 000 hl for 2012, and from 2013 onwards to 240 000 hl per year.
in writing. - (LT) I agree with this resolution which proposes increasing autonomous trade preferences for the Republic of Moldova in the wine sector, which is vitally important for this country.
Indeed, I think it is a good idea for the countries bordering the EU to receive reciprocal trade concessions, both for economic development and socio-political issues.
Within the scope of this neighbourhood policy, Regulation (EC) No 55/2008 introduces a specific system of autonomous trade preferences for the Republic of Moldova, which provides free access to the EU market for all products from Moldova, with the exception of certain agricultural products listed in its annex, for which limited concessions have been given either in the form of exemption from customs duties within the limit of tariff quotas, or in the form of lower customs duties.
Given the fact that the economy of Moldova is being heavily hit by the negative effects of the global financial and economic crisis, and that its wine sector employs about 300 000 workers, this report, which I voted for, proposes the increase of the current tariff quota for wine in order to support Moldova's efforts and to provide an attractive and viable market for its wine exports, which, moreover, do not compete with Portuguese products.
Calls on the Commission to refer the matter to Parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3.
The Republic of Moldova is going through a difficult period in terms of its wine exports, which is having a negative effect on the process of reform and economic recovery being undertaken by its government.
The wine sector provides work for around 300 000 people (a quarter of the active population of the country) who mostly live in rural areas, cultivating small or medium-sized family plots.
I am in favour of this report, given the amendments that were introduced in order to extend the validity of the current system - the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) - until December 2013, taking into account the uncertainty as to the time required to complete the current legislative process.
The adoption of this report thus avoids a break in the legal coverage of the GSP and prevents disparities in treatment between different countries.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report since the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) is a highly important trade and development mechanism that the EU has at hand.
However, I would like to urge the Commission to come up with a more substantial review of the GSP scheme as soon as possible.
I also think it is time for us to engage in a more substantial review of the GSP and GSP+ beneficiaries' lists.
The European Parliament should be consulted on this issue from the earliest stage.
I also expect that Parliament will be involved in the process of monitoring whether the GSP+ beneficiaries uphold the 27 ILO and UN conventions, something that must be scrutinised thoroughly in order to maintain the reliability of the GSP+ mechanism.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report.
In 1968, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) recommended the creation of a Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) under which industrialised countries would grant trade preferences to all developing countries on a non-reciprocal basis, not just to former colonies.
In 1968, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development recommended the creation of a Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) under which industrialised countries would grant trade preferences to all developing countries on a non-reciprocal basis.
The European Community was the first to implement a GSP scheme and since its creation the GSP has been one of the key EU trade and development policy instruments to assist developing countries reduce poverty by generating revenue through international trade.
The new proposal must aim at making the GSP a clearer and more transparent system.
I think that it must be extended in order to achieve legal certainty and guarantee the interests of both the EU and the beneficiary countries.
in writing. - (FR) Parliament has just agreed to extend the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) for developing countries to run from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2013.
We are calling for greater transparency and genuine cooperation during the GSP negotiations with each country.
Commissioner De Gucht has undertaken to ensure that the European Parliament is closely involved in the decision-making process.
in writing. - (PT) The current regulation which establishes the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) will expire by the end of this year.
These propose an effective system that will respond better to the interests of the recipient countries and economic operators, and rules that provide for a reform process which ensures the participation of the recipients and which will also ensure that Parliament can carry out its task of democratic oversight.
in writing. - (PT) In 1968 the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) recommended the creation of a Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) under which countries that were considered to be more developed would support developing countries by granting trade preferences.
The Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) is a trade mechanism which allows the EU to grant developing countries preferential, non-reciprocal access to its market through tariff reductions.
In effect, many developing countries have become increasingly economically dependent and have been shaping their economies according to a model of reduced diversification, based on a limited set of products for export, instead of developing their internal markets.
There needs to be a comprehensive review of this mechanism, along with a thorough discussion of its various aspects and complexities and their impact not only on developing countries, but also on the EU Member States, particularly the weakest.
However, the importance of this subject for both developing countries and EU Member States with weaker economies, whose industrial, agricultural or social interests are not always respected in the international trade agreements promoted by the Commission, makes it necessary to conduct a thorough discussion on the new regulation.
The Commission should submit the proposal for this as soon as possible so as to allow all the different aspects and complexities of the Generalised System of Preferences to be properly analysed, along with its impact on different areas and countries.
in writing. - (IT) The Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) has been one of the key EU trade and development policy instruments to assist developing countries to reduce poverty.
in writing. - (DE) Trade is an important and efficient instrument for combating poverty in developing countries.
The transitional regulation on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences legally enshrines preferential access to the EU market for 176 developing countries.
The resolution on the proposal to amend Council Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 applying a system of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 was adopted by a wide majority in this House.
Ever since 1971, Europe has tried to support and assist developing countries in order to reduce poverty by generating revenue through international trade.
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the procedure to change the GSP requires the intervention of the Council and of Parliament, which must pursue the creation of an effective system that is sensitive to the interests of the beneficiary countries whilst also requiring them to ratify and implement 27 international conventions on the protection of human rights, sustainable development, fundamental labour standards and good governance.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which is a technical rollover to the GSP regulation.
It extends the duration of the regulation until 31 December 2013 in order to allow sufficient time for the new regulation to be drafted by the Commission and for Parliament to exercise its new powers in international trade policy.
We are all convinced that since its creation the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) has been one of the key European Union trade and development policy instruments.
So far we have seen a certain underuse of the trade preferences guaranteed by the GSP, above all those related to the rules of origin, caused by a problem in the administrative procedures that characterise them.
in writing. - (PT) The existing regulation on generalised tariff preferences expires at the end of this year.
We have approved the extension of the current regulation while we await the new draft regulation that has been requested in order to guarantee legal certainty.
However, the European Parliament's new powers in the field of trade following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon must be taken into account.
in writing. - (DE) As long ago as 1964, some developing countries were already calling loudly for trade preferences in order to improve their economic situation.
The European Economic Community introduced the GSP in 1971 and other nations like the United States followed suit.
As the current scheme expires on 31 December of this year, the Commission already presented a new proposal back in May 2010.
I am abstaining from the vote because there do not seem to be any new, tangible proposals for the new regulation.
The regulation currently in force for generalised tariff preferences that enable free trade or lower duties in the trade of products between Member States and third countries, a regulation which is generally used to encourage trade with poor and/or developing countries, needs to be changed and put back into place, given its forthcoming expiry.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a new regulation on this subject because I agree with the objectives of the changes it aims to bring in.
The amendment aims to create an effective system that is more sensitive to the interests of the beneficiary countries and economic operators, to develop more comprehensive rules and to guarantee Parliament's role as the body of democratic control.
After the failure of the Doha negotiations, these measures can only really be provisional, ahead of a more long-term solution.
Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 established a Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) that is valid until 31 December 2011.
The GSP has been one of the EU's main trade and development policy instruments for helping developing countries to reduce poverty, by generating income through international trade.
Parliament emphasised that in future more time will be needed for it to carry out its functions.
On 26 May 2010, the Commission proposed simply extending the period of application of the current regulation, claiming that there was not enough time to table a new regulation.
This proposed extension did not take into account the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Parliament raised this failure and proposed amendments to the Commission's draft, with a view to ensuring that the rights and powers that Parliament had acquired through the Treaty of Lisbon would be respected.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, which approves the extension of the regulation in question and amends the elements required for respecting the new powers acquired by Parliament in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon, in particular guaranteeing new powers with regard to delegated acts.
Under the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) industrialised countries guarantee trade preferences to all developing countries on a non-reciprocal basis.
It is one of the key EU trade and development policy instruments to assist developing countries to reduce poverty by generating revenue through international trade.
The regulation currently in force and valid until 31 December 2012 does not respect the new powers granted to Parliament by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The new proposal for a regulation aims to create a system that is more sensitive to the interests of the beneficiary countries and economic operators, to develop more rules that allow for a better regulated reform process and to ensure that the regulation gives due importance to the task of democratic control asked of Parliament.
For these reasons I voted in favour of the proposal for a new regulation that aims for greater clarity and transparency in the GSP system.
in writing. - (PT) Since 1971, the European Union has been awarding preferential trade arrangements to developing countries within the framework of its Generalised System of Preferences (GSP).
The current system was instituted by Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 and applies until 31 December 2011, when it will be replaced by a new regulation, yet to be drawn up.
However, the remaining period of application of Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 is not sufficient to allow a Commission proposal to be drawn up and a new regulation to be adopted by means of the Ordinary legislative procedure, so it would appear necessary to extend this regulation's period of application until 31 December 2013, in order to ensure continuity in the functioning of the system.
in writing. - The idea of a Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) goes back to 1968, when tariffs were much higher in general and when they were still seen as the main barrier to trade from developing to industrialised countries.
The concept was initially proposed by the UNCTAD as a development tool: industrialised countries should grant non-reciprocal trade preferences to developing countries, allowing them to generate revenue not via aid, but via international preferential trade.
The European Community started to apply this scheme in 1971.
The second scheme is due to expire on 31 December 2011.
The current scheme was adopted in 2008 under the consultation procedure.
I voted in favour of the text of this resolution because I think that the European Union's Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) is one of the key instruments to make it easier for developing countries to achieve growth.
This delay will result in a legal vacuum of more than six months, causing a discontinuity in the programme that even risks putting the many results already achieved under threat.
in writing. - (LT) It is very important for the EU's Generalised System of Preferences to become more transparent.
The rapporteur accurately observed that the proposal to extend the current regulation is not ideal, but it would allow us to avoid a legal vacuum lasting more than six months.
The EU should pay more attention to the development of cooperation with neighbouring countries in the area of trade policy.
It is in the EU's interests to sign a free trade agreement with Ukraine and begin negotiations with other Eastern Partnership countries which are members of the World Trade Organisation - Georgia, Moldova and Armenia.
I am voting for this report, given that the combined air space of the US and the EU represents 60% of global air traffic, and current bilateral agreements between Member States and the US do not reflect reality.
The opening up of air space between the US and EU on a non-discriminatory basis should provide improved services for the transportation of passengers and cargo, economic benefits, and above all jobs.
I would therefore say that this is beneficial, as a convergence regulation could promote free competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies, and social and environmental criteria.
I have therefore voted in favour of the Agreement in which both parties undertake to adopt environmental and social standards that will considerably reduce noise pollution and mitigate the effects of air traffic emissions on air quality, whilst also committing to developing sustainable alternative fuels.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this Protocol to amend the EU-US air transport agreement.
The Protocol contains important elements of progress in EU-US cooperation on air transport issues.
Suspension could lead to European passengers and airlines losing the significant gains that have been enjoyed since March 2008.
The EU Member States and the US account for a share of 60% of global aviation markets.
We should therefore strive to ensure a steady increase in the quality of services in this area.
Furthermore, the Agreement will help to strengthen the protection of employee rights within the sector, step up cooperation on air travel safety and also, thanks to the compatibility requirement, strengthen cooperation on environmental matters.
in writing. - (ES) I voted in favour of this initiative because air transport markets represent 60% of world traffic.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this recommendation, as I believe that the Agreement under consideration may be an important step towards opening up the market to EU and US airlines on a non-discriminatory basis.
in writing. - (PT) Although it has not yet achieved a single transatlantic market for air transport, the amendment to the Air Transport Agreement between the United States and the European Union contains significant improvements compared to the previous version, particularly in terms of the environment and security.
in writing. - (PT) This draft legislative resolution is based on the draft decision of the Council and the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council on the conclusion of the Protocol to Amend the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part.
The ideal agreement would be one that proposed a complete opening up of the aviation market, without any restrictions on either side.
However, it is important to emphasise the need for the European Parliament and the United States Congress to maintain dialogue on issues not covered by this Agreement.
The promises of benefits for workers and passengers that always accompany these liberalisation processes are as old and trite as they are false, as demonstrated by the reality in cases where liberalisation has gone ahead, whether in this sector or in other sectors.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent was required for the conclusion of an international agreement.
Air agreements now fall within this category because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies.
The EU-US aviation markets account for about 60% of world air traffic.
Regulatory convergence could do much to promote fair competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies, social and environmental standards.
While the second-stage Agreement represents a significant step forward, it is important for it not to be regarded as the end of the process of establishing a transatlantic aviation market.
I believe that the Commission needs to look forward towards negotiating another stage of this Agreement covering issues including: further liberalisation of traffic rights; additional foreign investment opportunities; the effect of environmental measures and infrastructure constraints on the exercise of traffic rights; and better coordination of passenger rights policies in order to ensure the highest possible level of protection for passengers.
This amendment to the Agreement on air transport between the European Union and the United States represents an excellent opportunity to develop the potential of a market that accounts for 60% of world air traffic.
The European Commission has by now made significant progress in the attempt to establish an Open Aviation Area between the EU and the US, in which investments could flow freely and both EU and US airlines would be able to provide air services without any restriction.
We now recognise the need for more intense cooperation in order to face up to ever-changing challenges in the fields of security and the environment, as well as to promote further investment in order to guarantee free access to the market.
As such, following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament needs to be fully informed and consulted with regard to the work carried out by the Joint Committee, as well as all of the entities involved.
Any agreement that is to be concluded will need to be adopted by Parliament, which will therefore need to be kept up-to-date with all negotiations, and it will be important in the future for regular meetings to be held between Members of this House and members of the US Congress, in order to debate all questions relating to aviation policy between the EU and the US.
This Agreement is therefore an important step towards opening up the market to airlines from the EU and the US without any discrimination.
This opening up of the market may contribute to the improvement of services provided to passengers.
Suspension could lead to European passengers and airlines no longer being able to profit from the significant benefits which they have enjoyed since March 2008 thanks to this protocol.
The benefits and positive aspects include, in particular, agreements on working standards for airline staff, sharing good practice with regard to noise abatement, strengthening cooperation in the field of environmental protection etc.
The delegation of the Dutch Labour Party to the European Parliament recognises the ongoing need to pursue a proper debate on safety requirements (such as the use of scanners) and the impact on privacy and health of passengers of such requirements.
If there is no such Agreement, someone might trigger the suspension clause, which would deprive the EU's passengers and airlines of the significant gains that have been enjoyed since March 2008.
For a long time, the Member States have negotiated with the United States on an individual basis and concluded bilateral agreements.
in writing. - (LT) The open-skies agreement reached between the United States and the European Union is a guarantor of progress and a mirror of economic development for both regions.
Fully opening the transatlantic market would represent an important step towards improving the situation in the global aviation sector.
EU and US institutions responsible for flight security must cooperate at all levels.
We cannot allow the flying, working and rest time of flight crew members in the European Union to be subject to lower security requirements, which could endanger people's lives.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this amendment to the EU-US Air Transport Agreement.
The European Union and United States aviation markets, taken together, account for about 60% of world air traffic.
In addition, further progress on cooperation and regulatory convergence in this area could do much to promote fair competition, particularly with regard to State subsidies and social and environmental standards.
For the reasons outlined above, I am therefore voting in favour of the adoption of the Protocol to Amend the Air Transport Agreement between the EU and the US.
I therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this signing of this Protocol to Amend the Air Transport Agreement between the EU and the US, as I would like to see a continuation of negotiating efforts towards greater liberalisation of traffic rights, the strengthening of cooperation in different areas, and the abolition of regulatory restrictions in place in the US with regard to the ownership and control of US airlines by non-nationals.
in writing. - The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of international agreements.
Air transport agreements now fall within this category because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies.
As a result, this Protocol to Amend the Air Transport Agreement is subject to Parliament's consent, whereas the initial Agreement was concluded after consultation of Parliament.
The EU-US aviation markets, taken together, account for about 60% of world air traffic.
In addition, regulatory convergence could do much to promote fair competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards.
European and United States airlines, taken together, account for around 60% of world air traffic, thereby representing an unrivalled economic force in the sector.
Indeed, common standards would favour a more uniform integrated development, above all from the social and environmental point of view.
The ability to make equity investments in the respective airlines, as well as increased consultation and cooperation on security, are just some examples of this.
in writing. - (PT) The European Parliament today adopted an Protocol to Amend the Air Transport Agreement in place between the European Union and the United States, and I voted in favour of it.
The aviation markets in the EU and the US together represent around 60% of global air traffic.
Finally, it should also be emphasised that issues such as greater liberalisation of traffic rights, increased opportunities for foreign investment, and the effect of environmental measures on traffic rights will need to be taken into account during any future phase of negotiation.
Air agreements now fall within this category, because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies.
The EU-US aviation markets, taken together, account for around 60% of world air traffic.
In addition, regulatory convergence could do much to promote fair competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards.
I am voting for this report, firstly because it is a substantial improvement on the current bilateral agreements between Member States and Canada, which are quite restricted, and secondly because of the significant improvement that it offers in terms of services and air connections between the two markets, with the resulting economic, environmental, security, passenger transport, competition and legal benefits, amongst other things.
The European Union and Canada have agreed to cooperate on air transport with the aim of mitigating the impact of aviation on climate change.
All European Union airlines will be able to operate weekly flights between Canada and the EU.
This Agreement will significantly improve the connections between the markets of both countries and the links between people, while creating new opportunities for the airline sector through a gradual liberalisation of foreign ownership rules.
I voted for this report as it contains specific provisions for improving consumer interests.
Until now, air transport between EU Member States and Canada has been regulated solely by bilateral agreements.
I have therefore voted in favour of this Agreement, which provides for the phased implementation of traffic rights, investment opportunities and cooperation in a number of areas (not least air safety through the creation of a shared security system, but also social matters, consumer interests and environmental issues).
The Agreement includes a gradual phasing-in of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as far reaching cooperation on a number of issues including safety, security, social matters, consumer interests, environment, air traffic management, state aids and competition.
Airlines will be free to enter into commercial arrangements such as code-share agreements, which are important for airlines serving a large number of destinations, and to establish their tariffs in line with the countries' competition law.
In 2007, the Council granted the Commission a mandate to negotiate a global aviation agreement.
in writing. - (BG) It is well known that prior to this Agreement, aviation was the subject of bilateral agreements with 19 of the EU Member States.
I supported this proposal because it will facilitate air transport, but mainly because it includes a gradual phasing-in of air traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as far-reaching cooperation on a number of issues including safety, security, social matters, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aids and competition.
in writing. - (CS) An aviation agreement between the EU and Canada would, under normal circumstances, have my full support, as I am wholly in favour in removing barriers to free movement, both within the EU and between the EU and third countries.
It is astonishing that Canada, on the one hand, allows EU airlines to operate direct flights to Canada from anywhere in the EU, and, on the other hand, prevents the citizens of one Member State from travelling freely to Canada.
This Agreement, which will enable European airlines to establish direct flights to Canada from any point in Europe, as well as to explore code sharing for these routes, can be described as the most ambitious air transport agreement concluded by the European Union.
It seeks to eliminate provisions included in previous bilateral agreements that violated Union Law, and which threatened equality of treatment between companies owned by nationals of different Member States.
Economic and political relations between the European Union and Canada date back a long time, and have given rise to bilateral agreements in this area.
The similarities between the objectives in this case and the Agreement with the US are clear: the creation of a single market for air transport between the EU and Canada, a market that, in 2007, represented a volume of 9 million passengers.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because the Agreement includes a gradual phasing-in of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as far reaching cooperation on a number of issues including safety, security, social matters, consumer interests, environment, air traffic management, state aids and competition.
I therefore believe that Parliament should consent to the EU-Canada Air Transport Agreement.
All of these air agreements are beneficial and necessary for the European Union, our airlines and our citizens.
in writing. - I welcome this Agreement, which can fairly be described as the most ambitious air transport agreement between the EU and a major world partner.
It will significantly improve both the connections between respective markets and people-to-people links, as well as creating new opportunities for the airline sector through a gradual liberalisation of foreign ownership rules.
In particular, it is more ambitious and specific than the EU-US Agreement with regard to traffic rights, ownership and control, even following the provisional application of the amending Protocol ('second stage').
The Agreement could generate consumer benefits of at least EUR 72 million through lower fares and would also create new jobs.
Although the European Union and Canada have long-standing economic and political ties, prior to the current Agreement, aviation was the subject of bilateral agreements with a number of the Member States.
We can therefore surely say that the Agreement adopted today is truly ambitious.
It will bring about a decisive improvement in connections between the respective markets and will create new opportunities for the sector.
However, we do recommend increased consultation and cooperation on the delicate issue of security and we call on the Commission to keep Parliament informed of all developments and to watch over the work of the new Joint Committee.
Any Agreement that is to be concluded will need to be adopted by Parliament, which will therefore need to be kept up-to-date with all negotiations.
This Agreement is therefore an important step towards opening up the market to airlines from the EU and Canada without any discrimination.
This opening up of the market may contribute to the improvement of services provided to passengers.
in writing. - I fully agree with Silvia-Adriana Ţicău: the Agreement is the most ambitious air transport agreement between the EU and a major world partner.
It will significantly improve both connections between the respective markets and people-to-people links, and will create new opportunities for the airline sector through a gradual liberalisation of foreign ownership rules.
I voted in favour of this agreement on air transport between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part.
This is a very ambitious Agreement, which provides for the gradual establishment of traffic rights and investment possibilities, together with full cooperation in several areas, including questions of security, social questions, the defence of consumer interests, the environment, the management of air traffic, state aid and competition.
The EU-Canada Air Transport Agreement is one of the most ambitious air transport agreements between the EU and a major world partner.
It includes a gradual phasing-in of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as far-reaching cooperation on issues such as: safety, security, social matters, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state subsidies and competition.
The Agreement could generate consumer benefits of at least EUR 72 million through lower fares and would also create new jobs.
in writing. - The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent was required for the conclusion of an international agreement.
Air agreements now fall within this category because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies.
Many of these agreements were restrictive and did not offer full access to the respective markets.
In November 2002, the European Court of Justice ruled that certain provisions in these bilateral agreements were incompatible with Community law.
The Council therefore gave the Commission a mandate, in October 2007, to negotiate a comprehensive aviation agreement in place of the existing bilateral agreements.
The EU-Canada Air Transport Agreement was initialled on 30 November 2008, endorsed by the EU-Canada summit on 6 May 2009 and signed on 17-18 December 2009.
Although the European Union and Canada have long-standing economic and political ties, until today the only existing Agreement on aviation between the EU and Canada was borne out of a combination of bilateral agreements between countries.
This protocol includes the introduction of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as cooperation on a number of issues, particularly increased guarantees on safety and security.
I am in favour of the text of this Agreement because it introduces measures designed to gradually open up the Canadian air market, allowing greater investment freedoms for both parties.
This Agreement, which can be described as the most ambitious air transport agreement concluded by the European Union, will enable European airlines to operate direct flights to Canada from any European airport, while also introducing commercial mechanisms such as code sharing.
The Agreement provides for the gradual establishment of traffic rights and investment possibilities, together with full cooperation in several areas, including questions of security, social questions, the defence of consumer interests, the environment, the management of air traffic, state aids and competition.
In the document adopted today in the sitting, the Committee on Transport and Tourism, of which I am a substitute member, calls upon the European Commission to ensure that Parliament be informed and consulted systematically with regard to the activities of the Joint Committee established, so that it can monitor the various stages of the opening up of the market.
I voted in favour of the recommendation, and the Agreement in question should serve as an example for other negotiations currently under way.
in writing. - (DE) This Agreement serves as a model for current and future negotiations with other States.
According to predictions, the potential savings as a result of cheaper flight prices amount to EUR 72 million, which would benefit consumers directly.
The Aagreement will have further indirect benefits for our citizens as a result of the creation of new jobs.
I am voting for this report because the continuation of the existing bilateral air agreements with Vietnam would not be in line with European law, and because of the possible opportunities that this greater openness could bring about.
Until now, bilateral agreements on air transport concluded between EU Member States and third countries have created the potential for discrimination against certain European Union carriers.
The new Agreement therefore includes an EU designation clause that encompasses all European Union carriers and will replace the traditional designation clauses which referred to air carriers from individual Member States.
I have therefore voted in favour of the Agreement, which will allow all European Union air carriers to operate flights between any Member State and Vietnam.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with the conclusion of this Agreement.
This Agreement also ensures that safety provisions in bilateral agreements are applicable to situations when regulatory control over an air carrier is exercised by a Member State other than the Member State that designated that air carrier.
It has therefore been necessary to amend three articles in order to prevent discrimination between airlines and outlaw potentially anti-competitive activities, as well as to ensure that safety clauses apply where a Member State controls transport designated by another Member State.
in writing. - (BG) I wish to explain my vote on the Aair Transport Agreement between the European Union and Vietnam.
I voted in favour of this Agreement because I learnt that the Agreement concluded by the Commission replaces, for the better, certain provisions in the existing 17 bilateral air services agreements concluded between EU Member States and Vietnam.
The amendments in question provide for granting all European airlines access to routes between the European Union and Vietnam, and prohibit anti-competitive practices.
These amendments ensure compliance with the principle of freedom of establishment, and seek to ensure identical treatment within a host Member State to that availed to nationals of that Member State.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome the adoption of this draft Council decision seeking the conclusion of an agreement between the European Union on the one hand, and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the other, relating to certain aspects of air services.
International relationships in the area of aviation between Member States and third countries used to be regulated through the establishment of bilateral agreements.
However, a 2002 judgement by the Court of Justice of the European Union deemed this situation to be illegal, as it contravened Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
This Agreement, like the others, serves the objectives of liberalisation within the air services sector, with the justification, as in other cases, that the 2002 judgement of the EU Court of Justice deems existing bilateral agreements to contravene Union law.
As in other regrettable situations, the interpretation of Union law once more seems to give priority to freedom of competition over all other social and economic precepts.
We are expressing here the same reservations that we have about other agreements, their scope and the possible consequences that they may have.
We are faced with an agreement that serves the objectives of liberalisation within the air services sector, with the justification, as in other cases, that the 2002 ruling of the EU Court of Justice deems existing bilateral agreements contravene Union law.
Once again, as in other regrettable situations, the interpretation of Union law seems to give priority to freedom of competition over all other social and economic precepts, even where there are bilateral agreements between Member States.
We are therefore expressing the same reservations that we have about other agreements, their scope and their possible consequences.
in writing. - (IT) The new competences acquired by the European Union also include air transport agreements.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this report, because international aviation relations between Member States and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements.
All of these air agreements are beneficial and necessary for the European Union, our airlines and our citizens.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report.
International aviation relations between Member States and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements.
They allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a Member State but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that Member State or its nationals.
This has been found to constitute discrimination against EU carriers established in the territory of a Member State but owned and controlled by nationals of other Member States.
This is contrary to Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which guarantees nationals of Member States who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host Member State as that accorded to nationals of that Member State.
There are also further issues, such as competition, where compliance with EU law should be ensured through amending or complementing existing provisions in bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries.
The bilateral agreements on international air transport entered into by the European Union with third countries now require a radical overhaul.
We therefore welcome the conclusion of this agreement tabled by the Commission, which aims to give all European Union air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes to and from Vietnam, while avoiding any anti-competitive practice.
The clauses on possible fuel tax for air services ought to be removed and it would be desirable for the traditional designation clauses referring to air carriers of third countries to be replaced by a European Union designation clause referring to EU air carriers.
Lastly, it would be worth establishing increasingly stringent safety measures, particularly in situations where regulatory control over an air carrier is exercised by a Member State other than that which designated it.
The EU-Vietnam Agreement is very important for the future of relations between both sides.
As such, following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament needs to be fully informed and consulted with regard to the work carried out by the Joint Committee, as well as all of the entities involved.
Any agreement that is to be concluded will need to be adopted by Parliament, which will therefore need to be kept uptodate with all negotiations.
This Agreement is therefore an important step towards opening up the market to airlines from the EU and Vietnam without any discrimination.
This opening up of the market may contribute to the improvement of services provided to passengers.
I voted in favour of the agreement precisely in order to guarantee that all European air carriers can use Vietnamese air routes equally, without running the risk of being banned.
If, in fact, for various reasons we cannot have the same standards that we have within the Union, then it is appropriate that some core points and rules are established.
Following the 2002 judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union ruling that the traditional designation clauses included within bilateral Air Services Agreements signed by Member States contravened Union law, it became necessary to negotiate an agreement that sought to replace certain provisions within the current 17 bilateral air services agreements between Member States and Vietnam.
The clause in question contravened Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which guarantees nationals of Member States exercising their freedom of establishment the same treatment within a host Member State as that given to nationals of that Member State.
Thus, in order to avoid discrimination between EU air carriers, the traditional designation clauses relating to air carriers of a Member State that is a party to a bilateral Agreement are being replaced by an EU designation clause, applicable to all EU carriers.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the conclusion of the Agreement on Air Transport between the EU and Vietnam, which is aimed at replacing certain provisions of the 17 existing bilateral air services agreements signed by that country and the Member States, guaranteeing EU air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the European Union and Vietnam, in accordance with what was established by the Court of Justice in 2002, along with compliance with Community law on competition.
in writing. - International aviation relations between Member States and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements.
They allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a Member State but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that Member State or its nationals.
There are also further issues, such as competition, where compliance with EU law should be ensured through amending or complementing existing provisions in bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries.
The constant economic growth of this country, which, thanks to the flexibility of its entrepreneurial fabric, has managed to deal with the international crisis better than many, makes it a favoured partner for the EU and today's vote cannot but support this important line of development.
in writing. - (DE) The Agreement brought the designation clauses of the previous bilateral air services agreements into line with EU law in accordance with the ruling of the European Court of Justice in 2002.
I have voted in favour of the conclusion of the Agreement.
I am voting in favour of this report because it is necessary to conclude negotiations on trade with this region, and I believe that there are positive developments by virtue of the fact that this document includes sectors like energy, industry and raw materials, and, above all, research, innovation and education.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report and would like to urge EU and GCC leaders to intensify cooperation, especially in the area of trade, since negotiations on a free-trade agreement between the EU and the GCC were opened 20 years ago and still have not been concluded.
The EEAS should pay more attention to this important region and new EU diplomatic missions should be opened in the GCC member states.
The European Union and Gulf Cooperation Council have been negotiating a free trade agreement for some 20 years.
I think that we need continuous dialogue between the European Union and Gulf Cooperation Council in order to make progress in promoting human rights and freedoms, as well as those of minorities, and in the battle against every form of discrimination, including discrimination based on gender or religion.
This is why I voted in favour of the own-initiative report which calls on the European Parliament to devise a more ambitious policy with regard to the Gulf Cooperation Council.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report.
The European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have been negotiating a free trade agreement for some 20 years.
These are the longest-running and hitherto non-concluded trade negotiations that the EU has undertaken.
The potential for cooperation between the EU and the Gulf region applies not only to the realm of trade, but to other shared interests in international security, in combating terrorism, in diplomatic mediation in Middle Eastern trouble spots, in regional crisis management and in intercultural dialogue and global economic governance.
in writing. - (BG) Through this own-initiative report the European Parliament aims to call for a more ambitious EU policy to be devised in relation to the Gulf Cooperation Council and its member states.
I voted for this report because I think that this is the direction we should choose.
The integration process initiated 30 years ago by the six member states of this Council is still so far the only experiment of its kind in the Arab world.
The Gulf region's geopolitical climate is different now, entailing global and regional implications.
We have to deal with the liberalisation and diversification of the economies in these states.
We have shared interests in the areas of international security, the fight against terrorism, diplomatic mediation in the tension zones in the Middle East, regional crisis management, intercultural dialogue and global economic governance.
I voted in favour of this report on trade, economic and financial relations between the EU and the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), namely Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar and Oman.
It is also important to achieve a free trade agreement.
I believe that it is in the interests of the EU and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) to forge closer relations at all levels, be they political, cultural, commercial or financial.
On the matter of this report, for which I was the rapporteur for the Committee on International Trade, I would like to highlight three proposals which I have advocated from the beginning and which have been warmly welcomed by the other members: 1) an increase in the diplomatic presence in the region by setting up an EU delegation in each of the GCC member states, through the European External Action Service (EEAS); 2) the holding of regular Heads of State or Government summits between the EU and the GCC; and, finally, 3) an invitation for the High Representative/Vice-President and the Commissioner for Trade to consider alternative approaches to future trade relations with the GCC countries, in the form of bilateral agreements between the EU and the Gulf States that already feel prepared to enter into further commitments with the EU.
Although the latter proposal represents a new EU approach to relations with third countries, I believe that neither the EU nor every one of the GCC countries willing to forge closer relations in all areas can remain hostage to other GCC countries that do not yet feel comfortable to do so.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report because it argues that the potential for cooperation between the EU and the Gulf region goes beyond the merely commercial sphere.
Good relations between these regional blocs can make an important contribution towards safeguarding common interests such as international security, the fight against terrorism, and global economic governance.
The recent turmoil and social, political and military unrest in various Muslim-majority countries add to the need for the EU to develop a strategy for the Gulf region and to establish contacts and lasting partnerships with the leading multilateral institution in the region, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).
There are obvious security and economic-financial issues that connect both parties, so the EU should increase its efforts and channel resources in order to better raise awareness and seek to complete the draft trade agreement which, I believe, may not only increase trade but also help to bring their respective populations into greater contact.
I hope that the reforms that have been undertaken by some of these countries will be consolidated and the Europe can contribute to this process in a positive way.
in writing. - (PT) This motion for a Parliament resolution deals with relations between the EU and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), with a view to establishing a strategic partnership involving their member states.
These countries represent an excellent opportunity for trade not only because they are producers of oil, of which reserves are becoming exhausted, but mainly because they are beginning to invest in alternative energies, and Europe is also known for its expertise in this field.
There is no shortage of causes for concern and areas of instability which are making the geopolitical regional context extremely complex: the situation in Palestine, the war in Iraq, the situation in Iran, the recent popular uprisings in several countries, such as Yemen, and the situation in Darfur.
In this context, this report takes as its background the negotiations that took place 20 years ago to reach a free trade agreement between the EU and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), making these the oldest trade negotiations initiated by the EU, but which have not been concluded to this day.
However, some of the oral amendments tabled during the vote have made it even more inacceptable, particularly the reference to the position of the UN Security Council on the establishment of an air exclusion zone in Libya, which, as we are aware, is masking the war which is being waged against this country.
We are aware that the geopolitical situation of the Gulf region is very complex and includes sensitive and serious issues concerning security and peace.
This was the context in which the negotiations took place 20 years ago to reach a free trade agreement between the EU and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), which were the longest-running non-concluded trade negotiations that the EU has undertaken.
The fact is that the EU has been interfering and using double standards in their relations with states in this region, which is hindering the negotiations and even peace processes relating to the sovereign rights of the peoples of the region.
Moreover, the resolution adopted by Parliament includes new proposals that do not help the peace process in the region... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (LT) By voting in favour of this report, I support the demonstrations for democracy and human rights in Bahrain and condemn the government's violent response.
in writing. - I voted for the report on the EU relations with the Gulf Cooperation Council.
The European Union wants to enter into closer cooperation with the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) - an organisation made up of the six richest nations in the region - with the conclusion of a free trade agreement forming a key component of that process.
I voted in favour of this report, which prepares the ground for future cooperation between the Union and the GCC.
Covering all of the issues relevant to such a partnership, such as the rights of minorities, women's rights, freedom of conscience and expression, but also support for the Israeli-Palestinian peace process and areas for strategic partnership such as research, education and fossil and renewable fuels, the motion proposed by my colleague, Mr Baudis, has achieved a fairly broad consensus among the political groups.
The report also takes account of recent changes in the political arena in Bahrain.
A strategic partnership in many areas, which is highlighted at many points in the report, should make it possible to avoid crises in relations between the EU and the region, and to increase Europe's energy security.
The Persian Gulf countries are extremely important players in the peace process.
I would therefore like to say how pleased I am that the report was adopted, and I hope that cooperation between the European Union and the Persian Gulf countries will be even more productive in many areas.
in writing. - I voted for this report, and particularly welcome the oral amendment adding a new paragraph 7a, which 'calls on all member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council to recognise a continuing popular movement for democratic reform within the wider region and calls for the full engagement with emerging civil society groups to promote a process of genuine peaceful democratic transition, within their own countries, with partners in the region and with the full support of the European Union'.
Over the 20 years of trade negotiations between the European Union and the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) the context of the negotiations has changed profoundly and these relations must be able to reach a turning-point.
The conclusion of a free trade agreement remains both a political and a commercial priority.
These countries should be able to continue down the path of cooperation and multilateralism.
It would therefore be a good idea for Parliament to encourage a more ambitious EU policy with regard to the GCC.
in writing. - The EU and the Gulf Cooperation Council have been negotiating a free-trade agreement (FTA) for some 20 years: the longest-running non-concluded trade negotiations that the EU has undertaken.
I abstained from voting because the agreement should be drawn up in the context of a political response to the situation in the region.
There should be a separate approach to every single country.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this resolution on European Union relations with the Gulf Cooperation Council, because the Gulf region is seen today in terms of the emergence of a new global economic hub, whose geopolitical environment makes the Gulf a focus of security challenges that have global and regional implications.
We must do our utmost to ensure that negotiations between these two regions are finally brought to a close and a free trade agreement is concluded which would guarantee new opportunities for technical cooperation and assistance.
I also spoke in favour of speeding up negotiations on a free trade agreement between the EU and the countries of the Gulf.
There is clear potential for cooperation between these two regions not just on the economy, but also on issues of international security, combating terrorism, diplomatic mediation in Middle Eastern conflicts, intercultural dialogue and global economic governance.
I think that an agreement that facilitates trade and therefore strengthens all the socio-political ties that reintegrate the region into the global context is fundamental for its future stability following the wars of past few years and recent events, as well as in commercial terms.
I therefore voted in favour of the report, hoping furthermore for the relationships to be intensified, as this would be of mutual benefit, including in view of a new global governance.
I voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which constitutes an appeal by Parliament for the formulation of a more ambitious policy on a strategic partnership between the EU and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and its member states.
The EU and the GCC have been trying to negotiate a free trade agreement for about 20 years.
These are among the longest-running non-concluded trade negotiations that the EU has undertaken.
However, in the course of 20 years, the context of these negotiations has changed profoundly.
In fact, the potential for cooperation between these two regions goes beyond the merely commercial sphere.
The two blocs share common interests such as international security, the fight against terrorism, diplomatic mediation in areas of tension in the Middle East, regional crisis management, intercultural dialogue and global economic governance.
I voted in favour of this own-initiative report as I believe that Parliament's appeal for the formulation of a more ambitious EU policy in relation to the GCC and its member states is very timely.
I hope that the political will that is needed on this matter is felt at the highest level.
in writing. - (IT) The free trade agreement between the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) has been under discussion for around 20 years.
Over this period, the financial and geopolitical circumstances of the GCC have changed drastically: security challenges have emerged (such as, Iraq, Iran, Yemen, Islamic terrorism, and piracy) and new commercial players have appeared in the area.
At the same time, the GCC member states have become the economic powerhouse of the whole Middle East-North Africa region and are now the main investors in the EU's southern Mediterranean neighbourhood area.
The two regions also have common interests on security, combating terrorism, managing the regional crisis and global economic governance.
The EU has certain advantages to draw on in comparison with the new players operating in the Gulf, above all in terms of education, scientific research, energy and technology.
The Gulf region is greatly important to the EU, and it is therefore vital to develop a strategy that is aimed at strengthening political, financial, economic, social and cultural ties with the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).
The potential of this cooperation also extends to other areas, such as education, energy and scientific research.
I therefore support the appeal made in this House today for the formulation of a more ambitious EU policy in relation to the GCC and its member states, and I hope that the strengthening of dialogue and cooperation between the EU and the GCC will help to promote and consolidate progress with regard to respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights.
in writing. - Among the reasons to vote in favour of this text, one should mention the adoption of Amendment 7a (new) that states the following: 'Calls on all member states in the Gulf Cooperation Council to recognise a continuing popular movement for democratic reform within the wider region, and calls for the full engagement with emerging civil society groups to promote a process of genuine peaceful democratic transition, within their own countries, with partners in the region and with the full support of the EU.
The free trade agreement between the European Union and the Gulf region is a priority for both parties' interests and will emphasise the importance of their mutual recognition.
The presence of the European Union in the region strengthens trade policy, contributing to the development of targeted and effective information on the EU in the Gulf countries.
The social and political developments that have taken place in recent years in most Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) member states encourage the promotion of human rights and the fight against all forms of discrimination, including those based on gender, sexual orientation or religion.
in writing. - The UK Conservative delegation and the ECR Group voted in favour of the Baudis Report on EU-GCC relations, including the extensive oral amendments submitted by the rapporteur today in plenary, as it is important to condemn any disproportionate use of force in Bahrain by the authorities, in particular allegations of the shooting of unarmed peaceful protestors.
We accept that under the GCC rules the government of Bahrain is entitled to call in Saudi and Kuwaiti assistance in enforcing law and order, but again foreign forces in Bahrain should respect fundamental human rights, including the right to peaceful demonstration.
Against the backdrop of extreme economic, social and geopolitical tensions, it was essential that this House reiterate its willingness to review our cooperation agreements in light of the events in the Arab world.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report on European Union relations with the Gulf Cooperation Council.
As thoroughly explained in the report, due to the many advantages for both contractual parties and after 20 years of negotiations, it is time that we made a targeted effort to push for the conclusion of a free trade agreement.
Above all, however, I support the main points of focus for the negotiations stated in the report, which take account of developments in the area of climate change and the obligation in terms of human rights.
I am in favour of this appointment because all the legal procedures have been carried out, including a rigorous Curriculum Vitae assessment.
in writing. - (PT) I support the favourable result of the voting by the Council with regard to the appointment of Mr Praet as an Executive Board Member of the European Central Bank, on the basis of a positive assessment of his Curriculum Vitae and the written responses that he provided to the questionnaire given out to candidates for the post in question.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because by letter of 18 February 2011 the European Council consulted the European Parliament on the appointment of Peter Praet as a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank for a term of office of eight years with effect from 1 June 2011.
A favourable opinion was delivered to the European Council on the Council recommendation to appoint Peter Praet as a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
in writing. - I voted for this report which, on the basis of a recommendation from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, delivers a favourable opinion to the European Council on the Council recommendation to appoint Peter Praet as a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
Indeed, beginning with the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the role played by the ECB - independently and separately from national governments - ensured that the extremely serious consequences of the crisis were not devastating.
The ECB is and remains a bulwark in defence of the monetary union and the euro.
I am in favour of this appointment because all the legal procedures have been carried out, including a rigorous Curriculum Vitae assessment.
The purpose of the European Banking Authority, which came into being on 1 January 2011 under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010, is to guarantee the stability of the financial system, transparency of financial products and markets, and to provide protection for savers and investors.
The European Banking Authority has nominated Adam Farkas, an economist from the Hungarian National Bank, to become its Executive Director.
The European Parliament has to approve the selection in order for it to be valid.
That is why the role reserved for this new European Banking Authority is so crucial for the future.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because at its meeting of 17 March 2011, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs heard the candidate selected by the Board of Supervisors of the European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), and it was decided that Adam Farkas fulfils the criteria set out in Article 51(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010), and the appointment of Adam Farkas as Executive Director of the European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority) was also approved.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which approves the appointment of Adam Farkas as Executive Director of the European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority).
The recent financial crisis has highlighted major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole.
Supervision models had a national perspective and did not adapt to the globalisation that has occurred within the financial system, where various financial groups conduct their operations across borders, with the systemic risks that this entails.
in writing. - (IT) As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (ECON), I carefully followed the entire process leading to the creation of the European Banking Authority.
I sincerely hope that the Authority is provided with the human and economic resources it needs so as to ensure that its supervisory role is implemented seriously and precisely.
During the hearing held in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the new executive director convinced me and my colleagues of his competence and professionalism, as today's vote shows.
I am in favour of this appointment because all the legal procedures have been carried out, including a rigorous Curriculum Vitae assessment.
The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), which was created on 1 January 2011 under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010, is tasked with promoting supervisory convergence and advising the European Union institutions on matters pertaining to the regulation and supervision of insurance, reinsurance and occupational pension schemes.
The European Parliament has to approve the selection in order for it to be valid.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because at its meeting of 17 March 2011, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs heard the candidate selected by the Board of Supervisors of the European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority), and it was decided that Carlos Montalvo fulfils the criteria set out in Article 51(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010), and the appointment of Carlos Montalvo as Executive Director of the European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) was approved.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which approves the appointment of Carlos Montalvo as Executive Director of the European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority).
in writing. - (PT) The recent financial crisis has highlighted major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole.
Additionally, I do not think that the fact that the top two positions at the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) are being filled by people that had the same role in the preceding organisation will be a problem.
I am in favour of this appointment because all the legal procedures have been carried out, including a rigorous Curriculum Vitae assessment.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), established on 1 January 2011 by the 24 November 2010 regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, is designed to help maintain the stability of the financial system of the European Union by safeguarding the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, and by strengthening investor protection.
It is in this context that the European Securities and Markets Authority has been created, which, while not claiming to replace national supervisory agencies, will have an important part to play in the new European supervisory framework.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because at its meeting of 17 March 2011, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs heard the candidate selected by the Board of Supervisors of the European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), and it was decided that Verena Ross fulfils the criteria set out in Article 51(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010), and the appointment of Verena Ross as Executive Director of the European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority) was also approved.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which approves the appointment of Verena Ross as Executive Director of the European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority).
The recent financial crisis has highlighted major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole.
Supervision models had a national perspective and did not adapt to the globalisation that has occurred within the financial system, where various financial groups conduct their operations across borders, with the systemic risks that this entails.
I am therefore voting in favour of the choice of Mrs Ross as Executive Director of the European Securities and Markets Authority, and wish her a term of high quality in all respects.
I voted in favour of the appointment of Mrs Ross as Executive Director for a number of reasons.
For this reason, it is important for the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to be capable of starting work as soon as possible in order to begin carrying out the mandate granted to it by Parliament last year.
Under this motion for a resolution, Parliament has approved the appointment of Mrs Ross to the post of Executive Director of the European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority).
I would like to wish her every success in performing the duties which have been entrusted to her.
However, it is important to maintain the focus on the connection with the Europe 2020 objectives; on an approach based on 'sustainability and responsibility', not simply 'austerity', as the Council is suggesting, and on the new needs arising from the Treaty of Lisbon, without putting existing, successful programmes at risk.
Above all, the EU 2012 budget should promote growth and high-quality employment, and help to implement the Europe 2020 Strategy.
in writing. - I voted against the Balzani report on General guidelines for the preparation of 2012 budget because it believes that the Europe 2020 Strategy will pull Europe out of the economic downturn, when what the nations of Europe really need is to be freed from the dead hand of EU overregulation and overtaxation.
This 2020 Strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies.
The European budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of Europe cannot afford.
Calling for a small increase or a freeze is derisory - that is why I voted against a freeze - when what is really needed is a sharp cut in the budget to give the taxpayer a break.
In the current financial, economic and social crisis, the European institutions are duty-bound to follow the example of Member States in adopting austerity measures.
That is why I voted in favour of this report which provides for a strict 2012 budget for the European Parliament.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report.
The priority objectives set in the Europe 2020 Strategy (promoting employment, improving public spending on innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion) should help Europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
We must endow the EU with the necessary financial means to be able to respond adequately to growing global challenges and to defend and promote its common interests and ensure that the economies of the Member States enjoy a speedy recovery.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for Francesca Balzani's report because, in line with this document, I think that the European Union's 2012 budget must be drawn up with the aim of pursuing the Europe 2020 Strategy's targets.
These areas provide the basis for the EU's progress and competitiveness and must be developed from the perspective of creating jobs and increasing territorial and social cohesion.
I want to stress that we must not reduce the funding in these areas and it is vital for us to monitor constantly that the available resources are being managed with the utmost efficiency.
The first reason is the call for the introduction of a type of EU tax.
The second reason concerns the economic crisis and the painful interventions being undertaken by Member States.
These measures provide a logical and persuasive step towards a more realistic budget in difficult economic times.
I would like to emphasise how important this report is as the European Union's 2012 budget will help revitalise the European economy.
At the same time, next year's EU budget must be the main instrument to bring about the European economy's recovery, with great importance being attached to employment, economic governance and growth.
I think that the 2012 budget must help implement the EU 2020 Strategy's five objectives: employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, education and social integration.
The EU budget is a budget for investment and 2012 is the sixth year in the current 'financial outlook' (2007-2013), with projects rolling out at a regular rate, which results in an increase in payment levels as the work is carried out.
I voted in favour of the general guidelines for preparing the 2012 budget.
Employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, and training and social inclusion are the five objectives that should guide the drafting of the EU 2012 budget.
in writing. - I voted against the Balzani report on General guidelines for the preparation of 2012 budget because it believes that the Europe 2020 Strategy will pull Europe out of the economic downturn, when what the nations of Europe really need is to be freed from the dead hand of EU overregulation and overtaxation.
This 2020 Strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies.
The European budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of Europe cannot afford.
This 2020 Strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies.
The European budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of Europe cannot afford.
Calling for a small increase or a freeze is derisory - that is why I voted against a freeze - when what is really needed is a sharp cut in the budget to give the taxpayer a break.
in writing. - (SV) We share the committee's view that the difficult economic situation across the Union makes it more important than ever to ensure proper implementation of the EU budget, quality of spending and optimal use of existing Community financing.
However, as this amendment was not voted through and, moreover, the adopted text contains the statement that lowering the level of the EU budget could 'harm European solidarity', we have chosen to abstain in the final vote.
I voted in favour of the report on the drafting of the 2012 budget as I believe that, given the difficult economic situation throughout the EU, it has never been so important to ensure the proper performance and quality of the budget expenditure and optimal use of existing EU funding.
in writing. - I voted against the Balzani report on General guidelines for the preparation of 2012 budget because it believes that the Europe 2020 Strategy will pull Europe out of the economic downturn, when what the nations of Europe really need is to be freed from the dead hand of EU overregulation and overtaxation.
This 2020 Strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies.
The European budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of Europe cannot afford.
Calling for a small increase or a freeze is derisory when what is really needed is a sharp cut in the budget to give the taxpayer a break.
This report is groundbreaking, given its imminently political content: it seeks to highlight and step up the important discussions that are taking place in the European institutions and the Member States on all items in the economic governance package.
It is also aimed at drawing attention to the impact and importance that the 2012 budget may have in meeting the objectives of the EU 2020 Strategy for growth and sustainable job creation across the EU.
Parliament is sending an important political message to the European institutions and the Member States about its firm commitment to strengthening economic governance and fulfilling the objectives set out for growth and employment.
in writing. - (PT) I agree with the EU 2020 Strategy as it advocates stronger economic governance and the provision of the funds needed to implement its seven key actions.
The EU 2020 objectives will only be achieved if there is strong governance and European coordination, and if the Member States make the investment needed to carry out their actions.
However, this strategy can only be fully achieved if there is a new multiannual financial framework.
This report neglects to mention the importance of cohesion policy even once.
However, I hope that the 2012 budget will contribute to sustainable growth in the EU, enhance competitiveness and promote employment.
We disagree with a budget that focuses on supporting the reconstruction of monopolies and the growing militarisation of the EU, on the liberalisation in numerous sectors of economic activity and the lack of job security, as advocated by the EU 2020 Strategy.
Since the beginning of the year, the Committee on Budgets has been drafting the European Parliament's priorities for the 2012 EU budget.
It would appear that this year's conciliation between Parliament and the Council will be even more challenging than was the case in 2010.
The Council, which is opposed to any increase in the EU budget, has already announced its own savings plan, which is rather convenient, since it concerns budget lines which have not been fully exploited to date.
At the same time, Parliament is in favour of an increase in the 2012 budget, but only in line with the Eurostat inflation rate.
Firstly, implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy, including the twin goals of increasing education and employment levels.
Without adequate funding, these goals will remain defunct, and Europe 2020 will follow in the footsteps of the renowned and ineffective Lisbon Strategy.
Here we are at the start of a difficult negotiation between Member States on the 2012 budget while, in the background, the debate is already underway on the post-2013 financial perspectives.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because under the auspices of enhanced European economic governance, the European Semester mechanism and Europe 2020 Objectives, the 2012 budget must boost growth and employment.
The Europe 2020 Strategy should help Europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on the five EU headline targets, namely promoting employment, improving the conditions for - and public spending on - innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty.
The difficult economic situation across the Union makes it more important than ever to ensure proper implementation of the EU budget, quality of spending and optimal use of existing Community financing.
The EU budget has an instrumental role to play in helping the EU to exit the current economic and financial crisis through its capacity as a catalyst to boost investment, growth and jobs in Europe.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which is of the opinion that the EU budget brings added value to national public expenditure when initiating, supporting and complementing investments in those policy areas which are at the core of Europe 2020.
The European Parliament believes, moreover, that the EU budget has an instrumental role to play in helping the EU to exit the current economic and financial crisis through its capacity as a catalyst to boost investment, growth and jobs in Europe; takes the view that the EU budget could at least mitigate the effects of current restrictive national budgetary policies while supporting the efforts of national governments; stresses also that, given its redistributive nature, lowering the level of the EU budget may harm European solidarity and have an adverse impact on the pace of economic development in many Member States; believes that a purely 'net contributor'/'net beneficiary' approach does not take due account of spill-over effects between EU countries and therefore undermines common EU policy goals.
In order to tackle the current economic and financial crisis it is essential to promote inclusive, sustainable European growth, aligning the European Union's budget with its main objectives.
The European Semester, a new mechanism to strengthen European economic governance, should provide the chance to determine the best way to achieve these goals.
The European budget represents real added value, thanks to its ability to function as a catalyst to boost investment, growth and employment.
We call on the Commission to develop ambitious proposals for the provision of new own resources, based on a comprehensive impact assessment, in order to bolster competitiveness and economic growth.
The 2020 Strategy is based on important priorities - namely research, innovation, development and growth - that were not initially contained in the report by Mrs Balzani, but which have been strongly emphasised by the PPE Group, as well as achieving the employment objectives initially set out.
The Union's priorities in the budget require adequate financing and it is also important to ensure flexibility between the expenditure headings in order to more effectively counter the problems linked to the economic crisis, as well as to propose a budgetary framework that includes own resources.
The Community budget for 2012 is the main tool for the EU to recover from the crisis and come out of it stronger, focusing on employment, economic governance and growth.
Employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, training, and social inclusion are the five objectives which should form the focus for the drafting of the EU 2012 budget.
Based on these five objectives, the Europe 2020 Strategy should help Europe to recover from the crisis and emerge from it stronger, through 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
We must therefore oppose any attempt to limit the budget allocations for achieving the high-ranking objectives and flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
in writing. - The key requirements for the draft resolution on the EU general budget for 2012 are ensuring sufficient resources for the implementation of the EU-2020 Strategy and enhanced cooperation between European and national budgets.
The 2012 EU budget should boost growth and high-quality employment, and start implementing the EU 2020 objectives.
The motto for deciding on the EU 2012 budget should therefore be 'sustainability and responsibility' rather than 'austerity'.
Although I voted 'for', I would like to stress that the budget should be distributed so that financial resources are used for the benefit of citizens in the Member States and not for the benefit of financial and political groups, as it is currently the case in Latvia, where officials distribute EU funds among their acquaintances and friends!
in writing. - (DE) The report on the 2012 budget refers to the Europe 2020 Strategy, which once again contains lofty goals that no one expects to meet.
These fundamental requirements make it all the more important not only for the 2012 budget to be correctly executed - in which regard we must not overlook the fact that budgetary control still leaves a great deal to be desired - but also for us to manage our resources in an economical way.
The reference here to 'adequate financing' of the Europe 2020 Strategy, when billions from the EU budget are still mysteriously disappearing and available opportunities for potential savings, for example in relation to the jungle of EU agencies or the locations for Parliament, are not utilised, represents a waste of European taxpayers' money.
On the basis of this conviction, I voted against the report.
in writing. - (DE) The current euro crisis underlines the central importance of a correct and economical budgetary policy.
I therefore voted against this report on the 2012 budget.
As every year, we, along with other institutions, will be asked to adopt the EU budget.
In view of this, I have voted in favour of the report on the general budget for 2012 because I agree with the main guidelines defined, namely: incentivising funds to promote growth and overcome the economic crisis by following the Europe 2020 Strategy; giving greater consideration to the European Semester as the ideal instrument for coordinating economic policies; not leaving room for differing availability in different sectors but using only the flexibility mechanisms of available funds by establishing a serious and rigorous management of the resources available for the allocation of funds.
I voted in favour of the report on general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget.
Nonetheless, it is important to point out at every opportunity that the sine qua non to achieving the targets set in the Europe 2020 Strategy is their endorsement by the Member States.
in writing. - (DE) It was not possible to give a roll-call vote on paragraph 29, as I was actively prevented from doing so by the usher.
in writing. - A 2012 budget under the auspices of enhanced European economic governance, the European Semester mechanism and Europe 2020 objectives to boost growth and employment 1.
Takes the view that the Europe 2020 Strategy should help Europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on the five EU headline targets, namely promoting employment, improving the conditions for - and public spending on - innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty; recalls that the Member States themselves have fully endorsed these five targets; 2.
Its redistributive approach consists of added value to the future public expenditure by Member States.
I hope now that the redistribution of available resources aimed at optimising their allocation is carried through to the end, in order to counter the effects of the international crisis that we are all experiencing in our daily lives.
in writing. - On the budget vote for 2012 (General Guidelines) I voted to freeze the budget and against any indication of additional spending because of the coming into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I am not in favour of this report as the final version with the votes on the amendments is manifestly unfair, as it allows migrant workers to remain legally unprotected in some important areas such as social security.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work.
I agree with the rapporteur's position that one of the best ways of combating illegal immigration and undeclared work is to develop balanced legal immigration channels which meet the needs of our labour markets.
Economic immigration is a reality on which we must impose order, but it is also a necessity in view of the demographic and economic challenges which the EU will face in the near future.
It is time for the European Union to legislate on economic immigration in order to establish an approach common to the 27 Member States.
The European Union, a symbol of human rights around the world, must guarantee fair treatment of third-country nationals residing in its territory and establish an inclusive policy towards them.
It has therefore been necessary to harmonise Member States' national laws relating to the admission and residence of those third-country nationals.
That is why I voted in favour of this text which should help simplify admission procedures, fight against the unfair competition that takes place at the expense of European workers, and establish better control in the fight against illegal immigration and undeclared work.
Economic immigration is a necessity which must be encouraged in a controlled manner, given the demographic and economic challenges which the European Union is going to face.
Let us not forget that the progress made by countries such as the United States, Canada or Australia is due to immigrants.
They belong to an extremely dynamic social group which brings additional enthusiasm and a fresh outlook in their approach in their adoptive societies, making the latter more competitive.
Europe will have to respond to its current and future manpower needs and provide a means to combat the exploitation and discrimination that workers often suffer.
By creating a single application procedure for third country nationals who are seeking admission to the territory of a Member State in order to work there, and offering them a secure legal status, this draft directive responds to these needs and also simplifies the often complex administrative process.
The power to determine the number of migrants seeking admission to their territory for the purposes of paid employment and the conditions for this admission continue to be the responsibility of the individual Member States.
For all the above reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
It was a commendable initiative at the beginning, but the text as it is contradicts the stated goals: it is both discriminatory, because the basic principle of equal treatment for all is not respected, and restrictive, since several categories of workers are excluded.
Despite the improvements made since December 2010, there is a continued fear of social inequality among nationals of third countries.
The text as it stands does not provide for equal treatment for all workers in terms of working conditions and social rights.
We should say 'yes' to a common immigration policy, and 'yes' to a genuine single European permit, but we do not want a policy that is restrictive and therefore discriminatory.
We should not forget either that creating a single document will make it easier for local authorities to carry out checks on citizens arriving in the EU.
Last but not least, I must say how pleased I am that the text voted on was supported by my fellow Members because it is designed to guarantee social and economic rights for immigrant workers, with the aim of avoiding social dumping or unfair competition inside the EU.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because the directive on a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work should be a general framework directive on rights for third-country workers, because only then will this European legislative act be able to contribute to the European Union goal of a common migration policy.
It has not been accepted that immigrant workers from third countries, who arrive here legally and do the same work as European Union workers, should enjoy the same rights and working conditions as local workers.
It should be understood that legal migrant workers make a contribution to the EU economy through their work and the taxes and social security contributions they pay, therefore they must be guaranteed the same minimum rights and be treated in the same way in the labour market.
I would like to stress that it is impossible to create a two-tier labour market, either within the European Union itself or outside.
Two separate procedures entail a longer period for processing applications and higher administrative costs.
In actual fact, issuing a single document will also make it easier to check on people admitted to a Member State and authorised to work there.
Establishing a single application procedure will simplify the often complex administrative procedures for admitting economic migrants.
in writing. - (CS) The benefit of the approved directive lies in the fact that it creates a unified approach to handling applications from third country citizens for permits to live and work in a Member State, and provides workers from third countries who are legally residing in the EU with a common set of minimal rights.
There has been an undermining of the principle of equal treatment for all third country workers legally working in the Union compared to EU citizens.
The directive must specify the conditions of entry into the EU and any concrete rights, but it must not create a barrier to a situation where all legal migrant workers can enjoy fair and equal treatment, but, on the contrary, should secure and guarantee such treatment.
This report marks a very important step for European Union legal migration legislation as it creates a single application procedure for third-country citizens.
In addition, migrants will not become a burden on national social welfare systems because Member States will be able to decide that third-country citizens can have access to the social welfare system only after they have worked for a minimum of six months, while those who have come to study cannot claim these benefits.
The one point which must be welcomed in this report is that it defines a set of common measures relating to third-country workers' rights, thereby facilitating the legal migration which the European Union needs.
I voted in favour of this draft report which allows a single residence and work permit for legal immigrants, provides a 'single permit' for third-country nationals and grants them rights similar to those of EU citizens.
I agree with this proposal, which is aimed at simplifying administrative procedures and ensuring equal treatment between EU and immigrant workers for a range of social rights, such as access to social security.
This measure will facilitate legal immigration when it is necessary in order to meet the needs of the European labour market.
The same approach is applied here to workers from 'third countries' outside the European Union.
Different treatment has been adopted for European and non-European workers, thereby increasing competition between them and between foreign workers, depending on whether they are seconded or seasonal workers, students or residents.
Despite moves by European trade unions and the progressive forces in Parliament to obtain full equality of rights for all workers, the text mainly reflects a compromise between the right and the socialists.
This proposal is aimed at responding to the concerns expressed in the Stockholm programme in order to create flexible immigration policies to support the development and economic performance of the EU.
This should make for a more efficient procedure and bring clear benefits for both employers and third-country nationals who want to immigrate to the territory of the Member States.
I therefore voted in favour of the excellent report presented to us by Mrs Mathieu.
The European Parliament has voted in favour of the principle of creating a single work and residence permit for third-country nationals in a Member State.
This procedure provides a set of common rights for these workers, particularly with regard to working conditions, such as working time and holidays.
There is a contradiction here: do we really want to protect the European social model, and should it exclude non-European workers, or should it take a universalist approach and stop discriminating against workers by giving them different rights?
in writing. - I voted against this report that seeks to establish unfair competition between EU workers and migrant workers coming to Europe.
The 'single permit' directive, as amended today by Parliament at first reading, will apply to non-EU nationals seeking to reside and work in a Member State or who already reside legally in an EU country, with the exception of posted workers, seasonal workers, long-term residents and refugees, who will therefore not be covered by its anti-discriminatory provisions It is unacceptable that legal migrants coming to Europe to work are to endure worse working conditions than EU workers doing the same job.
EU legislation must apply to all workers in the EU, regardless of their country of origin.
In December 2010, Members of the European Parliament rejected the text for the first time.
Despite the improvements made since then, there is a continued fear of social inequality among nationals of third countries.
The text as it stands does not provide for equal treatment for all workers in terms of working conditions and social rights.
The issue in question in this proposal is the introduction of a one-stage procedure to grant both employment and residency authorisation and the definition of a common set of rights to all nationals of non-EU countries who legally reside and work in the EU.
This presupposes the existence of rules which are common to all Member States, something which would put an end to the current differences in approach of the various EU countries and which would make the process of giving legal status to workers quicker, more uniform and more transparent throughout the Union.
While the legal migration of labour, and above all qualified labour, helps to fight clandestine working and can improve the competitiveness of the economy and overcome existing shortages, we cannot forget that, during a period of economic crisis and vulnerability where unemployment is growing, labour migration policy must be flexible, as argued by the Commission, but must also be sustainable and reasonable.
Indeed, the expected decrease in the number of Europeans making an active contribution requires the EU to open its borders to third-country nationals, so that they can live and work here; otherwise the current social security systems will fail.
In 2004, the Hague programme, which focused on the need to combat illegal migration, recognised that legal migration would play a vital role in the economic development of the EU.
The Stockholm programme adopted by the Council on 10 and 11 December 2009 acknowledged that the migration of labour can increase competitiveness and economic vitality.
I therefore agree with the position expressed in this report on the proposal for a directive of Parliament and the Council on the regulatory amendment which is aimed at implementing a single procedure in order to grant authorisation to third-country nationals legally resident in one of the Member States, taking into account the demographic challenges which Europe is starting to face.
The proposal for a directive on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State, hinting at alleged improvements in the situation of workers from these countries, may in fact represent an attack on the rights of workers in general.
Let us not forget that the proposal had its genesis in the country-of-origin principle established by the notorious Bolkestein Directive, which promoted the increase in inequalities between workers, particularly in terms of wages, and which was ultimately detrimental to all workers due to the pressure to level down working conditions.
By attempting to establish disparities and differences in treatment between European workers and third-country workers, this proposal for a directive increases the segregation of immigrant workers and further weakens the situation for all workers, forcing them into a situation of greater instability.
In our view it is necessary to strengthen the rights of all workers, including immigrants, seasonal workers and posted workers.
We therefore regret that restrictive measures are being insisted upon following the rejection of the first version of this report... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) The adoption of the report on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State may constitute an attack on the rights of workers in general.
The proposal has as its genesis the Bolkestein Directive, which established the country-of-origin principle, promoting an increase in divisions between workers, particularly in terms of wages, and which proved detrimental to all workers.
This proposal for a directive may promote social dumping and make labour relations more unstable.
In view of this, it is necessary to strengthen the rights of all workers, including immigrants, seasonal workers and posted workers.
However, the struggle of the workers in many European countries, particularly in Portugal, meant that the proposal for a directive was rejected at the last plenary session of 2010.
We regret the insistence on restrictive measures... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (DE) Although overall it would be good if a residence permit and a work permit could be issued together, the following questions remain unanswered and the following remarks are necessary: 1.
Application of the Posting of Workers Directive must take priority and the principle of the application of the social legislation of the country of employment must always be regarded as fundamental. 2.
The countries must carry out more checks in these areas.
I therefore voted against the report which is nothing but an attack against the European social model.
This text establishes exclusions and unequal treatment in social security, pensions and access to employment and training for legal migrant workers, which runs contrary to my values.
in writing. - (LT) The Hague Programme recognised that legal immigration would play an important role in economic development.
The Stockholm Programme adopted by the European Council on 10 and 11 December 2009 expressed the view that labour immigration may increase competitiveness and economic vitality.
In view of the considerable demographic challenges which the European Union will face in future, with growing demand for manpower, this new multiannual programme calls on Member States to adopt flexible immigration policies in order to support the Union's long-term economic development and performance.
These decisions have a strong impact on the lives of the people concerned and Member States, and they must therefore be taken in a way which is completely transparent.
Any rejection decision must be duly substantiated, transparent and objective.
The draft resolution voted in Parliament today on the provision for a single application procedure for the issuance of a permit that would allow third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of the Union represents a further step towards the harmonisation of national laws of Member States.
Establishing the same legal immigration measures in all EU countries, setting out common procedures for those who intend to apply for admission to the territory of a Member State for employment, will allow the EU to meet the needs for workers in domestic labour markets by providing, through the establishment of equal rights, a tool to fight exploitation and discrimination.
The 'single permit' resolution, presented by Mrs Mathieu, specifically targets migrant workers' rights.
The full establishment of the internal market is a powerful tool enabling Europe to return to growth, which is why I supported this text.
in writing. - I voted against this report because key paragraphs on posted workers, pension rights and social security were defeated.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of this report, which returns to the House for the second time, because I believe that it is a good response to the considerable demographic challenges that the European Union will face in the coming years, establishing a single application procedure for third-country nationals who wish to be admitted to the territory of a Member State for work purposes and offering them a secure legal status.
Economic immigration is a reality that must be organised, but it is also a necessity with regard to the democratic and economic challenges which will face the European Union in the near future.
Thus, immigration policy must be thought of as an instrument of adjustment regarding our workforce needs, thus contributing to the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
However, as regards the exclusion of asylum seekers and persons benefiting from international protection, it is important to emphasise that the existing tools in these areas provide greater protection than the present proposal.
This proposal is aimed at introducing a procedure to give a single residence and work permit to legal immigrants, and to grant them a common set of rights throughout the EU.
It is thus possible to simplify the procedures so that the national authorities can grant a single residence and work permit for legal immigrants, so that they can benefit from a set of rights similar to those of the workers in the Member State where they are living.
in writing. - (HU) We can best protect against illegal and irregular immigration if we try to prevent it.
We could lend support to people to find a livelihood and social security in their countries of origin, that is, we could eliminate the causes of their emigration.
For this reason I, too, voted in favour of this horizontal legislative framework being created as soon as possible.
By establishing a single application procedure for third-country nationals seeking to reside and work in the territory of a Member State, and by providing a secure legal status, this proposal for a directive will simplify the often complex administrative steps involved in receiving economic migrants.
This status will also help fight against the unfair competition that often results from the absence of a protective legal status for these workers.
The text adopted today also includes the two main priorities of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE): it removes any reference to additional documents and requests Member States to draw up 'correlation tables' enabling the Commission to verify the transposition of the directive.
It is a clear sign of the willingness of the European Parliament to move towards a European legal framework for legal immigration.
in writing. - The purpose of this directive is to enable potential immigrants into an EU Member State to obtain work and residence permits via a single procedure.
The Employment Committee wants to extend those rights to include equal working time and leave, while clarifying workers' rights to social security and tax benefits.
What is more, all EU Member States will issue single standard permission for residence and work.
I disagree with this because the EU still has an unemployment problem, and therefore voted 'against'.
in writing. - (DE) The entry and residence of third-country nationals are an issue, but in the past the rights in relation to these have been extended more and more.
Whereas in the United States, for example, they do not burden the social system, and in some States they also have to leave once their job comes to an end, through the increasing level of equality with the resident population that they have been afforded in recent years, they constitute an ever greater burden for those States with traditionally well-developed social systems if they remain in the country permanently after losing their jobs and if, as a result of them bringing any family they have to join them, all the relatives have to be supported, too.
I wanted to express my vote against the report in relation to single residence permits for citizens of third countries because today, in the House, some amendments were voted to exclude the requirement for employment as being necessary in order to have access to benefits and social services.
If a European Union exists, it is to ensure, also, that the inhabitants of Member States that are its citizens can enjoy greater rights and guarantees than are called for in this report.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for this resolution because I think that non-EU workers should enjoy the same rights on work conditions as EU citizens, in accordance with the 'Single Permit' Directive.
Member States retain their power to set these admission criteria and the number of migrants they wish to admit to their own country with a view to taking up employment.
I voted in favour of Mrs Mathieu's proposal for a directive on the single application procedure for a residence and work permit for third-country nationals.
The proposal for a directive calls on the Member States to adopt flexible immigration policies to support the long-term development of the Union.
In addition, it will simplify the often complex administrative procedures for receiving migrant workers, while also providing a tool to combat the exploitation and discrimination imposed on some categories of workers.
I voted in favour of this Parliament legislative resolution on a proposal for a directive of Parliament and the Council on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State, and a common set of rights for third-country workers who are legally resident in a Member State.
This matter is all the more relevant in the current economic and social situation.
The Stockholm programme adopted by the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2009 calls on Member States to adopt immigration policies marked by flexible arrangements to support the development and economic performance of the Union.
It introduces, in particular, a single application procedure for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a Member State for employment, by: (i) simplifying the often complex administrative procedures for receiving migrants; (ii) defining an instrument for the prevention of exploitation and discrimination in the workplace; (iii) ensuring that labour markets of Member States will definitely be able to respond to the need for workers, now and in the future.
The Directive applies to all citizens admitted to the territory for work and those who were initially admitted for other reasons and who have subsequently obtained a work permit in accordance with the provisions of national or EU law.
in writing. - (RO) Economic immigration is a reality on which we must impose order, but it is also a necessity in view of the demographic and economic challenges which the EU will face in the near future.
The directive will apply not only to any third-country national admitted to the territory of a Member State for employment purposes, but also to all those who were originally admitted for other purposes but who have acquired the right to work there on the basis of national or Community law.
Each Member State must lay down the conditions under which social security benefits are granted, as well as the amount of these benefits and the period for which they are granted.
The adoption of this directive, which establishes a single application procedure for third-country nationals who wish to be admitted to the territory of a Member State in order to reside and work there, and grants them a common set of rights in areas linked to the work market, will address these concerns head-on, and so it deserves my vote.
It shows that the Union is genuinely committed to promoting legal migration and is not the European fortress that some people believe it to be.
The European Parliament has also made the right choice by excluding four categories of workers from the field of application: seasonal workers, workers posted within their undertaking, self-employed workers, and seafarers, all of whom are already or will soon be covered by specific directives.
in writing. - The directive as it stands excludes a lot of categories such as seasonal workers, intra-corporate transferees, refugees and posted workers, etc.
Even if some of these categories are covered by other directives, the example of the Commission proposal on seasonal workers shows that these directives are not sufficient in terms of rights.
We should stand for a common framework for all workers, as it would unify the legislation in working places by avoiding fragmenting the workers' situation with the risk of jeopardising the integration of migrants and the cohesion in the EU.
Even if very important issues such as the portability of pensions to third countries no longer being conditional on the existence of bilateral agreements have been won thanks to Jean, I cannot help thinking that we should advocate the equal treatment and non discrimination of all workers in the EU.
I regret the shortcomings concerning seasonal workers, posted workers, the right to change employer and the right to enter and re-enter, because these subgroups will be protected in other (future) legislation.
All in all, this directive is extremely important given that it is the first of its kind to grant a common set of minimum rights (including salary rights, equal treatment at work, pension rights and access to health care) to workers from third countries who are legally resident in Europe, which it does on the basis of equal treatment with national workers of Member States.
This scheme is far from a complete common immigration policy, but in view of increasing immigration flows, the constantly changing demand for foreign labour and the prevention of abuse and discrimination in this regard, this first form of protection is essential.
in writing. - I voted against as I feel that it opens the door to unfair competition to EU workers and low-cost migrant workers coming to the EU.
This report is aimed at establishing a single residence and work permit for third-country nationals in a Member State, and thus speed up and make more uniform the admission process, while also reducing its bureaucratic and financial burden.
Economic migration is now a reality which should be analysed in view of the development of legal and balanced migration channels to meet the needs of European labour markets.
The economic and demographic challenges which Europe is facing mean that a common immigration policy needs to be drawn up for the 27 Member States.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has established a new legal basis on this matter, the codecision process, and so I believe that it is vital to establish a common and harmonised approach in order to reduce the differences between national laws.
The adoption of this report is a significant step forward in protecting the rights of third-country workers in the EU by granting them a single permit for residence and work.
The creation of a single working document represents significant progress in the control and regulation of migration flows from Member States and will enable legal immigration to be monitored more easily.
Establishing a common legal framework for European and foreign workers protects our citizens against all forms of unfair competition in the labour market.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer rights, which merges four existing Community directives in a single legal instrument.
I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that the fragmentary nature of existing legislation deters consumers and undertakings alike from participating in cross-border trade.
However, we must be cautious, because due to the nature of this area, it is rather difficult to fully harmonise legislation in the realm of consumer rights, and moreover, this may reduce the level of protection of consumer rights in certain Member States.
This draft directive aims to provide better protection for consumers in all Member States of the European Union by enabling them, in particular, to enjoy an adequate right of withdrawal.
Every citizen and consumer should be guaranteed the same rights within the Union.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report which will be reconsidered by the parliamentary committee responsible.
This directive is aimed at combining EU legislation regulating consumer rights, safeguarding a high level of consumer protection across all EU Member States and encouraging businesses to provide services and sell goods in other Member States.
Legislation in force until now set only minimum requirements for the protection of consumer rights, and the Member States were able to apply more stringent measures, thus leading to different legal regimes in the Community.
We must ensure that the same standards of consumer rights protection apply in all EU Member States, enabling us to avoid the inconsistency that currently exists in the internal market, strengthen consumer confidence in the internal market and encourage companies to trade in other Member States.
The proposal for a directive on consumer rights presented by the Commission combines four previous directives in a single legislative instrument.
It is the result of revision of the acquis related to the consumer, which started in 2004 with the aim of simplifying and completing the existing regulatory framework relating to consumer protection.
I believe the fragmentation of legal rules acts as a deterrent both to companies and consumers from buying or selling across borders.
The report under discussion aims to achieve necessary balance between a high level of consumer protection and the competitiveness of companies in the insurance market, while at the same time respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
I congratulate Mr Schwab for the work done so far.
I voted in favour because the Schwab report has the merit of protecting consumers in their cross-border purchases.
At the same time, it seeks to protect and support companies, regardless of their size, which can provide goods and services to consumers in Europe without encountering unnecessary legal barriers.
In this sense, the document could contribute to a better functioning of the internal market by increasing consumer confidence.
in writing. - (CS) The approved report sweeps away the fragmentary nature of existing regulations in the area of consumer protection, which ends up discouraging consumers and businesses from getting involved in cross-border trade.
Consumers in particular often complain that they cannot make full use of the advantages of the single market, especially in relation to trading over the Internet.
Also beneficial is the creation of a list of basic information to be provided by the seller before any kind of consumer contract is concluded, and the unification of the deadline for withdrawing from a contract at 14 days in the case of distance or off-premises contracts, including the creation of a single form for withdrawal from a contract.
Unfortunately, in the case of this report we have seen how the left has, at the last minute, failed to support the compromise agreed with the rapporteur, and we have therefore had to put it to the vote.
However, that is no disaster in my opinion, and on the contrary it is perhaps an illustration of the fact that the European Parliament works as a political body in which an open and genuine ideological conflict between the European right and the left unfolds.
In October 2008, the Commission submitted a proposal for a directive aimed at bringing together in one text the acquis on consumer protection, which covers four directives on unfair contract terms, certain aspects of sales and guarantees on consumer goods, consumer protection in distance sales and consumer protection in contracts concluded away from business premises.
I believe that this legislative text, which was voted upon today, strengthens consumer protection while taking into account the characteristics of the sector, in which complete harmonisation may not always be feasible.
The objective is very ambitious: it means to create a complete reform of consumer legal protection which addresses the entire subject of contracts and which brings into play the 27 national laws that provide different levels of protection.
The absence of common rules in various Member States has given way to fragmentation of legal frameworks which is harmful for both consumers and manufacturers and in fact prevents the realisation of a common market.
Consumer rights are one of the main pillars of the internal market.
Their protection and security are vital to greater security in driving the acquisition of goods on a day-to-day basis for cross-border trade and, as a result, for the competitiveness of businesses.
In this sense, a balance between consumer rights and the cost that these may impose on businesses is crucial.
Moreover, it is important to bear in mind the different national characteristics and the protection that is offered, with due respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - (PT) This draft directive on consumer rights merges the four Community directives in force into a single legislative instrument.
On the one hand, it is aimed at ensuring that consumers in all of the 27 Member States have confidence in a high level of consumer protection, and, on the other hand, that businesses, whether large or small, can provide goods and services without unnecessary legal obstacles to consumers in the 27 EU Member States.
As for the consumers, this proposal aims to ensure that, no matter where in the EU they make their purchases, they have access to clear information about prices and additional charges before signing a contract.
We are at the stage of the first reading of the draft directive on consumer rights, submitted by the Commission.
This could lead to the loss of consumer rights in some Member States.
However, the conditions seem to be in place to go even further in protecting consumer rights by seeking to influence the negotiations with the Council in a positive way.
in writing. - (DE) Facilitation of cross-border trade by means of uniform rules and at the same time a strengthening of consumer rights, above all in connection with purchasing goods in another Member State, are the reasons why I expressly welcome the 'new' Consumer Protection Directive.
The current uncertainty that still remains with regard to the applicable consumer rights deters companies from offering their goods across borders and consumers from ordering these goods, as there is a lack of clarity over what happens in the possible event of withdrawal.
A European single market expressly requires the removal of such barriers.
The uniform definitions proposed in this report, which among other things harmonise the withdrawal right and rules relating to unfair contract terms in contracts, will create legal certainty and thus increase the appeal of cross-border trade for companies, which will ultimately benefit consumers.
Chapter V was not adopted and therefore consumer protection will be applied throughout Europe according to the highest criteria.
However, I voted in favour of deferring the final vote in order to strengthen consumer protection against certain abusive practices, for which the chosen level of protection remains insufficient.
In any event, I will not vote in favour of a text that violates the most basic consumer rights.
in writing. - (SV) The amendments tabled by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection are, unfortunately, of poor quality from a purely legislative perspective, and Chapters II, IV and V are superfluous.
In the compromise proposals (block II), the restrictions on distance and direct selling are unreasonable and unacceptable.
in writing. - The Commission's original proposal for a consumer rights directive was an unwelcome, unnecessary attempt to enforce maximum harmonisation for no apparent reason other that to satisfy those who believe that cultural and legal diversity runs counter to the EU's principles.
The proposal would have led to a reduction in consumer rights in various European countries and there was no evidence it would have benefitted the market.
The compromise package agreed in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection is far from perfect but marks a significant improvement and a base upon which we can build in negotiations with the other institutions.
One idea was to bring this article into line with Article 20 of the Services Directive, which would also reduce the risk of contradictory legislation.
in writing. - (RO) According to the EU 2020 Strategy, high-quality and environmentally sustainable production is one of the EU's competitive advantages.
A high level of consumer protection guarantees high-quality products and improves consumer confidence, thereby making the internal market more effective.
I welcome the proposals tabled by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection on a new consumer rights directive as they strive to ensure transparency for companies, with the aim of unlocking the potential of cross-border trade in the EU.
The new consumer rights regulations include almost every type of sales, in stores, via telephone or online.
They reinforce in particular the provisions on international sales, based on the proposals made in the report drafted by my colleague Andreas Schwab.
Unlike the four existing consumer protection directives, I think that the new legislation provides added value because it stipulates what kind of information the purchaser must receive from the seller, the delivery terms and the rules applied when the risk lies with the purchaser, not to mention the latter's right to cancel or refuse purchases or the right to have an item repaired or replaced.
in writing. - I voted to send this report back to committee because the Commission's response to Parliament's amendments was woefully inadequate.
in writing. - (IT) The Commission's proposal aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by reducing trade barriers across borders, but poses problems for both consumers and manufacturers.
It should support all efforts aimed at making the internal market more effective and encourage cross-border trade, but Article 38 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights requires that EU policies ensure a high level of consumer protection.
It will be appropriate to develop a European system of liability in the event of non-compliance to improve consumer protection and confidence in the markets.
In line with the Europe 2020 Strategy, their high level of protection ensures quality products and at the same time fosters the performance of the internal market.
Unfortunately however, we note that the proposed directive does not take into account new products on the market due to changes taking place in development and innovation, as in the case of digital products.
It is essential that consumers of the 27 Member States can rely on a high level of protection and that manufacturers, regardless of their size, can provide their goods and services to consumers in the 27 Member States without having to deal with unnecessary legal barriers.
Parliament's action is necessary both to strengthen consumer confidence and to encourage and support manufacturers wishing to engage in cross-border trade.
The diversification of rules on consumer rights in Europe is a serious deterrent to manufacturers even in their buying and selling of goods and services across borders.
In particular, e-commerce is an area where consumers cannot benefit from the internal market nor from their consumer rights, which is due to the fact that manufacturers in a given sector are reluctant to comply with different rules as they enter a new market and thus run the risk of being sued in another Member State.
The text replaces four existing directives with one, with a view to simplifying and improving the regulation of consumer protection.
The added value of the European Union must translate into a clear benefit for consumers by facilitating cross-border online transactions in particular.
Specifically, the text proposes a model withdrawal form for distance contracts and off-premises contracts, and the period of the right of withdrawal is harmonised at 14 days.
in writing. - (DE) In today's vote on the text of the directive on consumer rights, some members of the German Free Democratic Party (FDP) in the European Parliament abstained.
However, the text adopted today also contains rules that would heavily burden companies without increasing consumer protection.
Article 5, for example, will mean that a company will have to provide very extensive pre-contractual information even when goods are purchased in store.
Article 22a places companies under obligation, in the case of distance contracts, to supply their goods to customers in any Member State.
Furthermore, the FDP was unable to succeed in its core demand for the complete deletion of Chapters IV and V of the directive.
The FDP calls for these provisions to be amended during the trilogue negotiations with the Council and Commission.
This proposal involves the replacement of the four directives currently in force on contracts concluded away from business premises, unfair terms, distance contracts and the sale and guaranteeing of consumer goods into a single piece of legislation.
The aim of this draft directive is to increase the confidence and protection of consumers in the purchases that they make in shops or on the Internet, and to reduce the reluctance of businesses to sell in other EU countries.
The draft directive on consumer rights is aimed at ensuring that, no matter where in the EU they make a purchase, consumers have access to clear information about prices and additional charges before signing a contract.
This directive will strengthen the internal market.
in writing. - The aim is to increase the confidence of shoppers and provide transparency for businesses so as to unleash the potential for growth in cross-border commerce within the EU.
The new rules will cover almost all sales made in shops, by phone or online but will particularly strengthen the rules on cross-border transactions.
I would like to add that public transport and air transport tickets should be covered by rules on consumer rights.
in writing. - (DE) There are indeed a few points that speak in favour of the directive on consumer protection, such as improvement of the obligations to provide information, extension of the withdrawal period and also the increased obligations for sellers to provide protection in the case of online shops.
There are a few reasons why I abstained in the vote, namely that in my opinion inadequate sanctions are provided for, no right of withdrawal is planned in the case of Internet auctions and, above all, the definition of doorstep selling is very vague.
in writing. - (DE) This report concerns the bringing together of four different directives on consumer protection and thus contains the acquis communautaire since 2004.
I have voted in favour of the report by Mr Schwab as I believe that the report represents a fair balance between protecting consumers on the one hand, who must be protected from fraud and unorthodox behaviour by manufacturers and third parties, and, on the other, avoiding regulations that are too stringent for manufacturers, by imposing obligations which, given the size of their business and turnover, they sometimes cannot put up with.
Take the case of a craftsman who, in theory, can work outside business premises: he cannot be subjected to the same requirements as a large multinational company which manages and concludes thousands of contracts every day.
I voted in favour because I believe that the codification of consumer rights in a single document is a positive step.
It is worth highlighting the reduction of barriers to cross-border trade and commending the attempt to make the internal market more effective and promote cross-border trade through a combination of four directives that are now consolidated into one.
The draft directive does contain aspects that can and should be improved, but it is a very positive development in this area nonetheless.
The Commission's proposal concerning consumer rights, filed on 8 October 2008, aims to unite the four previous directives in a single instrument on the basis of the principle of 'full harmonisation'.
The fragmentation of rules is, in fact, considered a deterrent for both consumers and businesses who buy or sell across borders.
In line with the resolution of Parliament and with the statement made in the working document of the Committee for Internal Markets and Consumer Protection in 2009, a new approach based on full harmonisation is preferred, that is to say harmonisation limited to specific aspects of certain contracts while maintaining a high level of consumer protection.
Based on the above, I hereby give my favourable vote to ensure ever greater protection of consumer rights.
in writing. - (DE) I am pleased with today's decision on consumer protection.
It is heartening that it was possible to find a sensible approach for a partial standardisation of the multitude of European systems of law.
Procurement element means, for example, that if someone asks a beautician to come to his or her house in order to utilise the beautician's services (in other words the person procures the business connection him- or herself), the right of withdrawal should no longer apply. (2) We need to ensure that no additional burdens for SMEs arise, provided that adequate consumer protection is ensured.
Ultimately, additional financial and administrative burdens on SMEs would be passed on to customers. (3) Chapters IV and V (liability and unfair terms) should be deleted, because even after lengthy negotiations it was not possible to achieve the desired full harmonisation.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the compromise package on consumer rights negotiated between the groups, because it was possible to introduce some improvements to the directive compared with the Commission's proposal.
It is important that the basis of the directive is once again minimum harmonisation and services like those in the health or social sphere are removed from the directive.
In Austria, a purchase at a trade fair has up to now been treated, from a legal point of view, in the same way as a purchase in a shop.
The highest priority in this regard is Chapter V of the directive, with which the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament is completely dissatisfied.
I have therefore also voted for referral back to committee, so that these essential points can also be resolved and improved.
in writing. - (FR) A well-protected consumer is a citizen at ease and a sign of maturity in our modern democracies.
It is in response to the often unequal relations between professionals and consumers that the European Parliament has opted for a right of withdrawal set at 14 days.
In addition, we wanted to ensure a high level of protection for all consumers.
We could not accept a text that would mean a reduction in consumer protection for any EU citizen.
The text was not fully subject to minimum harmonisation, and the text of individual Articles was neither clear nor good enough to ensure that there would be no reduction in consumer protection for some EU citizens.
After today's vote in the EP, the text is back with the Commission.
Europe's task is to protect the interests of citizens and consumers in Europe and today the House finally recognises the just protection of these rights.
Historically, Europe bases its foundation on the single European market.
Establishing common guidelines appears, now more than ever, to be a priority for our institutions: only then can you guarantee increasingly freer trade for all European citizens.
in writing. - I welcome the implementation of rule 57 with the report returning to the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection as this will ensure greater consumer protection.
The Commission is seeking to simplify and complete the regulatory framework on consumer rights, and it is therefore proposing the fusion of the four existing directives into a single legislative instrument.
On the one hand, this proposal envisages giving consumers throughout the 27 Member States a high level of confidence in the protection of their rights, and, on the other hand, envisages that the entities that provide goods and services will reduce the legal and administrative obstacles to cross-border sales.
The adoption of this report is another step towards the full achievement of the internal market, since the existing legal fragmentation is a deterrent for both consumers and businesses when they want to conduct cross-border trade.
At the same time, the rapporteur includes flexibility clauses that allow the Member States to maintain a high level of consumer protection.
The application of a set of rights and duties for consumers and businesses under a single legal framework will enable a simplified network for the growth of internal market transaction.
in writing. - (LT) The new rules intended to renew current EU legislation on consumer rights need to cover all types of purchases, whether they are made over the telephone, online, in a shop or at home.
This is a problem throughout Europe, but particularly in my own country.
I support this report because communications, infrastructure and electronic services are essential in today's society, and because the European Network and Information Security Agency has done important work, still underway, particularly on cybersecurity.
Extending its mandate and responsibilities therefore makes sense.
The European Network and Information Security Agency plays a specific role in supporting Member States in their efforts to cooperate in this area at EU level.
Information and communications technologies have become key elements in our economy and society as a whole.
The report focuses on protecting Europe against cyber attacks and disruptions to IT systems by increasing the level of preparation, security and resilience.
I voted for this report as it aims to develop an IT network and data security culture which will benefit citizens, businesses and public sector organisations in the European Union.
I believe that the European Network and Information Security Agency's mandate is needed to enable the European Union, Member States and stakeholders to develop a level of preparation and the capacity to prevent and detect network and data security problems, and to respond to them more effectively.
This explains why I voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report extending the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) until the adoption of a new regulation on this agency's revised provisions and principles at work.
ENISA was established in 2004 for an initial period of five years, with the main goal of ensuring a high and effective level of network and information security within the Union, thus contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market.
Recent cyber attacks in the Member States are making us rethink and reformulate the Agency's mandate to attain a more flexible response capability and to bolster the Agency's operational efficiency.
Giving all EU citizens the opportunity to use digital technology, and ensuring confidence in the Internet and its security, is one of the key objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe.
in writing. - (BG) I supported Giles Chichester's report on establishing the European Network and Information Security Agency as regards its duration because I think that information and communications technology (ICT) has become the backbone of the European economy and society as a whole.
I voted in favour of this report since I agree with the need to extend the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency.
This body, established by the European Union in 2004 for a five-year term, now needs a further extension in order to make it relevant to present-day needs and security risks.
I decided to vote for this report as I feel it is necessary to extend the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency until 2013.
This agency was set up for a period of five years in March 2004, which was then extended until March 2012.
in writing. - I was delighted to vote in favour of the extension of the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) until September 2013.
This agency was established in 2002 for an initial period of five years.
It is important to have such an agency in place in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market that concretely affects the daily lives of the citizens and business alike, using broadband, online banking, e-commerce and mobile phones.
Given the fact that attacks on information systems are constantly increasing, it is a critical time to have effective security measures in place in order to protect the integrity of Europe's information systems.
It is estimated that the necessary funding for the extension of ENISA's current mandate would be EUR 12.698 million in commitments.
I agree with extending the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency by 18 months, as proposed by the Commission and voted upon by the parliamentary committee, so as to allow a rich and fruitful discussion between the European institutions, involving the people, about the challenges, priorities and responsibilities of the agency, and at the same time to avoid the legal vacuum that would be caused if the mandate were not extended.
in writing. - (PT) This report focuses on a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 460/2004, which established the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA).
ENISA was created in 2004 with an initial period of five years, and was aimed at supporting the functioning of the internal market by controlling network security and ensuring the flow of information within the EU.
In March 2009, the Commission asked ENISA to support the Member States in their protection against cyber-attacks and disturbances.
In July of the same year, the Member States supported the extension of ENISA's mandate.
Given that issues linked to network security and the flow of information have a key role in the Digital Agenda for Europe (Europe 2020), I would like to express my agreement with the extension of ENISA's mandate by another 18 months.
In particular, we cannot ignore the fact that the inherent approach for enhancing security and monitoring cyberspace have not always properly ensured that there is respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the public.
We believe that it is particularly significant that the EU is funding research programmes of large multinationals which dominate the technologies that allow governments to spy on Internet users, while creating and developing agencies such as ENISA, which will pay for the use of these same technologies.
The extension of the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) and the strengthening of its resources, supposedly in the interests of a higher level of security for information networks within the EU, is part of an approach towards enhancing security which does not always properly respect the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the public.
Information security is of increasing importance to all our citizens and I was happy to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because the European Union Presidency's Conference Conclusions at the Ministerial Conference on Critical Information Infrastructure Protection held in Tallinn stress that in order to address new and long-term problems in the future, we need to rethink and reformulate the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), to attain a more flexible response capability, to develop skills and competences, and to bolster the Agency's operational efficiency and overall impact.
This would render ENISA a permanent asset for each Member State and the European Union at large.
The Commission is proposing a Regulation extending the current mandate of the Agency for 18 months to allow sufficient time for debate on a review of the Agency's new provisions.
ENISA was established in March 2004 for an initial period of five years by Regulation (EC) No 460/2004[1], with the main goal of ensuring a high and effective level of network and information security within the European Union, and in order to develop a culture of network and information security for the benefit of the citizens, consumers, enterprises and public sector organisations of the European Union, thus contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market.
Regulation (EC) No 1007/2008[2] extended ENISA's mandate until March 2012.
The proposed amendment to Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 which established the ENISA (European Network and Information Security Agency) and its duration, can only have my absolute support.
I voted in favour of this proposal because I am convinced of the importance of its work regarding the safety of communications, and of putting in place the jurisdiction assigned to it for the fight against cybercrime, as provided by the amendment.
In fact, extending its duration will, in my opinion, avoid the risk of a dangerous gap in the law.
in writing. - I voted for this Report on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 establishing the European Network and Information Security Agency as regards its duration.
in writing. - (IT) Information and communication technology (ICT) is now an integral part the economy and society of the European Union.
Today, due to the continuing evolution of media and information systems, ICT is increasingly exposed to threats that cannot be addressed effectively at a national level alone.
The extension of the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) by 18 months, as proposed by the Commission, makes perfect sense, as it allows the necessary discussions to be carried out within the European institutions, involving all stakeholders, including the public, about the challenges, priorities and responsibilities of the Agency, and thus avoiding the legal vacuum that would be caused if the mandate were not extended.
The security of information networks is a priority for all those who use them.
in writing. - (DE) The European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) was founded back in 2004.
It is also tasked with developing a culture of network and information security among citizens, consumers, businesses and public organisations in the European Union.
In the context of exercises, as recently carried out against cyber crime, it must be possible to guarantee security in the event an emergency situation.
Between 2005 and 2009, the budget for the EU agencies more than doubled and the number of employees rose by 65%.
On average, taxpayers have to pay EUR 579 million per year for the EU agencies.
It is unacceptable for taxpayers to finance the officials of the Member States with very cushy jobs in pointless agencies.
I therefore voted against the report on establishing the European Network and Information Security Agency.
It is precisely because I think it is important to ensure safety in this area, since we are in the digital age, that I have voted in favour of the regulation.
I agree with this amendment to the mandate of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA).
The Agency's legislative reform process, which is underway, still needs to be discussed at length, so the Agency's mandate, which expires on 13 March 2010, needs to be extended.
In fact, it is necessary to approve an extension that gives enough time for Parliament and the Council to hold a discussion, so that the Agency's work maintains its consistency and continuity.
In view of this, I voted in favour of this amendment, which states that the Agency's mandate should be extended until 13 September 2013.
The strengthening of networks and information is a matter of great importance.
It is therefore vital to ensure that there is enough time for the discussions that form part of the legislative reform process of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) to be carried out thoroughly, so I voted in favour of the extension of the Agency's mandate until 13 September 2013.
in writing. - Following the Ordinary legislative procedure: (first reading) The European Parliament, having regard to the Commission proposal to Parliament and the Council, having regard to Article 294(2) and Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, pursuant to which the Commission submitted the proposal to Parliament (C7-0297/2010), having regard to Article 294(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee of 8 December 2010(1), having regard to Rule 55 of its Rules of Procedure, having regard to the report of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, 1.
Calls on the Commission to refer the matter to Parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3.
ENISA, the European Agency responsible for information security, must be given a stronger role in fighting cybercrime, which must go hand in hand with a simplification of administrative procedures.
I conclude by reiterating that this is also the position in my country, which wishes to strengthen the resources allocated to the Agency.
in writing. - (DE) In 2004, the European Network and Information Security Agency was set up for a period of five years.
Its 57 members of staff are concerned with the development of network and information security for citizens, consumers and businesses, and also for public organisations in the European Union.
There are already initiatives in place for the review of the system as a whole and I will not vote in favour of extending this agency until a review of this kind has been completed.
The European Union must therefore take steps to supply all the humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support necessary to Japan and the affected regions.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this motion for a resolution.
Japan has been struck by a natural disaster on a massive scale which also caused a major nuclear accident, the true scale of which has so far been impossible to assess and which will have consequences for people's health and the environment for decades to come.
The European Union immediately activated its Civil Protection Mechanism to coordinate its humanitarian, technical and financial aid.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it expresses the solidarity of the people of Europe with Japan.
Parliament is highlighting the courage of the Japanese in this crisis, the most serious since the Second World War, which has so severely affected their country.
However, the archipelago is faced with a nuclear problem that is of extreme concern and requires our full attention.
It suits Europe to provide all its assistance and expertise to the Japanese authorities in order to prevent a catastrophe of the devastating consequences of which we are unfortunately all too well aware.
in writing. - (BG) I voted for the motion for a resolution on Japan as I think that it is our duty to show our solidarity with a people which has been hit with a triple misfortune and lost many of its citizens.
On the other hand, the disaster in Japan, especially the incident at Fukushima and the emergency situation following it, has brought back to the agenda the issue about the need for nuclear energy and its consequences.
At the same time, I strongly believe that we should not overdramatise what has happened and abandon nuclear energy in the heat of the emotion.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that the disaster at Fukushima nuclear power plant is forcing us to consider the situation and future as regards European nuclear energy.
Immediately following the events in Japan, for instance, Germany shut down its nuclear reactors built before 1980 and, taking into account specialists' research and expertise, is negotiating new alternatives to nuclear energy.
Serious flaws in the operation of nuclear power plants are raising fears of a nuclear disaster and forcing us to rethink nuclear safety standards in Europe.
This crisis is the most serious crisis that Japan has experienced since the Second World War.
I voted for this motion for a resolution as I think that the European Parliament and European Union as a whole must show their solidarity in response to the tragic events which have occurred in Japan.
I also believe that it is paramount that the particularly serious nuclear accident caused by this natural disaster is investigated properly so as to avoid the possibility of such incidents occurring in the future.
On 11 March, Japan was hit by a massive earthquake, followed by a tsunami that has caused the greatest nuclear crisis in the country's history, with the Fukushima nuclear plant suffering serious structural damage, and since then having been in imminent danger of triggering a nuclear disaster of major proportions.
The problems that have occurred at the Fukushima nuclear plant have put the discussion of energy issues at the top of the agenda once again.
I therefore wholeheartedly support this resolution, which seeks, firstly, to develop a plan for verifying the security of all European nuclear power plants, and, on the other, to significantly increase energy production from renewable sources so that it becomes the main source of energy in the EU.
We should also stress the need for energy efficiency and the fulfilment of the EU 2020 objectives.
We therefore supported the resolution and voted in favour.
In particular, there is a need to review and, if necessary, adjust redundancies in the security systems in the existing plants in EU Member States.
We voted in favour of solidarity with the Japanese Government following its threefold disaster - the earthquake, the tsunami and the nuclear accident - which has struck the country.
In a joint resolution submitted by all of the political groups, Parliament asks the EU and its Member States to extend all possible aid and support needed at a humanitarian, technical and financial level to Japan.
The devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan on 11 March caused thousands of deaths and missing persons, along with considerable material damage.
The disaster also caused an extremely serious nuclear accident which is affecting the Fukushima nuclear plant and constitutes a new threat.
By the same token, we would like to highlight the 'mobilisation, courage and determination' of the Japanese people in the face of this disaster, and call upon the EU and its Member States to extend all possible aid and support needed at a humanitarian, technical and financial level to Japan and the regions affected, as a priority.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the devastating earthquake and the tsunami which struck Japan and the Pacific region on 11 March this year resulted in the death or disappearance of thousands of people and caused considerable material damage.
The disaster also caused an extremely serious nuclear accident, which is affecting Fukushima nuclear power plant and constitutes a fresh threat.
The Prime Minister of Japan, Naoto Kan, has stated that the country is facing its most serious crisis in 65 years, since the Second World War.
I am pleased that the European Parliament also expresses its most complete solidarity with the Japanese people and government and presents its sincere condolences to the victims of this threefold disaster, bearing in mind that the human losses and material damage have not yet been fully assessed.
It also welcomes the mobilisation, courage and determination of the Japanese people and of the authorities in response to this disaster, and calls on the Union and its Member States, as a priority, to give Japan and the disaster regions all necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support.
Today's motion for a resolution to give support to Japan has been voted in unanimously by all political groups in Parliament in order to express our closeness to Japan, the protagonist of the tragic events of 11 March 2011.
I supported the resolution because, despite the economic and financial downturn and the instability in North African countries, European institutions should not and cannot fail to support Japan both economically and in terms of humanitarian aid.
The meeting between the EU and Japan, scheduled for May here in Brussels, can represent the beginning of the collaboration and support which the EU must guarantee in setting itself up as a key partner for reconstruction, helping Japan whether it be with technical assistance in the energy sector or strengthening business relationships aimed at quickly rebuilding this great world power.
Moreover, I consider it fitting that the European Ministers of Energy have decided to give priority to safety in European nuclear plants, emphasising the importance of greater European coordination during the modernisation of nuclear facilities.
The situation at Fukushima arouses dread and compassion in all of us, and asks questions of our own system for producing nuclear energy.
As with any issue, and particularly for those of such strategic importance, democratic debate must enable wise solutions to be adopted.
Lisbon suffered a great deal of damage as a result of a tsunami centuries ago, as did Messina at a later date and Skopje due to an earthquake 50 years ago.
in writing. - One of course has to agree with the joint resolution tabled on behalf of the political groups on the triple tragedies in Japan of earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident and join in expressing Europe's condolences for those who lost their lives in these awful events.
Although the EU has already activated its Civil Protection Mechanism by sending experts from Europe to coordinate emergency aid, we also urge Member States, as a priority, to support disaster areas with all the humanitarian, technical and financial help and support they need.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution expressing the solidarity of members of the European Parliament with the Japanese people and their government after the striking events of recent days.
We wish to see the Union and the Member States supply all the humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support necessary to Japan and the affected regions.
In this joint resolution submitted by all of the political groups, we call upon the EU and its Member States to extend all possible aid and support needed at a humanitarian, technical and financial level to Japan.
The disaster also caused an extremely serious nuclear accident which is affecting the Fukushima nuclear plant and itself constitutes a serious threat.
It is also our duty to express our complete solidarity with the Japanese people and their government, and to send our condolences to the victims of this threefold disaster.
Faced with the extent of the tsunami and the magnitude of the earthquake on 11 March, I must express my complete solidarity with the victims' families and the people and government of Japan.
I should also like to express my full support and my complete admiration to the rescuers and the staff of the Fukushima power station.
Fortunately, the European Union was in a position to respond rapidly to the Japanese request, in particular by deploying its 'Civil Protection Mechanism', which is designed to coordinate the actions of the 27 Member States in emergencies at the national, European and international level.
By the same token, the Union is ready to provide all its technical expertise in the nuclear arena in order to help Japanese and international experts to take control of the situation in the proximity and in the very heart of the Fukushima power plant.
in writing. - (DE) The devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan and the Pacific region on 11 March 2011 resulted in the deaths or disappearance of thousands of people as well as considerable material damage, destroying the livelihoods of many people.
This subsequently led to an extremely serious nuclear accident in the Fukushima nuclear power station.
According to the statement given by the Japanese Prime Minister, Naoto Kan, the country is facing its most serious crisis in 65 years, since the Second World War.
In this motion for a resolution, the European Parliament expresses its solidarity with the Japanese people and presents its sincere condolences to the victims of the disaster.
All countries using nuclear power should check the safety of their nuclear power plants.
However, at present it is most important for the European Union to show solidarity with the ordinary people of Japan.
The resolution on the situation in Japan is therefore crucial.
We must provide all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial support to help people survive now and to reconstruct affected regions in the future as soon as possible.
The disastrous earthquake that struck Japan on 11 March cannot pass unnoticed in the eyes of the world; it must be our cue to reflect on the political and socio-economic aspects of the disastrous consequences of the tsunami.
I hope and request that the EU will take action to provide humanitarian aid, through its own civil protection services, and propose suitable projects to solve the problem of nuclear contamination through a joint project with the Japanese authorities to try, as far as possible, to restore the situation to normal.
On 11 March, Japan and the Pacific region were hit by a devastating earthquake, followed by a tsunami which caused thousands of deaths and missing persons, along with considerable material damage.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which expresses solidarity with the victims of the earthquake, the tsunami and the nuclear accident, and I hope that Parliament's call for the EU and its Member States to extend all possible aid and support needed at a humanitarian, technical and financial level to the regions affected, will be heeded with the utmost urgency.
At a time when Japan is facing its worst crisis since World War II, following the earthquake and tsunami that devastated the country on 11 March, I would like to join the expression of complete solidarity with the Japanese people and Parliament's call for the EU and its Member States to extend to the affected regions all the help and aid needed at a humanitarian, technical and financial level, as a matter of urgency.
As Japan has not experienced such a crisis since the Second World War, I fully support the resolution of the European Parliament on the situation in that country.
I also call upon the EU to provide Japan with all the humanitarian, technical and financial assistance possible, including medical supplies, mattresses, tents, food, experts and specialists in radioactivity and nuclear energy ...
Expresses its most complete solidarity with the Japanese people and government and presents its sincere condolences to the victims of this threefold disaster, bearing in mind that the human losses and material damage have not yet been fully assessed; welcomes the mobilisation, courage and determination of the Japanese people and of the authorities in response to this disaster; 2.
The exemplary courage and determination shown by the Japanese people and authorities in addressing the situation should be an example for all, and one more reason for the EU not to abandon this country in the very delicate phase of its complete reconstruction.
At the same time, the natural disaster also caused an extremely serious nuclear accident, which has affected the Fukushima nuclear plant in particular.
I would therefore like to call for a discussion, preceded by a thorough analysis, on how to reduce the devastating effects of a nuclear accident on the regions and people where it occurs.
The courage and dignity of the Japanese people compels admiration and I am pleased that this House has demonstrated its support and its solidarity by means of this resolution.
This is the greatest disaster that Japan has experienced since the Second World War, and the catastrophe at Fukushima has shocked us all and forces us to review our approach to nuclear energy.
This issue has no bearing, however, despite what some may have us believe by means of a political salvage operation, on the opportunity to continue with the production of nuclear energy, an energy of the future that plays its part in the decarbonisation of our economy and that guarantees our energy independence.
The drama of Fukushima requires us above all to strengthen our requirements in the area of nuclear safety.
I support the proposals of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for a definition of common safety standards and for greater vigilance within and around nuclear power stations.
From now on, the responsibility rests with the European Union, which must take strong measures to ensure that a nuclear disaster of this magnitude will never happen in Europe.
in writing. - (SK) The enormous damage caused by the recent earthquakes and tsunami in Japan will not be cleared up overnight.
We must stand ready to provide Japan with concrete practical assistance, even after the media interest has died away.
It is right that, along with Member State governments and parliaments, the European Parliament too has given a clear signal to our friends in Japan, sorely afflicted as the country is, that we are with them and that they can rely on our help at any time.
