Situation in Belarus The next item is the statement by the Vice-President of the European Commission and EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mrs Ashton, on the situation in Belarus.
Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, the events which followed the elections in Belarus on 19 December have come as a shock to all of us: the force used by the authorities against their citizens prompted statements of concern and condemnation across the world.
However, a significant group - as many as 30 people - still face charges that could lead to very substantial prison sentences and, as honourable Members know, that group includes some presidential candidates.
Mr President, I have already condemned the repressive measures taken by the authorities in Minsk and I have called for the immediate release of all those detained on political grounds, as well as the reopening of the OSCE office in Minsk.
That reaction should give the authorities in Belarus a clear signal of our views, without isolating citizens and civil society.
Mr President, the short-term measures I have just described will, of course, have to be considered by the Foreign Affairs Council on 31 January, but it is not too early to reflect on some longer-term aspects of our relations with Belarus.
Mr President, there was no room for doubt in the minds of international observers, and there should be no room for any doubt whatsoever in our minds.
They were not fair, and so the policy that we have been conducting since 2008 with regard to the Belarusian authorities, a policy of dialogue with Belarus and an outstretched hand, cannot be continued any longer.
We should therefore support the opposition in its attempts to create a political representation here in Brussels to represent both its interests and the interests of the whole of free Belarus in its dealings with the European Union and the Member States at a political level.
Finally, we should demand the release of those who have been arrested, both the presidential candidates and the political activists, independent journalists, students and university lecturers.
We should, in my view, work towards this with Belarus' non-EU neighbours, Russia and Ukraine, and, as a parliament, try and use the opportunities provided by the Eastern Partnership and EURONEST to engage the other five countries in the Partnership in joint activities to democratise Belarus. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (PL) Mr President, I know that I only have 30 seconds.
I was trying to convey that I believe that the situation is improving in the sense that more and more people in Belarus understand that Belarus needs democracy and more and more people understand that they have to fight for democracy in Belarus.
Therefore, Madam High Representative, I would like you to support calling for a pan-European forum on the future of Belarus.
We were indeed shocked after 19 December, as many of us had already hoped that there would be a gradual opening-up of Belarus towards the European Union.
It is very worrying to hear - almost hourly - news of ongoing repression in Minsk and other parts of Belarus.
This is an organisation which has very courageously been defending human rights in Belarus.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, my group has not signed up to the compromise resolution on Belarus.
This also includes the immediate release of all political detainees.
A better approach seems to me to be to confront those who hold political power with our arguments and demands in the context of a political dialogue, not to give them the opportunity to discredit the criticisms made by those in civil society by referring to external criticism, to establish a transparent political system and to coordinate our efforts with those of all our foreign policy partners in Belarus.
Mr President, the brutal repression of any political alternative to President Lukashenko's regime since the election of 19 December 2010 has clearly reduced Minsk's room for manoeuvre in the outside world.
It is precisely this dependent relationship that demands a greater European involvement in Belarus's civil society.
The elections came and Lukashenko remains the same and the opposition is either in hospital or in jail.
I await the results of the Foreign Affairs Council on 31 January and I hope that both Lady Ashton and Commissioner Füle recommend suspension.
Finally, regarding the implications for the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly, we can no longer give Lukashenko a veto on Euronest.
Therefore, the conclusion is that Euronest should be launched as a matter of urgency. (LT) Mr President, High Representative, the European Parliament resolution on which we will vote tomorrow should send a strong message to Belarusians, the whole of Europe and the world.
Hope provides something to look forward to, hope allows people to believe that things will be better in the future, and hope is what has been very much absent from Belarus since 19 December.
The hope that the opposition would have better odds this time and the hope that the Belarusian media would present a more balanced picture to the citizens of Belarus.
This Parliament, too, could also make a contribution by sending a mission to Belarus, as soon as possible, in order to show the opposition, the free media and the NGOs there that we support them.
To conclude, the EU should give a new impetus to the neighbourhood programme.
If we do this, we will ensure that hope returns once again to the people of Belarus. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, our hopes that Belarus would move closer to democracy after the presidential elections have been bitterly disappointed.
Well, Mrs Hautala, there is one more thing to say in addition to the information you gave us about the organisation Viasna.
Lady Ashton said that we should continue helping.
People who do not respect democratic values simply have no place in a decent society. (PL) Mr President, the policy which has been conducted towards Belarus by certain European governments recently, including, unfortunately, the government of my own country, Poland, has resulted in a total disaster.
It is vital that we, the Members of the European Parliament, send a clear message to Belarus.
However, there are other countries where the transition has not been as smooth.
In the recent election, they probably took three steps backwards and no steps forward, but I think she is correct in saying we need to work with civil society, the NGOs and our international partners to bring pressure to bear on President Lukashenko to end his repression and dictatorship. (PL) Mr President, what happened in Belarus on 19 December was a violation of liberty and democratic freedoms.
We should provide assistance to those who have lost their jobs and allow students who have been thrown out of university to study in other countries.
Lukashenko is leading the country and the opposition is in gaol.
The behaviour of the last dictator in Europe shows once again that the EU has a problem when it comes to violations of human rights.
The scandal of the CIA flights or the inconsistent approach to the conflict between the territorial integrity of states and the right of self-determination of their peoples, for example, in the Balkans, have damaged the image of the EU as a champion of human rights.
Support for civil society is an absolute priority, since a genuinely civil society will bring about changes in Belarus and ensure a better future for all of Belarus. (RO) Mr President, the presidential elections on 19 December marked a step backwards, both for the development of democracy in Belarus and in relations with the EU.
Mr Lukashenko is an avid hockey fan and so are the citizens of Belarus.
I am talking here primarily about the hundreds or even thousands of Belarusian students who are currently unable to continue their studies, and I would like to make a very specific proposal, namely, that a special Erasmus programme be prepared, within the already functioning Erasmus system, targeted exclusively at Belarusian students.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 20 January 2011.
