ILO Convention supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the ILO Convention supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, by Pervenche Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs - B7-0305/2011).
Madam President, Commissioner, I am delighted that, in advance of the next General Assembly of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), we can debate this welcome initiative of the ILO proposing to the Member States of this organisation a convention supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers.
As we know, domestic work officially accounts for between 5 and 9% of all employment in the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I welcome today's discussion on a new ILO instrument for domestic workers.
Secondly, there is the question of the role of Europe 2020 in ensuring that precarious domestic jobs are transformed into decent sustainable jobs.
Lastly, EU occupational and safety and health legislation provides minimum requirements and does not, therefore, prevent any Member State from introducing more stringent measures at national level.
The Commission expects the problem of undeclared work by non-EU nationals to be dealt with in part by the Employers' Sanctions Directive 2009/52/EC, which the Member States have to transpose into national legislation by 20 July this year.
The pilot project will also involve a study to gain a better understanding of precarious work in 12 Member States, and to promote its conversion into employment relationships carrying more social rights, in particular, by looking at what the Member States can do in practical terms to encourage this transformation and identify a core of basic social rights.
I believe thanks are due to Mrs Berès for initiating it, enabling us to join the ILO initiative, on the one hand, and, on the other, making us think about all that needs to be done for a category of workers whose conditions we often do not know about and, when we do know something, it tends to be depressing.
There is, too, no doubt that this new initiative on domestic work is very important, because there is a very large number of people who do this type of work and because it also very much affects women and immigrants.
Migrants and people from more marginalised communities are also more likely to work in a domestic situation.
The value of domestic work is not included in our GDP calculations and, for that reason among others, domestic work is very often invisible and is certainly undervalued.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I, too, would like to congratulate Ms Berès for taking the initiative on this oral question and resolution.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for his answer.
Often, the workers themselves are isolated, and access to trade unions is often very difficult in this situation.
I want to raise one issue concerning Article 17 in the proposed Convention, which is about the role of agencies.
I think this is something that we really should be looking at at European level because, increasingly, it is being seen as a weak link in many of the issues that we are facing.
For this reason, the initiative in this International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention is very welcome and deserves our support.
Fourthly, these workers must be covered by a statutory social security obligation, in particular, given that this is a minimum wage sector.
Women account for 90% of the workers, and do not work in a collective, but alone, in houses.
For that, however, we need to introduce new measures into the employment systems of individual Member States, including specific regulations in the area of tax, social security, and employment and civil rights which take into account the specific nature of work performed in this way.
The second point I would like to make is that, while we have established the Europe 2020 strategy and we know that, in this Europe 2020, low-level jobs will be particularly under threat, we have to do everything here, in this world of domestic work, to ensure that specialisations are absolutely recognised.
I should like to congratulate the Chair of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mrs Berès, on this initiative which enables us to debate a very important subject.
This International Labour Organisation Convention is therefore welcome and should be supported, in order to dignify domestic work and give these women the rights that other women have. (EL) Madam President, a series of studies being carried out by the Member States illustrates that domestic workers face various problems, including low wages, discrimination, a heavy workload, conduct unbecoming on the part of employers and even sexual harassment.
As part of this endeavour, the European Union, in cooperation with the Member States, should seek to amend existing legislation, so as to cover domestic employees and, most importantly, to encourage cooperation between the Member States and exchanges of best practices. (DE) Madam President, Mr Andor, ladies and gentlemen, in Germany, domestic workers are not covered by employment protection legislation.
Article 1 should cover not only domestic work, but also household services.
I think that this category of worker is particularly vulnerable to abuse from employers.
In many Member States, economic recovery programmes have entailed a reduction in health budgets, which has also lead to many employees being made redundant in this sector.
I would also like to ask what measures the Commission is intending to take to ensure not only the necessary flexibility but also the respect for the rights of these workers. (PT) Madam President, I consider the debate we are having here important, as well as the initiative from our Chair of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the need to acknowledge the value of domestic workers, the majority of whom are women providing domestic help, cleaning and catering services, and who are commonly victims of serious exploitation and discrimination, which is even worse when they are also immigrants.
I believe that it has more responsibility, in particular, with regard to freedom of movement.
It is important to note that Member States can, of course, introduce more stringent national rules.
