Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (IT) Madam President, the aim of the Services Directive, which entered into force in December 2006, is to open up the market for service providers in the European Union and get rid of all protectionist barriers, arbitrary hindrances and any discriminatory rules.
In any case, the European Parliament has always insisted that this directive must not form a pretext for dangerous deregulation and liberalisation of the sector, thereby harming workers' rights.
I voted in favour of this report because, with regard to the implementation of the directive in question by the Member States, it puts particular emphasis on unjustified delays and failures, as well as a number of issues relating to its interpretation and application.
I will finish here, Madam President, because speaking in these circumstances is rather difficult. (PL) Madam President, development of the European services market plays an absolutely essential role in stimulating economic growth in the European Union.
Our overriding aim was to facilitate the provision of services throughout Europe.
I am thus pleased that we are starting to see examples of the directive achieving measurable results, such as the huge number of notifications of amendments to legislation that we are receiving from the Member States. (IT) Madam President, I voted with great conviction against the adoption and application of the Services Directive, also known as the Bolkestein Directive.
The aim of the directive should have been to create greater competition in Europe, assisting in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Unfortunately, however, the real aim appears to have been to beat down and attack our small and medium-sized enterprises.
We cannot allow it and I will stand shoulder to shoulder with these small and medium-sized enterprises and defend them, so that we look after our traditions and Italy's strengths. (SK) Madam President, the Services Directive currently in force requires that all EU countries eliminate bureaucratic obstacles and make life easier for entrepreneurs.
The main problem areas are the failure to comply with the scope of the directive, delays in creating points of single contact, shortcomings in administrative cooperation and differences in mutual assessment.
The report I have supported considers it very important to set up the points of single contact rapidly.
The elimination of unnecessary obstacles and delays could make a significant contribution to increased competitiveness and the creation of new jobs. (LT) Madam President, I believe that the evaluation of the Services Directive has given us a good opportunity to check whether this directive really facilitates improved development in the services sector and whether the provisions of the directive are being properly implemented in the Member States.
It is essential for there to be agreement throughout all stages of the implementation of this directive that public services should not be covered by the directive, but that it should ensure social rights and comply with the requirements of employment law.
It is clear that the Commission and the Member States must increase their efforts to set up high quality points of single contact in the Member States.
If you can sell a bottle of mineral water in the UK, you should be allowed to sell the same water in France, Germany or Italy and vice versa.
You can then find that a product that was never intended for export can be criminalised in its own nation of origin.
Let us move towards more service liberalisation throughout the EU and throughout the globe. (DE) Madam President, I would like to explain why the majority of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has abstained from voting on this directive.
However, that is only the case over longer distances.
For example, because the directive only covers journeys over 250 kilometres, there are many countries where it does not apply.
Cyprus, Malta and Luxembourg have no rights, in just the same way as some other Member States which do not have bus routes that are longer than 250 kilometres.
The free movement of people, goods and services is one of Europe's central principles.
There are some positive aspects, but also many negative aspects, and this is the reason for our abstention. (IT) Madam President, the proposal for a regulation tabled by the Commission in 2008 aims to introduce new, Europe-wide rights to protect bus and coach passengers which are similar to those applied to other means of transport, thereby assuring equal conditions of competition between carriers and the various modes of transport within the different Member States.
The final text can be considered a very satisfying and well-balanced compromise, since it succeeds in guaranteeing passenger rights without simultaneously imposing heavy burdens on carriers, which - lest we forget - are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises.
The result of the conciliation procedure can quite reasonably be considered a success for the European Parliament, since some of our main requests were incorporated, namely in terms of its scope, fundamental rights for passengers irrespective of distance, derogations and, lastly, providing for accidents, cancellations and delays with suitable forms of reimbursement, assistance and compensation for passengers. (IT) Madam President, a new season of rights is upon us, but these rights could have been more widespread.
We must be aware that at distances of less than 250 km, the rights of the most vulnerable, of disabled people, old-age pensioners, and persons with reduced mobility, are not addressed at all in this measure.
The result of this process represents a victory for Parliament and is a positive sign of our attention to citizens' needs.
We did not vote against the report because some rights are protected, such as those of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
As for the rest of it, we would ask to return to the issue as soon as possible in order to really protect our citizens. (FI) Madam President, first of all, I wish to say that it is excellent and important that we concern ourselves with the rights of our citizens.
There is a lot that is good and positive about the report on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport.
It is unfortunate that some Member States are outside this regulation and, indeed, that it applies only to journeys of distances greater than 250 kilometres.
I certainly would have preferred the ALDE line, where passenger rights would have applied to journeys of a much shorter duration.
I am, however, pleased to see that some of the basic rights in the regulation apply to passengers travelling over shorter distances.
I would have preferred, in contrast to my colleague, a threshold of 200 kilometres, as this would have enabled Ireland to exempt rural areas of my constituency.
Most rural areas are outside the 250 kilometre limit.
The level of rights being sought in terms of compensation is disproportionate to the type of service operating in rural areas.
In many cases, there is no alternative public transport service available.
Of course, we have to accept the decision that has been taken today and, hopefully, the derogation period could give the opportunity to those who are outside the 250 kilometre limit to adapt.
So, while I agree in principle, I had to abstain for the foregoing reasons. (SK) Madam President, every year, more than 70 million passengers in Europe travel by bus or coach.
Passengers will have 12 basic rights applying to any length of journey.
For small countries in particular, however, the 250 km minimum is rather extreme.
I consider the final text of the submitted regulation to be a satisfactory compromise.
I am particularly pleased about the adoption of the 12 basic rights of passengers, applying to all passengers on this form of transport, regardless of the distance.
I particularly welcome the recognition and consideration of the special needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
Guaranteeing the right to compensation for loss or damage to a wheelchair or other device providing mobility, and the training of staff on buses or coaches in the area of transport for disabled persons, are becoming important tools in the fight against discrimination and against the social exclusion of these people. (DE) Madam President, I have voted in favour of the report, because it represents a significant improvement in the current situation.
The regulation covers journeys of more than 250 kilometres and gives bus and coach passengers the right to claim compensation if journeys are cancelled, overbooked or delayed by more than two hours.
As far as the distance of 250 kilometres is concerned, there is no reason why we should not allow the new legislation to come into effect and then see how it can be improved. (LT) Madam President, firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Cancian, because the document we adopted today really is a very satisfactory and well balanced compromise.
European Union citizens will be able to feel better protected.
This agreement also improves travel conditions for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
Both from the point of view of the directive's scope as well as the incorporation of some 12 basic rights within the proposal, the compromise obtained represents an important step in protecting the rights of passengers.
The proposal takes the rights and needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility into due account, particularly with regard to non-discriminatory access to transport, the rights to compensation in the event of loss of, or damage to, mobility equipment, submission and handling of complaints, disability-related training for staff on buses or coaches, and information to be provided during the journey.
This Parliament must remember that many coach firms are privately owned, are relatively small and are under an increasing financial pressure as a result of the huge rise in fuel prices experienced over the last 12 to 18 months.
All modes of transport have now finally got their own regulation on the rights of passengers.
The scope is reasonable, even though we negotiated it on other premises, but the fact that we managed to include all Member States but two is certainly positive, as is the fact that many clauses were made obligatory, even at distances of less than 250 km, while giving up some other forms of compensation.
On the contrary, this protection is a great step forward for the civility of this compromise and we ought to be proud of that. (ET) Madam President, I am voting against this document, because the current act does not guarantee equal treatment of passengers.
One of the goals in this area is to reduce barriers to the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises.
In 2014, we will be able to check whether the principles behind the regulation have been implemented successfully. (DE) Madam President, the European Parliament has succeeded in putting in place an ambitious, long-term target in the face of opposition from the Council and the Commission, which will restrict the CO2 emissions of small vans to a maximum of 147 grams per kilometre by 2020.
This was particularly important for us, because it will not help climate change if the price of new vehicles is so prohibitive that the old vans remain on our roads and, in particular, remain a burden on the environment.
On the production line in the General Motors factory in Luton, in my constituency, I have also seen that the innovation needed for improvements comes from the factory floor.
Through a directive like this, we can help to comply with the 2020 strategy in relation to fuel efficiency because it will compel designers to produce more fuel-efficient engines, and while the cost may be big in the short term, the savings in terms of miles per gallon travelled, and also in terms of the environment, are huge. (IT) Madam President, the Council has sent us a proposal for a decision that authorises an enhanced cooperation procedure in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection.
Despite the numerous negotiations carried out so far and this morning's vote, it seems that the unanimous adoption of this regulation will be impossible.
However, reasons of legal and institutional expediency would suggest, or seem to have suggested, that we should wait for the opinion of the Court of Justice, expected in the coming days, which might not only clarify numerous technical aspects of the unitary patent system, but also highlight all the jurisdictional consequences deriving from it.
We did not choose this path and that is why I voted against. (DA) Madam President, listening to the debate here in this Chamber on enhanced European cooperation with regard to a unitary European patent, it is difficult not to sit here with a smile - an indulgent smile - on my face.
Politicians from certain countries, whose own language is, in their opinion, the most important one in the world, have claimed that we will destroy the internal market in this area if we enter into enhanced cooperation.
It costs around ten times more to obtain a patent in the EU than it does in the United States, corresponding to an annual turnover of EUR 250 million for our enterprises.
Enough is enough!
Our aim should therefore definitely be to combat discrimination against the smaller, less-populated and often poorer Member States. (IT) Madam President, we live in a market in which our enterprises operate according to global competition.
The basic premise of the reform of the language regime for patents, as announced by the Commission, is to reduce translation-related costs in order to be competitive on the markets where we compete with the United States, particularly the Asian market.
I think it would have been a better idea to start harmonising them.
Lastly, starting enhanced cooperation is not only against the spirit of the European Union, but it also harms the internal market, which is thereby subject to geographic segmentation and distortion of competition between Member States, meaning that some States will certainly find themselves worse off than others. (IT) Madam President, whilst, on the one hand, I applaud the objective achieved by Europe of equipping itself - after many years - with an important instrument such as the patent, which will finally allow the European Union to compete on level terms with other territorial organisations, I must also express my great regret that this result has been achieved to the detriment of other areas, like Italy, which has been a perennial advocate of strengthening the role of the Union.
The decision to issue the patent in just one of the three working languages of the Patent Office will actually create inequality between Italian enterprises and those countries that form part of the proposed linguistic regime.
In the meantime, 25 countries out of 27 fell into line, which has led me to abstain. (PL) Madam President, no one is satisfied with the present answers to the problem of patent protection in the EU and the Member States.
I hope that it will prove to be a key step in spurring into action the group of small and medium-sized enterprises which we frequently refer to as 'sleeping innovators'.
By giving its consent to enhanced cooperation, the European Parliament is showing just how interested it is in this particular enhanced cooperation procedure - and I would point out that this is the second time it has been applied - but it is also sending a very positive and very specific message to promote the innovation and competitiveness of our businesses.
As has already been said, 25 of the 27 Member States have chosen to go ahead with this enhanced cooperation procedure so as to create a European Union unitary patent.
The Council should have made the effort to reach a common position, and perhaps it should have done more work on using a single language, taking into account the number of registrations and the language used in the majority of them, in order to make us more competitive in our global context.
If we implement measures such as this, we shall never make progress in consolidating the European project. (SK) Madam President, if the European Union is to boost competitiveness and become a world leader in innovation, its creative potential must be adequately secured.
The EU patent system, however, suffers from many deficiencies, preventing the establishment of unitary patent protection, but also the development of the internal market, thereby reducing legal certainty for inventors and innovative firms.
These researchers certainly no longer have any need for Italian, since they have learnt English, French and German and have all the tools required to submit these patents, to the detriment of Italian products. (IT) Madam President, I am speaking in order to explain why I voted against the report today.
The creation of the patent will certainly bring advantages for the patent system in Europe, but the result would have been far better if we had gone through a different procedure.
Indeed, the current procedure is merely the latest phase in the long history of the adoption of the patent in the European Union, which goes all the way back to 1990, and has only been requested by 12 Member States.
I voted against the resolution because it is incompatible with the requirement of last resort set forth in Article 20(2) of the Treaty.
By ruling ourselves out of this decision, we in Italy will expose our enterprises to the risk of not being suitably protected in Europe and across the world.
However, we have reached a result that allows anyone submitting patents to do so in their own language.
I have attended a number of seminars here at the European Parliament in relation to innovation.
General Electric have done some surveys right across the European Union which show that most people believe that progress out of recession can only be achieved through innovation.
Therefore, I supported today's proposals. (NL) Madam President, I have abstained from voting on the Lehne report, not because I have any objections to the creation of a unitary patent protection scheme.
It remains to be seen to what extent the draft Commission regulation will allow for the use of the official languages other ​​than English, French and German.
In this case, I agree with the opinion that Article 168(4b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides a legal basis for the proposal, since the direct aim of the measures passed on this basis is to protect public health, which is the case when (and I quote) 'laying down maximum permitted levels of contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs'. (IT) Madam President, I mostly support the amendments proposed through this text, which in any case essentially does nothing more than codify previous legislation regarding the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and animal feedingstuffs.
It is therefore a measure that must inspire us all to be as vigilant as possible.
Furthermore, there should be no way to avoid the requirement to notify government authorities in the event of an accident. (PL) Madam President, regulations ensuring that foodstuffs are not contaminated by radioactive substances came into being after the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
This is a very important issue, in particular, from the point of view of public health, but it is, at the same time, a difficult subject.
Implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon means that certain regulations need to be updated, including these ones, even though there is a dispute between the European Commission and Parliament's proposals as far as the legal basis is concerned.
The debate we have held has also shown the large differences in opinion when it comes to assessing possible threats, including levels of radiation caused by accidents or those from natural sources.
The fact that an increasing proportion of the European Union's market is occupied by imported agricultural products and foodstuffs from various parts of the world should also be highlighted, since public health standards, including those ensuring that foodstuffs are not contaminated by radioactive substances, must be met. (IT) Madam President, the insertion of a new recital in the proposal for a codification of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990 laying down levels of radioactive contamination in case of radiological emergency brings the necessary ex post motivation to an existing article and justifies the right for the Council to exercise direct power in terms of adopting a regulation to promptly endorse the emergency measures proposed by the Commission.
In any case, in the light of the new rules introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, we need to clarify whether this justification provides sufficient motivation for the reservation of implementing powers to be exercised by the Council and whether those implementing powers delegated to the Council are properly defined and framed.
Citizens' interests in the effective management of post-accident situations must be guaranteed.
The measures designed for this purpose include streamlining the procedure in the event of nuclear emergency and the clear assignment to the Commission of a supervisory role, which, at the same time, clarifies the regime of its acts.
Written explanations of vote I agree with the rapporteur's position regarding the consensus needed to conclude the agreement, now with new provisions in line with the EU's development cooperation objectives, as set out in Article 208 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
On the other hand, I believe that this approach was overly focused on commercial and economic concerns, and on free trade, to the detriment of a more robust approach to development, and I welcome the new provisions, which should be included in the revised agreement, especially as regards combating poverty, aid efficiency, the Millennium Development Goals and the link between migration and development.
However, I am voting for this proposal because I believe that relations and trade with South Africa are essential for both parties.
These are very important provisions, contributing to peacekeeping and security in the region, as well as respect for human rights and the development of democracy.
The principle of aid effectiveness (as a development cooperation objective) and priority for operations, which contribute, in particular, in the fight against poverty, towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), have been added to the agreement.
Moreover, it is also important that much attention is focused on commercial, economic and free-market concerns, which should contribute to the region's economic development.
I voted for the renewal of the EU-South Africa cooperation agreement, as amended in 2009, because it introduces a new dimension to cooperation between the European Union and South Africa.
The initial 1999 agreement provided for trade cooperation, support to South Africa during its economic and social transition process, the economic integration of the country within southern Africa, and development cooperation.
Today, the agreement has been extended to the following areas: the fight against poverty, the effectiveness of development aid, the implementation of the MDGs, the fight for security, the fight against weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism.
I welcome our increased cooperation in these many new areas and am pleased with the new provisions on development that have been inserted into the revised agreement, in particular, as regards combating poverty, aid effectiveness, the Millennium Development Goals and the linkage between migration and development.
I voted in favour of this recommendation as I support the implementation of new development-related provisions in the agreement.
It is important to ensure effective monitoring by the EU authorities, as envisaged by the Treaty of Lisbon, so that it is possible to achieve the objectives of reducing and eradicating poverty in South Africa.
South Africa is a country that has been inspiring interest, aid and esteem internationally since the end of apartheid due to the way in which, despite difficulties and setbacks, it has managed to make a relatively peaceful transition from a supremacist regime to a democracy in which universal suffrage prevails.
Today, we can say that South Africa is a key geopolitical and geostrategic player in Africa, and an example to other countries that have not yet been able to free themselves from the dictatorships that are oppressing them and holding back their development.
The Agreement on Trade, Development and Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, came into force on 1 May 2004.
Although this agreement, which was concluded in Pretoria on 11 October 1999, was set to be in force indefinitely, it provided for a review within five years of its entry into force.
I therefore welcome this recommendation, which will bring an end to a long negotiation process, as the revised agreement was concluded in Kleinmond on 11 September 2009.
The consequences are plain to see, not only for developing countries, but also for EU countries such as Portugal: the weakening of productive sectors, an increase in external dependency, unemployment, poverty, etc.
I voted in favour of this document because the revised agreement makes a number of interesting changes to the original agreement, in particular - with regard to development - the following: disarmament becomes an essential element of the agreement - to be more precise - on a par with democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law; the principle of aid effectiveness (as a development cooperation objective) and priority for operations contributing, in particular, in the fight against poverty, towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), have been added.
The following are the most important aspects: peacekeeping and security in the region, as well as respect for human rights and the development of democracy.
The overwhelming support of the European Parliament for the agreement will lead to improvements in working conditions and in the healthcare system and to the reduction of poverty in South Africa.
The text was submitted to us for approval and I decided to vote in favour, since it primarily concerns itself with development in South Africa.
The European Commission is exerting an unprecedented amount of pressure on the countries of southern Africa, especially South Africa, in order to conclude harmful economic partnership agreements.
An initial Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, was concluded in Pretoria on 11 October 1999 and came into force on 1 May 2004 for an indefinite period.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has also necessitated the adoption of a new agreement, so that the EU can exercise all the rights and obligations that were previously exercised by the European Community.
The revised agreement concluded at Kleinmond in 2009 introduced a certain number of important amendments into the initial agreement, particularly the following changes in the area of development: disarmament, democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law, cooperation on disarmament issues and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
I voted in favour of the text tabled by Mrs Joly on the agreement between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa because, in the light of the new international situation that has come about over recent years, we need to revise the agreements with South Africa on trade, development and cooperation.
In terms of economic relations, the agreements bring benefits for both parties' industries.
A further aim of the revision of these agreements is to establish coordination on the fight against terrorism, partly in the light of the entry into force of the International Criminal Court, and also to open a conversation on common values and interests in areas such as migration, energy, space, transport and security.
I voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, which amends the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement (TDCA).
The EU is South Africa's main trading partner; in 2009, the EU was the destination for about 34% of total South African exports and the source of about 35% of total imports to South Africa.
These indicators suggest that the results of the first agreement concluded in 1999 can already be seen.
By comparison with the original agreement, concluded in Pretoria on 11 October 1999, this revised agreement, concluded in Kleinmond on 11 September 2009, was aimed at extending the political dialogue between the parties in important areas such as the fight against weapons of mass destruction and against terrorism, along with stepping up development cooperation, with particular emphasis on operations that contribute to the fight against poverty, in the context of achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
I therefore believe that the amendments that have been introduced are to be welcomed.
Partly as a result of my institutional roles, I think it is a priority to strengthen political dialogue with this country, particularly with regard to issues of specific interest for African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States.
In particular, I support the decision to direct a large portion of the EUR 980 million available to the EU for the period 2007-2013 to the creation of new jobs, as well as financing the construction in South Africa of the necessary infrastructure to provide basic services in terms of health and security.
Pursuing these objectives with the real involvement of civil society means proceeding doggedly along the path to achieving the Millennium Development Goals and placing the eradication of hunger and all forms of poverty above all other goals.
The review of this agreement, which was provided for therein, was concluded in 2009, and introduced important changes in development policy, in particular, cooperation on issues associated with disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the inclusion of the principle of the rule of law and human rights, the principle of aid effectiveness, particularly in matters concerning the fight against poverty, and achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The main objective of creating jobs addresses the central problem of the economic development of South Africa.
The EU, which is South Africa's most important trading partner, can provide valuable assistance in the process of economic and social transformation.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Joly on the revision of the agreement between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa, which has been in force since 2004.
In my opinion, it is essential to stress that this revision lays the foundations for improving and deepening dialogue between the European Union and South Africa on important issues such as migration, exploitation of energy sources and security.
The Commission has tabled a proposal for four agreements to Parliament.
The other two agreements are related to fisheries concessions for Iceland and Norway between 2009 and 2014, and provide for their renewal.
The funding for this five-year period (2009-2014) has more than doubled the funds available for the previous period.
In view of the enlargements of the EU and the worsening of the social and economic situation in many of its countries, as is the case with Portugal, we believe that it is important to increase these funds.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Koppa report on the Financial Mechanism relating to fisheries.
The most recent five-year period of financial contributions expired in 2009 (EUR 1.467 billion).
The Commission's current proposal includes four agreements.
These agreements provide for a package of EUR 1.8 billion, comprising a 31% increase in the EEA financial mechanism and a 22% increase in the Norwegian financial mechanism, compared to the period 2004-2009.
The EEA funds will be made available to the 12 most recent Member States, as well as Greece, Portugal and Spain.
The funds earmarked for Norway will be made available to the 12 most recent Member States.
The total package of EUR 1.8 billion represents an increase of 31% or 22% over the last five-year period.
Today, Parliament has voted in favour of the agreement proposed by the Commission regarding, on the one hand, financial mechanisms for the period 2009-2014 between the European Union and Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and Norway, and on the other hand, an agreement between the European Union and Norway.
The last 12 States to join the Union, plus Spain, Greece and Portugal, are the countries that will be able to take advantage of these funds.
I therefore voted in favour of the report, since I think that we should support economic cooperation and because we must never forget that the wellbeing of a Member State contributes to improving the economy of the whole of Europe, and thus the quality of life of its 500 million citizens.
in writing. - I voted for this proposal which gives an opportunity to strengthen the contribution of EEA and EFTA states to the reduction of economic and social disparities in the European Economic Area.
These agreements provide for an overall package of EUR 1.8 billion, comprising a 31% increase in the European Economic Area (EEA) financial mechanism and a 22% increase in the Norwegian financial mechanism.
The two protocols concerning certain fisheries concessions for Iceland and Norway for the period 2009-2014 provide for the renewal of the previous 2004-2009 protocols with unchanged concessions for Iceland and a relatively modest increase in concessions for Norway, on the basis of which Norway will renew the fish transit agreement.
This report gives a green light to the renewal of agreements relating to the European Economic Area (EEA).
Since the Agreement on the EEA entered into force in 1994, the EEA/European Free Trade Association states - currently Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway - have contributed towards reducing economic and social disparities in the EEA.
These contributions were always agreed for five-year periods, and the aim is now to renew the agreements for the 2009-2014 period.
In parallel to those negotiations, but independently of them, negotiations were also launched on the basis of the two bilateral fish protocols with Iceland and Norway, and concluded on 18 December 2009.
With regard to the outcome of the aforementioned negotiations, it is worth highlighting, in particular, the significant increase in the financial mechanism, although the position of Iceland is unchanged due to the severe crisis that it is experiencing.
As regards the agreements concerning certain fisheries concessions for Iceland and Norway for the period 2009-2014, I share the favourable opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, which highlights the modest increase in concessions for Norway, on the basis of which Norway will renew the fish transit agreement, which expired on 30 April 2009.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - This proposal gives an opportunity to: strengthen the contribution of EEA and EFTA States to the reduction of economic and social disparities in the European Economic Area; significantly increase the financial mechanism against unchanged concessions for Iceland and modestly increase the concessions for Norway.
I therefore suggested that the Committee on Fisheries give a favourable opinion on the Commission's proposal COM(2010)234.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this agreement which will strengthen the contribution of EEA-EFTA States in tackling social and economic disparities within the European Economic Area.
I have voted in favour of the agreement because this is another logical step towards harmonising cooperation between the members of the European Free Trade Association.
I am voting for this recommendation, as this horizontal agreement allows the removal of national restrictions on the current bilateral agreements between the Member States and Brazil, benefiting the entire European aviation industry.
In addition, such an agreement enables the restoration of a sound legal basis for relations between the EU and Brazil in the aviation sector, which will be an important step in strengthening EU-Brazil relations in this sector.
I foresee that this agreement will generate benefits for consumers in terms of lower fares by up to EUR 460 million, promote employment and offer new business opportunities for EU airlines.
Since the European Union has exclusive competence for certain aspects of external aviation policy, it was necessary from a legal point of view to replace a dozen bilateral agreements concluded by Member States with the Federative Republic of Brazil by agreements negotiated and concluded by the European Union.
Following approval by the Council of the European Union in 2003, the European Commission negotiated the agreement that I have decided to lend my support to today.
The agreement will pave the way for 'a comprehensive air services agreement with Brazil based on a combination of gradual market opening and regulatory cooperation and convergence'.
I think that the agreement on aviation relations between the European Union and Brazil provides a sound legal basis and marks an important first step in strengthening EU-Brazil aviation relations.
I voted in favour of this recommendation as it is an important step in strengthening relations between the EU and Brazil in the aviation sector, and it will allow them to proceed towards negotiating a comprehensive air services agreement.
This agreement, which was concluded on 14 July 2010, is aimed at replacing the provisions contained in the bilateral agreements on air services between 12 Member States and the Federative Republic of Brazil with a bilateral agreement between the EU and the same.
As with previous agreements covering the same area that have been recently adopted by Parliament, and given the specific context in which civil aviation operates, this proposal raises serious concerns about its scope and possible consequences.
Together with my Italian colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I decided to abstain in today's vote regarding relations between the European Union and Brazil on certain aspects of air services.
These same families have been waiting 31 years for justice to be done and for Cesare Battisti to serve the sentence handed down by Italy's justice system in our own prisons.
Consequently, on 5 June 2003, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with third countries in order to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with EU agreements.
The agreement was signed on 14 July 2010.
Such an agreement is expected to be capable of generating a consumer surplus (benefits in terms of lower fares) of up to EUR 460 million.
It will have a positive employment effect and is expected to offer significant new business opportunities for EU airlines as well as benefits to the travelling public.
in writing. - I voted for this Horizontal Agreement, which is not important in itself, but is an important step in strengthening EU-Brazil aviation relations, allowing Brazil and the EU to further enhance aviation cooperation and to move towards negotiating a comprehensive air services agreement between them.
My abstention in the vote on the report regarding the agreement between the European Union and the Federative Republic of Brazil on air services expresses a position that goes beyond the scope of the matter.
Extradition -procedures for which are defined in a bilateral agreement - should have been granted.
It is difficult to support international relations, such as those defined in the reports voted on by Parliament, with a country that does not respect agreements and which, above all, takes a stand on the fundamental right to the protection of life.
The EU has always advocated free competition.
The mandate granted to the Commission on 15 October 2010 to negotiate a comprehensive air services agreement with Brazil based on a combination of gradual market opening and regulatory cooperation and convergence therefore makes perfect sense.
This agreement gives all EU air carriers non-discriminatory access to links with Brazil and replaces or complements the provisions of the current 14 bilateral air service agreements between the Member States and Brazil.
This is an important first step in strengthening relations between the EU and Brazil in the aviation sector, which has allowed them to continue to strengthen their cooperation at this level and proceed towards negotiating a comprehensive air services agreement between Brazil and the EU.
All consumers benefit from this new agreement, which offers the possibility of lower fares on air transport to Brazil.
I abstained on the recommendation tabled by Mrs Macovei, together with the two other reports, in the light of the conduct of the Brazilian authorities over the Cesare Battisti case.
By voting for this report, we are giving the necessary favourable opinion of the European Parliament on the international agreement concluded between the EU and Brazil.
It is a horizontal agreement with Brazil which will establish a solid legal basis for relations between the EU and Brazil in the aviation sector.
This is an important first step in strengthening relations between the EU and Brazil in the aviation sector and will allow both parties to continue to strengthen their cooperation at this level and proceed towards negotiating a comprehensive air services agreement.
It is thought that this agreement may generate benefits for consumers in terms of lower fares by up to EUR 460 million.
in writing. - The horizontal agreement with Brazil will restore a sound legal basis for the EU's aviation relations with Brazil.
Such an agreement is expected to be able to generate a consumer surplus (benefits in terms of lower fares) of up to EUR 460 million.
It will have a positive employment effect and is expected to offer significant new business opportunities for EU airlines as well as benefits to the travelling public.
This agreement, which I believe to be the first step of many towards a new EU civil aviation policy with Brazil, is to establish the general framework for developing relations in this field.
It is called a horizontal agreement because it creates a solid legal basis for a number of aspects of civil aviation between the two parties, by replacing the traditional bilateral agreements with provisions for general and uniform implementation across the entire EU territory provided for in this agreement.
For the above reasons, I voted in favour of the document.
With regard to the draft Council decision (07853/2010), the draft agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Iceland, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein on supplementary rules in relation to the External Border Fund for the period 2007-2013, and to the request for consent submitted by the Council in line with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, within the legal framework and according to a recommendation made by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I support the conclusion of this agreement.
I support the agreement between the European Community and Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein on supplementary rules in relation to the External Borders Fund for the period 2007-2013.
The countries involved in the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis should participate in the External Borders Fund, in line the decision establishing this fund.
This agreement should therefore provide for the implementation of standards in the territories of the countries involved, so as to allow the Commission to take ultimate responsibility for implementing the budget of the fund in these states.
It takes into account aspects at the level of financial management and control of the fund and also establishes the provisions concerning financial contributions from these countries to the fund's budget.
I would also stress the choice that Liechtenstein has made, through a joint declaration, not to participate in the fund, although this does not affect its obligation to contribute financially to it, since it was established to share the burden and provide financial support for the implementation of the Schengen acquis in the field of external border and visa policy.
Broadly speaking, this agreement concerns the participation of these countries in the External Borders Fund, arising from their participation in the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis.
The final adoption of the agreement by the Council will follow Parliament's vote in favour.
This report follows the agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein on supplementary rules in relation to the External Borders Fund for the period 2007-2013.
It is connected to existing agreements or those which are still being implemented on the movement and freedom of people between these states and EU countries.
Thus, with the aim of supporting the monitoring of external borders, particularly in the field of immigration, the EU wants to assign, under certain conditions, Union support from the External Borders Fund for the period 2007-2013.
in writing. - I voted for this agreement which allows states associated with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen Agreement to participate in the External Borders Fund for the 2007 to 2013 period.
Looking from the point of view of a true European Union - in political, economic and, above all, geographic terms - I think it is necessary and fundamentally important to vote in favour of this proposal, since countries like Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, as well as Switzerland, are geographically located in Europe.
I therefore think that a single border management policy should be implemented in order to facilitate integration and movement from one country to another.
This would also facilitate and stimulate tourism and the free movement of transport and people.
Under the new powers granted to Parliament by the Treaty of Lisbon, it has become necessary to adopt the draft Council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Iceland, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein on supplementary rules in relation to the External Border Fund for the period 2007-2013.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs has recommended the adoption of this agreement.
The agreement envisages the participation in the External Borders Fund of third countries involved in the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis.
This participation can come about through further agreements which should be reached in order to clarify the necessary provisions for this participation, including provisions on the protection of the EU's financial interests and the authorisation of the Court of Auditors to carry out the audit.
The agreement was reached between the parties, and given that there were no critical comments in any of the opinions expressed, I voted in favour of this resolution.
This proposal relates to the conclusion of an agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein, the precise aim of which is the definition of supplementary rules on the participation of these countries in the aforementioned fund.
I believe that this merits my support, in line with the recommendation of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
in writing. - In line with our position during the vote in the LIBE Committee (the lead committee), we in the Verts/ALE Group decided to vote against this proposal.
I have voted in favour of the agreement, because these states are not a problem in terms of quality or reliability and, therefore, do not represent a security risk for the EU.
The recommendation concerns the conclusion of an agreement with Schengen-associated third countries, in this case, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein.
These additions are sensible, which is why I have voted in favour of concluding the agreement.
I am voting for this report, given that the Schengen area already allows free movement within a territory of 42 673 km of external sea borders and 7 721 km of land borders, covering 25 countries and 400 million people.
The gradual expansion of this area has allowed third countries that have special relationships with the EU to take part in Schengen cooperation, and for the Swiss Confederation to belong to the Schengen acquis from 1 March 2008.
A microstate located between Switzerland and Austria, Liechtenstein has an area of 160 km² and a population of 35 000.
I voted in favour of this recommendation, according to which the signature of the protocol between the European Union, the European Community, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the accession of the Principality of Liechtenstein to the Agreement between the European Union, the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis took place on 28 February 2008.
Switzerland joined the Schengen area alone, on 12 December 2008, with the abolition of border control at land borders, followed by the abolition of border checks on intra-Schengen flights at airports on 29 March 2009.
The 41 kilometres that separate the two countries became an external Schengen border.
I welcome the new rules introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon allowing the European Parliament to be more closely informed about international agreements.
However, the process did not occur as expected, in particular, due to the reservations expressed by two Member States, Germany and Sweden, concerning issues related to tax evasion.
The accession of Switzerland alone made it necessary to introduce controls in areas where, for more than a hundred years, there had been no real border, and the 41 km separating Switzerland and Liechtenstein became an external border.
Switzerland joined the Schengen area alone, on 12 December 2008.
This accession made it necessary to put in place border controls for the first time between Liechtenstein and Switzerland at places where there had been no real border for a century.
This recommendation advises Parliament to approve the establishment of a protocol between the European Union, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the accession of the Principality of Liechtenstein to the agreement between the European Union, the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on Switzerland's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis, which was concluded on 28 February 2008.
Switzerland's accession to the Schengen area in 2008 created a problem for movement between the two states, transforming the border between them into an external one, and the aim is now to resolve this problem.
Thus, in view of the advantages that arise from the entry into force of this protocol, there is nothing to prevent its adoption.
The Schengen Agreement dates back to 1985, when it was concluded between Germany, Belgium, France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.
The agreement and the subsequent convention adopted in 1990 are aimed at abolishing systematic controls on common borders and introducing a system where people can move freely.
The Schengen Convention abolished checks at the internal borders of the signatory states and created a single external border with common rules on external border controls, a common visa policy, police and judicial cooperation and the establishment of the Schengen Information System (SIS).
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Coelho report.
Whilst Scotland is not a part of the Schengen area, we do opt in to certain parts of the Schengen acquis.
The Scottish Government has been actively involved in this area at Council level and I am happy to support that work.
I voted in favour of the recommendation, according to which the signature of the protocol between the European Union, the European Community, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the accession of the Principality of Liechtenstein to the EU Agreement on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis took place on 28 February 2008.
Switzerland joined the Schengen area alone, on 12 December 2008, with the abolition of border control at land borders, followed by the abolition of border checks on intra-Schengen flights at airports on 29 March 2009.
I welcome the new rules introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon allowing the European Parliament to be more closely informed about international agreements.
The gradual expansion of the Schengen area has led third countries that have particular relations with the EU to take part in Schengen cooperation.
The precondition for association with the Schengen acquis by non-EU countries is an agreement on free movement of persons between those states and the EU.
Yet, despite having become a member of the European Economic Area as early as 1995 and having progressively brought itself into line with European laws by transposing many directives into domestic law, the Principality of Liechtenstein had not yet begun negotiations for accession to the Schengen agreements.
Furthermore, a series of implementation rules have been introduced for the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon dealing with international agreements, so as to give the European Parliament a more assertive role in terms of their communication and adoption.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
Liechtenstein has been steadily integrating into the European trade area since its accession to the European Economic Area (EEA) in 1995.
The jurisdiction has now implemented 98.4% of EU directives into domestic law.
The accession of new countries to the Schengen Information System (SIS) is essential for achieving a Europe without borders.
Liechtenstein has been part of the European Economic Area since 1995 and has been steadily integrating into the European trade area.
By acceding to this agreement, Liechtenstein will become part of the Schengen acquis.
The Schengen Agreement was concluded on 14 June 1985 between Germany, Belgium, France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.
Schengen cooperation is now integrated into the European Union legal and institutional framework and comprises 25 Schengen Member States, along with three countries that are associated with the EEA: Norway, Iceland and Switzerland.
The 41 km that separate the two countries became an external Schengen border.
I welcome the new rules introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, enabling Parliament to have an active role in adopting these agreements.
For all of the above reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
It is indeed important for these countries to participate in the External Borders Fund for the period 2007-2013, in accordance with current measures and agreements.
In order to bring about an ever more united Europe that does not, however, lose sight of practicality, their participation will be regulated by supplementary rules that will also ensure the protection of the European Union's financial interests and the power of audit of the Court of Auditors.
I have voted in favour of the agreement concerning the accession of Liechtenstein to the agreement on the Schengen acquis, because this is a logical step forward which will not present us with any problems.
I welcome the renewed referral to Parliament of the draft Council decision and thus, the continuation of the negotiations on the association of Liechtenstein with the Dublin agreement with Switzerland.
Although it expressed its interest, Liechtenstein was left out, since it had not yet concluded a savings taxation agreement with the European Community.
In view of the new rules of the Treaty of Lisbon, which allow Parliament to be associated with the conclusion of international agreements in a much closer way, as well as the fact that Liechtenstein has concluded the agreement in question, which has been in force since 1 July 2005, I support Parliament's decision to give its consent to the conclusion of this protocol.
On 27 February 2006, the Council gave the Commission the relevant authorisation to enter into negotiations with Liechtenstein and Switzerland.
On 21 June 2006, negotiations were finalised and the draft protocol on Liechtenstein's accession to the Dublin agreement with Switzerland was initialled.
In 2006, the Council gave the Commission the relevant authorisation to enter into negotiations with Liechtenstein and Switzerland.
I voted in favour of this document, which states that the agreement of 2004 concluded with the Swiss Confederation concerning the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the state responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a Member State or in Switzerland (the 'Dublin agreement with Switzerland') provides for the possible association of Liechtenstein with the Dublin acquis by means of a protocol.
in writing. - I welcome the renewed referral to Parliament of the draft Council decision and thus, the continuation of the negotiations on the association of Liechtenstein with the Dublin agreement with Switzerland.
The agreement concluded on 26 October 2004 with the Swiss Confederation concerning the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the state responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a Member State or in Switzerland, known as the Dublin agreement with Switzerland, provides for the possible association of Liechtenstein with the Dublin acquis by means of a protocol.
The final conclusion of the agreement has not happened before now for various reasons: firstly, because other agreements under negotiation with Liechtenstein had not been concluded; secondly, because there was a dispute on the legal basis, and later because of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I welcome this fact and am voting in favour of the present report.
We therefore voted against the proposal, as we did in the LIBE Committee.
At the same time as simplifying the procedure, we have also achieved further harmonisation.
in writing. - (PT) I am voting for this recommendation, given that the current EU-Brazil agreement grants a reciprocal visa waiver for travel for the purpose of tourism and business to all Brazilian and EU citizens, including the nationals of the four Member States not enjoying visa-free travel to Brazil at present.
As the agreement supplements, rather than replacing, the existing agreements between several Member States and Brazil, which cover travel for purposes other than tourism and business or paid activity, there is no reason why it should not be concluded.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Federative Republic of Brazil on short-stay visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports.
It should be noted that, due to the common visa policy and the exclusive competence of the European Union in this area, only the Union can negotiate and conclude a visa waiver agreement, and not the individual Member States.
Importantly, in order to safeguard equal treatment of all EU citizens, a provision has been included in the agreement stating that Brazil may only suspend or terminate it in respect of all the EU Member States.
Reciprocally, the Union may also suspend or terminate the agreement only in respect of all its Member States.
I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that we must ensure the implementation of the principle of reciprocity in EU visa policy.
Brazil, however, still requires a visa from the nationals of four Member States (Estonia, Cyprus, Malta and Latvia) to enter its territory.
The other Member States have bilateral visa agreements with Brazil, allowing their nationals to enter Brazil for short stays without a visa.
Due to the exclusive external competence of the European Union in this area, only it can negotiate and conclude a visa waiver agreement, and not the individual Member States.
I consider it essential to approve the conclusion of this visa waiver agreement, so that all EU citizens, including those of Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus, can travel without a visa to Brazil for purposes of tourism and business, in the same way in which citizens of Brazil can already travel visa-free to all EU Member States.
Although Brazilian citizens can travel to all EU Member States without having to obtain a visa, in the case of a short stay, there are, however, four EU Member States - Estonia, Cyprus, Malta and Latvia - whose citizens require a visa in order to enter Brazilian territory.
Although all the other Member States have negotiated bilateral agreements with Brazil so as to ensure a short-stay visa waiver, at present, however, it is no longer possible for the Member States to conclude this type of agreement on an individual basis.
On 8 November 2010, an agreement was therefore concluded between the EU and Brazil, granting a reciprocal visa waiver for travel for the purpose of tourism and business for all Brazilian and EU citizens.
I voted in favour of this recommendation as it safeguards equal treatment of all European citizens under the common visa policy between the EU and Brazil.
With regard to EU-Brazil relations, it should be remembered that the strategic importance of this country has long justified the establishment of a specific delegation, as already happens with the other countries making up the quartet of Brazil, Russia, India and China, as well as with countries that are objectively less important in the international arena.
in writing. - (PT) Under the terms of Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, Brazilian citizens can travel to all Member States of the European Union without a visa, provided that this is for short stays.
Nationals of the following countries find themselves in this situation: Estonia, Cyprus, Malta and Latvia.
In order for these citizens to be on an equal footing with the other inhabitants of the EU and Brazil, it is necessary to establish an agreement between the EU and Brazil.
Together with my Italian colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I decided to abstain in today's vote regarding relations between the European Union and Brazil on short-stay visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports.
These same families have been waiting 31 years for justice to be done and for Cesare Battisti to serve the sentence handed down by Italy's justice system in our own prisons.
This matter concerns the extension of a common passport to EU countries that are still subject to short-stay waivers.
The report is in favour of approving the conclusion of this agreement on visa exemption as soon as possible, in order that all EU citizens, including citizens of Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus, can travel to Brazil for tourism and business purposes, just as Brazilian citizens can already travel without a visa to all EU Member States.
The infamous volcanic ash crisis occurred precisely when the airlines, and its passengers of course, were coping with the effects of a very difficult recession.
A country with a rapidly developing tourism sector, this number can only rise.
The main achievement of this is the removal of nationality restrictions in the existing bilateral agreements between Member States and Brazil.
This is an extremely important first step in strengthening EU-Brazil aviation relations which has allowed Brazil and the EU to move towards negotiating a comprehensive air transport agreement. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170) I abstained in the final vote on the report by Mrs Macovei, as I also did on the reports by Mrs Ţicău and Mr Enciu, in order to express my disappointment in the conduct of the Brazilian Government over the extradition of the terrorist, Cesare Battisti.
The agreements on visa waivers and air services confirm the good relations between Brazil and the European Union.
During the meeting of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE), I asked that we might hear from the Brazilian Ambassador to the European Union in order to discuss some fundamental issues such as the respect of human rights, the fight against terrorism, and views on freedom and security in Europe and Brazil.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Federative Republic of Brazil on short-stay visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports.
In accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, Brazilian nationals can travel to all Member States of the European Union without a visa for short stays.
Brazil, however, still requires a visa from the nationals of four Member States (Estonia, Cyprus, Malta and Latvia) to enter its territory.
The other Member States have bilateral visa agreements with Brazil, allowing their nationals to enter Brazil for short stays without a visa.
Due to the common visa policy and the exclusive competence of the European Union in this area, only the Union can negotiate and conclude a visa waiver agreement, and not the individual Member States.
It is essential to approve the conclusion of this visa waiver agreement, so that all EU citizens, including those of Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus, can travel without a visa to Brazil for purposes of tourism and business, in the same way in which citizens of Brazil can already travel visa-free to all EU Member States.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Parliament consenting to the conclusion of this visa waiver agreement as soon as possible, so that all EU citizens, including those of Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus, can travel without a visa to Brazil for purposes of tourism and business, in the same way that citizens of Brazil can already travel visa-free to all EU Member States.
My abstention in the vote on the report regarding the agreement between the European Union and the Federative Republic of Brazil on short-term visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports expresses a position that goes beyond the scope of the matter.
Extradition -procedures for which are defined in a bilateral agreement - should have been granted.
It is difficult to support international relations, such as those defined in the reports voted on by Parliament, with a country that does not respect agreements and which, above all, takes a stand on the fundamental right to the protection of life.
in writing. - (PT) All European Union citizens who want to travel to Brazil for tourism and business purposes will not require a visa for stays of up to three months, just as Brazilian citizens can already travel without a visa to all EU countries, in line with the agreement that has just been adopted by Parliament.
This agreement will mainly benefit citizens of Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus, who still need a visa to enter Brazil.
The length of stay in the Schengen area is limited to three months during any six-month period.
in writing. - I voted in favour because I consider it essential to help Brazilian people to settle the huge territories.
in writing. - (PT) Brazilian citizens can travel to all Member States of the European Union without a visa, provided that this is for short stays, under the terms of Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001.
The other Member States have concluded bilateral agreements directly with Brazil.
In order to address this, and given the exclusive external remit of the EU in this area, the Council has adopted a decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a short-stay visa waiver agreement between the EU and Brazil.
The current EU-Brazil agreement, for which I voted, grants a reciprocal visa waiver for travel for the purpose of tourism and business to all Brazilian and EU citizens, including the nationals of the four Member States that do not enjoy visa-free travel to Brazil at present.
The agreement does not replace but supplements the existing bilateral agreements between several Member States and Brazil, which cover travel for purposes other than tourism or business, such as for students and researchers.
in writing. - The present EU-Brazil agreement gives a reciprocal visa waiver for travel for the purpose of tourism and business, as defined in the agreement, for all Brazilian and EU citizens, including the nationals of the four Member States not enjoying visa-free travel to Brazil at present.
The category of persons travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity is also excluded from the scope of this agreement.
In order to safeguard equal treatment of all EU citizens, a provision has been included in the agreement stating that Brazil may suspend or terminate it only in respect of all the EU Member States.
Reciprocally, the Union may also suspend or terminate the agreement only in respect of all its Member States.
in writing. - (PT) The Treaty of Lisbon established that the conclusion of agreements on the common policy on visas with third countries is the exclusive remit of the EU.
Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 already allows Brazilian citizens to travel to all Member States of the European Union without a visa.
The length of stay in the Schengen area is limited to three months during any six-month period.
I am voting in favour of this agreement as I believe that it is essential to avoid discrimination between citizens of different Member States, and to properly implement the reciprocity principle, which is one of the European Union's guiding principles.
In the explanatory statement, the rapporteur notes that two third countries, namely Canada and the United States, are still imposing visa obligations; on three Member States in the case of Canada, and on four Member States in the case of the United States.
I believe that the measures taken recently by Parliament, such as Written Declaration 89/2010, will have the intended effect and bring about a change in the visa policies of the United States and Canada.
I am voting for this recommendation because, under Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, Brazil is not included in the list of countries whose citizens can cross the external borders of the EU without a visa.
In addition, the existing bilateral agreements between the Member States and Brazil are still ensured, as they include some categories of passengers that are not covered by the EU-Brazil agreement.
I also agree with the rapporteur's position in stating that this agreement should serve as an example for reciprocity with other countries, namely, the US and Canada.
To ensure equal treatment of all EU citizens as regards visa-free travel, Article 8 of the agreement provides that Brazil can suspend or terminate the agreement only in respect of all Member States of the Union and, reciprocally, the EU may suspend or terminate the agreement only with respect to all Member States.
This visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports represents a step forward in the establishment of full reciprocal visa exemption in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 539/2001.
This agreement will waive the visa requirement for Brazil for holders of diplomatic, service and official passports and for citizens in four Member States, namely, Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus.
I believe that the agreement marks a significant advance towards establishing full visa reciprocity for all EU citizens in relation to third countries.
The efforts aimed at ensuring full reciprocity should continue in order to waive the visa requirement for Canada and the US for citizens from five Member States: Romania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Cyprus and Poland.
I voted in favour of this recommendation as it represents progress towards full and reciprocal exemption from visa requirements during short stays for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports between the EU and Brazil.
The signing of this agreement should serve as an example to other countries, namely the US and Canada, which continue to require visas for certain EU Member States.
In light of the resolution that we voted on today relating to the agreement to be signed between the European Union and the Federative Republic of Brazil on short-stay visa waiver for holders of common passports, there is even more reason for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports to also benefit from this arrangement.
Reciprocity in this type of agreement is fundamental and important, so as to ensure that such waivers are not restricted by administrative or bureaucratic requirements which could put the legitimate expectations of citizens in jeopardy.
Under the terms of Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, Brazilian citizens can travel to all Member States of the European Union without a visa, provided that this is for short stays.
Nationals of the following countries find themselves in this situation: Estonia, Cyprus, Malta and Latvia; which means that the principle of reciprocity is not being respected.
In 2008, the Council adopted a decision authorising the Commission to negotiate the signing of an agreement between the EU and Brazil that would put an end to violations of the principle of reciprocity.
I therefore applaud this initiative, which will guarantee equality of treatment for all European Union citizens, respecting the principle of reciprocity in full.
Together with my Italian colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I decided to abstain in today's vote regarding relations between the European Union and Brazil on short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports.
These same families have been waiting 31 years for justice to be done and for Cesare Battisti to serve the sentence handed down by Italy's justice system in our own prisons.
Brazil forms part of the so-called positive list of countries whose citizens are exempt from visa requirements when they cross the external borders of the European Union.
In line with the principle of reciprocity, which underpins this regulation, all EU citizens should enjoy a similar right when they travel to Brazil.
Until now, the principle of reciprocity has been applied through bilateral visa waiver agreements concluded between Brazil and Member States on an individual basis.
The EU-Brazil visa waiver agreement, which does not replace the other bilateral agreements signed with different Member States, now covers travel for tourism or business purposes by holders of diplomatic, service or official passports.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because the agreement gives reciprocal access to short-stay, visa-free travel for all EU and Brazilian citizens holding a diplomatic, service or official passport.
To ensure equal treatment of all EU citizens, Article 8 of the agreement provides that Brazil can suspend or terminate the agreement only in respect of all Member States of the Union and, reciprocally, the EU may suspend or terminate the agreement only with respect to all Member States.
This visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports represents a step forward in the establishment of full reciprocal visa exemption in accordance with Regulation No 539/2001.
These agreements will ensure the application of the principle of reciprocity regarding visa wavers between the EU and Brazil.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
Visa exemption for travel purposes other than those stipulated in the agreement is still possible under the provisions of bilateral agreements signed by Brazil with 23 of the 27 Member States.
The agreement takes into account the situation of Member States that do not yet fully apply the Schengen acquis.
As long as these Member States (Cyprus, Bulgaria and Romania) are not part of the Schengen area, the visa waiver confers a right on Brazilian citizens to stay for three months on the territory of each of them, irrespective of the period calculated for the entire Schengen area.
My abstention in the vote on the report regarding the agreement between the European Union and the Federative Republic of Brazil on short-term visa waivers for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports expresses a position that goes beyond the scope of the matter.
Extradition -procedures for which are defined in a bilateral agreement - should have been granted.
It is difficult to support international relations, such as those defined in the reports voted on by Parliament, with a country that does not respect agreements and which, above all, takes a stand on the fundamental right to the protection of life.
All European Union citizens who want to travel to Brazil for tourism and business purposes will not require a visa for stays of up to three months, just as Brazilian citizens can already travel without a visa to all EU countries, under the agreement that has now been approved by the European Parliament.
This agreement will mainly benefit the citizens of Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus, who still needed a visa to enter Brazil.
With the approval of this agreement, all EU citizens - including citizens of Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus, for whom Brazil continued to require a visa - will be able to enter the country without a visa for tourism and business purposes, just as Brazilian citizens can already travel without a visa to all EU Member States.
The length of stay is limited to three months during any six-month period within the Schengen area.
This report analyses the EU-Brazil visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic, service and official passports.
Formal signature of the agreement, on behalf of the Union and of Brazil, took place in Brussels on 8 November 2010.
This visa waiver agreement does not replace the other bilateral agreements signed with different Member States, but supplements them.
However, the agreement concluded by the Union will take precedence over the bilateral agreements in the areas covered by these, namely, travel for tourism and business purposes.
I welcome the clauses on reciprocity between Brazilian nationals and EU citizens, and the guarantee of equality of treatment for all EU citizens.
The visa exemption for travel purposes other than those stipulated in the agreement can still be realised under the provisions of bilateral agreements signed by Brazil with 23 of the 27 Member States.
The agreement takes into account the situation of Member States that do not yet fully apply the Schengen acquis.
As long as these Member States (Cyprus, Bulgaria and Romania) are not part of the Schengen area, the visa waiver confers a right on citizens of Brazil to stay for three months on the territory of each of those Member States independently of the period calculated for the whole Schengen area.
Brazil forms part of the 'positive list' of countries whose citizens are exempt from visa requirements when crossing the external borders of the European Union.
Until now, this policy of reciprocity has been applied through bilateral agreements between Brazil and Member States.
The two agreements do not replace the bilateral agreements signed between the Member States and Brazil; they simply complement them.
I believe it to be important for this practice of reciprocity in visa waiver agreements to be applied to other third countries, in order to eliminate the existing discrimination, particularly with regard to the US and Canada.
Even though I support the content of this agreement, I decided to abstain in the vote in order to protest against the political choices that the Brazilian Government has been taking for some time with regard to Cesare Battisti.
It is important to note the conditions for non-application of the country of origin principle in certain matters or activities, in particular, with regard to different legislation contained within other EU instruments and to the set of guarantees that the administering state should provide for posted workers.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament resolution on the implementation of the Services Directive, which entered into force in 2006.
The aim of this directive is to open up the market for service providers in the European Union, phase out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfil the principle of freedom of movement, the basis for the common market.
The directive covers various services, whose gross domestic product (GDP) accounts for 40% of EU GDP.
We expect the implementation of this directive to potentially bring a profit of up to EUR 140 billion and for EU GDP to grow by 1.5%.
According to European Commission data, 22 EU Member States have established such PSCs, but only 17 of these have e-government portals and these also vary greatly across the different Member States.
It must be emphasised that without properly functioning points of single contact, consumers will not receive all the information, and this will prevent us from achieving the objectives laid down by the directive.
In the negotiations preceding the adoption of the directive, Parliament has already shown that it can play a crucial role.
Consequently, I think that Parliament should provide monitoring of the process of implementation of the directive by Member States.
European service providers must be able to offer their activities throughout the European Union, without being held back by bureaucratic hindrances.
I hope that the potential advantages of these procedures are assessed as soon as possible, otherwise high bureaucratic costs will persist.
This was not about assessing the implementation of the Services Directive adopted by Parliament in 2006, since it is still far too early for that.
This was about not only highlighting the importance, both economic and social, of this opening of the services sector in Europe (the areas covered account for 40% of European Union GDP and jobs, and the potential for growth would be between 0.6 and 1.5% of GDP), but also emphasising the fundamental components of the directive's transposition.
Firstly, the points of single contact (PSC).
These PSCs are the key to the success of the Services Directive.
Secondly, the scope of the directive: I believe that we must hold a genuine political debate at European level on what we mean by services of general interest and the rules that we wish to apply to them.
The aim of the Services Directive is to make it significantly easier for self-employed persons and small and medium-sized companies in particular to pursue their activities, develop new areas of business and also recruit new staff in other Member States.
The services sector, which accounts for 40% of EU GDP, is particularly important for economic growth and for combating unemployment.
This directive is an essential step towards a single market for services, which should enable enterprises, and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, to provide better services at a competitive price throughout the internal market and to unlock the enormous economic and job-creation potential of the European internal market in services.
I believe that the Commission must closely monitor the application of the directive in the Member States and issue regular implementation reports in order to remove the remaining obstacles in the services sector and to unlock its economic potential.
The Services Directive, adopted in December 2006, puts the principle of free movement into practice, with the aim of creating a common market for services within the European Union.
A fully functioning single market for services is essential for Europe's economic recovery, representing more than 70% of jobs and of net job creation within the single market.
Gains at a European Union level could reach a total of between EUR 60 and 140 billion, which represents potential growth of between 0.6 and 1.4% of GDP.
The application of the Services Directive is the chance, in my opinion, to highlight its shortcomings, particularly with regard to its scope.
Although I regret that this is not in the final text, I congratulate Mrs Gebhardt, who has managed to mention these issues in her report on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, which focused mainly on mutual evaluation and the points of single contact.
Paragraph 45 mentions the need for a legislative framework, admittedly at a sectoral level, and recalls the commitment made by Mr Barnier in his recent communication to submit proposals on SGIs in 2011.
The European Services Directive entered into force in December 2006 with the ambitious objective of opening up the market for service providers in the European Union, phasing out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfilling the principle of freedom of movement of goods and services in the Union.
According to the provisions of the directive, European service providers must be able to work without bureaucratic hindrance anywhere in the European Union.
In particular, delays have been detected in the process of implementing the directive, as well as considerable problems of interpretation regarding the scope of its application.
I voted in favour of this report, because the aim of the Services Directive is to open up the market for service providers in the European Union, phase out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfil the principle of freedom of movement, the basis for the common market.
In principle, the scope of the Services Directive covers all commercial services offered by a service provider established in a Member State.
There is a need not only to draw a clear distinction between the services coming under this directive and services of general interest, but also to safeguard services of general economic interest by means of framework legislation.
The Services Directive will not lead, in any way, to deregulation or liberalisation of the services sector, as indicated by some speculation.
Its purpose is to ensure access to national markets in such a way that arbitrary barriers are phased out and any rules which are maintained in Member States are proportionate and non-discriminatory.
Parliament even insisted on this point when presenting its view to the Council.
Article 16 states that no Member State is prevented from imposing requirements with regard to the provision of a service activity, where they are justified for reasons of public policy, public security, public health or the protection of the environment.
There is a need not only to draw a clear distinction between the services coming under this directive and services of general interest, but also to safeguard services of general economic interest by means of a legislative framework with this in mind.
The aim of the Services Directive, which entered into force in December 2006, is to open up the market for service providers in the European Union by getting rid of all protectionist barriers, arbitrary hindrances and any discriminatory rules.
In addition, Parliament has always insisted that this directive must not form a pretext for dangerous deregulation and liberalisation of the sector.
These activities represent 40% of GDP and jobs within the European Union, and are an essential sector in terms of economic growth and combating unemployment.
It is important to consolidate the enormous potential for economic development and job creation that the European internal market for services represents, as it constitutes an essential step towards a real internal market for services, which should enable businesses and, in particular, SMEs, to provide citizens with better quality services at competitive prices throughout the entire internal market.
Parliament is voting on the implementation of the Services Directive, the withdrawal of which had been promised back when it was still called the Bolkestein Directive.
The European Parliament is now deciding whether or not it was transposed properly in the Member States.
Services account for 40% of European Union GDP and jobs, with significant differences between Member States.
The protection of markets and workers, as contributors to the wealth of our country and our continent, is imperative, but the European Union, as ever, opposes that idea.
I voted in favour of this report, as I believe that the implementation of the Services Directive by Member States has so far been partial and limited.
Despite this directive being one of the most important European laws, with the aim of opening up the services sector to free movement within the European Union, there is still a long way to go.
There is a need to guarantee that this legislation, approved more than three years ago, is correctly implemented, particularly with regard to the effective creation of 'points of contact', which any citizen seeking to sell services in another country can use to obtain the necessary information.
The purpose of Directive 2006/123/EC on services in the internal market is to open up the market to service providers in the European Union, phase out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfil the principle of free movement, aiming to achieve a real internal market for the sector.
The services sector represents 40% of GDP and employment within the Union, and has enormous potential for growth and job creation, particularly within small and medium-sized enterprises.
The online portal, with all of the necessary administrative information, is only functioning in 22 states, and of these 22, it is only possible to carry out the necessary procedures electronically in 14 of them.
There is a need to guarantee and monitor the correct application of this directive by Member States, with the aim of eliminating arbitrary barriers and/or making the rules that continue to exist in the Member States proportional and non-discriminatory.
This draft resolution refers to the implementation of Directive 2006/123/EC on services in the internal market.
Directive 2006/123/EC was approved with the objective of doing away with the bureaucracy restricting service activities in the Member States.
However, it can be seen that not all Member States are implementing this directive, due to certain aspects that they consider have not been properly clarified.
We voted against this report, in keeping with all our earlier positions relating to the infamous Bolkestein Directive and its unacceptable aims of facilitating the liberalisation of services, including public services, to favour the interests of economic and financial groupings within the European Union, at a cost of increased unemployment and inferior services provided to the respective users, as is already plainly visible within sectors that have gone down this road.
This report seeks to put pressure on Member States that have not advanced as rapidly as the majority of Members of the European Parliament would like - to protect the interests of European economic groupings - in transposing Directive 2006/123/EC on services in the internal market.
This directive came into force on 28 December 2006 and aims, as stated within this report, 'to open up the market to service providers in the European Union, phase out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfil the principle of free movement, the basis for the common market'.
The Bolkestein Directive has fallen behind schedule because the Member States are said to have taken too long to transpose it and to have applied it incorrectly.
Those that are actually excluded today have simply been put on the back-burner: every three years, the Commission can suggest getting rid of the exemptions.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report on the basis that services account for 70% of all jobs and for all net job creation in the single European market and represent the most important source of foreign direct investment.
For these reasons, proper implementation of the Services Directive should remain a top priority for the Commission.
Therefore, the Commission must work with Member States to further improve administrative cooperation of mechanisms that fall within the scope of the directive, in particular, by ensuring that Member States put into place fully operative points of single contact.
Adopted in 2006, the Services Directive, which should have been transposed into national law before 28 December 2009, continues to raise questions in the Member States and within local authorities that are directly affected by it.
Four years after the adoption of the Services Directive, the European Parliament gave its verdict this week on the implementation of the directive in the Member States.
Indeed, Member States need to make progress in implementing this directive in order to improve and facilitate the provision of cross-border services.
More than a year has now passed since the deadline for the Member States to implement the Services Directive.
Although some Member States have already taken the necessary measures, others seem to have forgotten about the document that they signed.
Therefore, we must ensure that the directive is implemented immediately and correctly in all 27 Member States, in order to simplify the process of providing services in other countries as quickly as possible.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament resolution on the implementation of the Services Directive, which entered into force in 2006.
The aim of this directive is to open up the market for service providers in the European Union, phase out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfil the principle of freedom of movement, the basis for the common market.
The purpose of the directive is to influence access to the markets in such a way that arbitrary barriers are phased out and any rules that are maintained in the Member States are appropriate and non-discriminatory.
The directive covers various services, whose gross domestic product (GDP) accounts for 40% of EU GDP.
The Services Directive is a vital step towards a genuine single services market, which will enable businesses, especially SMEs, to offer citizens better services at competitive prices.
I supported the position of the rapporteur who thinks that setting up points of single contact (PSC) is a key element to implementing this directive effectively.
This instrument may be significantly important to small and medium-sized enterprises.
PSCs must make available precise, complete and comprehensive information on formalities, administrative procedures, employment law, taxation systems in operation in Member States, especially for VAT, and so on.
Moreover, business people should receive assistance in completing the necessary administrative procedures.
I think that, after full transposition, it is crucial that a comprehensive assessment should be carried out of the impact of the Services Directive on economic activity, qualitative and quantitative levels of employment, social protection, fulfilment of environmental objectives and the quality of services offered to consumers.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution.
The Services Directive adopted in 2006 aimed to harmonise certain aspects of the single market related to the provision of services.
Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market seeks to eliminate the barriers that still exist to the cross-border provision of services.
I have not voted in favour of the report, because it does not provide enough information about the costs of the points of single contact.
Nevertheless, experience shows that there are still a lot of bureaucratic pitfalls for small businesses to overcome in some European Union Member States.
Such inconveniences are faced not only by local entrepreneurs, but also service providers wishing to provide services in other EU Member States.
I therefore agree with the text of the report and also call on the EU Member States to continue to make life easier for business and ensure the free movement of services.
The process of transposing the Services Directive is based on a delicate procedure that aims to create transparency and consistency in the Member States' systems with reference to the outcomes of the implementation of the directive itself, as well as to evaluate the outcomes for the internal market following transposition.
Promoting the convergence of regulations through mutual assessment of their effective transposition would not only facilitate the work of the Member States (which are running so late that in this report, Parliament deems it necessary to monitor their work) but would also set a definite framework for the system of points of single contact, which will guarantee the flow of information to small and medium-sized enterprises.
I should merely like to note that our economy is based 75% on services and that in a global market, they must certainly represent our strong point.
I believe that greater liberalisation, which does not mean a lack of rules but merely more competition, is desirable for the future.
The Services Directive seeks to contribute to the completion of the internal market for services, with the concomitant guarantee of high levels of quality and social cohesion.
It is an instrument intended to serve the purpose of growth within the EU and its implementation is included within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy and the Single Market Act.
Transposition of the Services Directive constitutes a major challenge for Member States, public administrations and local authorities, both because of what it prescribes with regard to the right to establishment and the provision of services, and because of the creation of points of single contact to assist service providers, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
This directive enables self-employed people and SMEs, in particular, to carry out their activities much more easily in other Member States, and to develop new areas of business and recruit personnel there.
I voted in favour as I am convinced that, because the internal market information system and points of single contact require a great effort at administrative cooperation among all the authorities involved, they will give rise to greater interoperability and the creation of networks at a national, regional and local level throughout the EU, bringing the outermost regions closer to a real internal market.
The purpose of Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market (the Services Directive) is to open up the market to service providers within the European Union, phase out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfil the principle of free movement, the basis for the common market.
It is an important instrument on the way towards a real internal market for services, which aims to enable businesses and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, to provide better quality services at competitive prices throughout the entire territory of the EU, contributing to the promotion of prosperity and competitiveness, as well as to the creation of jobs.
I have voted in favour of the report on implementing the Services Directive because I believe it to be very balanced.
I come from a country where the Services Directive has not been implemented in national law.
I believe it is essential that the directive is implemented and it must be accompanied by measures to prevent the introduction of cheap labour and social dumping.
In my opinion, it is also important that the report on implementing the Services Directive highlights the areas which have been deliberately omitted, such as social and healthcare services.
It should be said that the Gebhardt report voted on today is less concerned with the content of the text than with assessing the Member States' efforts to transpose it.
The least we can say is that there is still progress to be made in many Member States so as to strengthen the single market and facilitate the day-to-day work of SMEs, only 8% of which operate beyond their national borders.
The aim of the directive is to open up the market for service providers in the European Union, phase out the Member States' protectionist barriers on the exercise of service activities and fulfil the principle of freedom of movement of goods and services in the Union, which is at the heart of the single market.
In short, European service providers must be able to work without bureaucratic hindrance anywhere in the European Union.
The own-initiative report by Mrs Gebhardt enables us to assess the implementation of the Services Directive, the three-year period for the implementation of which came to an end on 28 December 2009, this highly important directive having entered into force in December 2006.
The rapporteur's assessment indeed demonstrates that some Member States have still not adopted all the horizontal legislation that this directive requires in order to be correctly implemented, which is why work is still required to try and put in place all the mechanisms provided for by the Services Directive.
in writing. - We finally voted against the text because, regarding services of general interest, the report considers that the majority of Member States did not encounter any significant problems.
Although this wording waters down a bit the initial proposal by the EPP shadow (Handzlik, Poland) according to which there has been no problem at all, this still tends to ignore the uncertainties created by the directive regarding, in particular, the social services to be included or excluded in its scope.
There are still a number of restrictions on services in the single market, and so this is an important report in that it analyses the implementation of the solutions that have been adopted.
The Services Directive aims to achieve full implementation of the single internal services market.
The European Parliament, as one of the key players in the project, should play a major role in monitoring this process.
The report which is to be put to the vote today takes stock of the difficulties which we encountered in implementing this Services Directive.
Although it contains some good elements, such as the call for a regular review and the investigation of long-term effects, it also contains elements with which I disagree, for example, the statement that Member States have experienced few or no significant difficulties in the process of implementation.
This report shows that implementation is incomplete and that the full benefits of the directive have not yet been reaped by citizens.
The points of single contact (PSCs) in each Member State, which inform service providers of rights and opportunities in other EU Member States, are an important provision of the directive.
The Commission should earmark funds for a promotional campaign.
However, I also underline the role to be played by authorities on the ground in the Member States who have the contacts and expertise needed to ensure this campaign is well targeted.
The European Parliament has called in its motion for a resolution on services for the EU and the bourgeois governments in the Member States to speed up capitalist restructurings, so that the directive on the 'liberalisation' of services can be implemented in full, based on the Commission's recent communication entitled 'Towards a Single Market Act' in 2011, the aim being to make further drastic cuts to the workforce and to enable the monopolies to penetrate new, profitable sectors for capital.
The Greek Communist Party voted against this motion for a resolution on the implementation of the Services Directive.
in writing. - I fully support Evelyne Gebhardt's report on the implementation of the Services Directive.
The activities of the 2006 directive account for 40% of EU GDP and jobs.
Allowing service providers to operate outside their own country is integral to the EU's single market and reducing the bureaucracy at national level can allow the directive to make a contribution to EU economic growth and its jobs objectives.
In some countries, such as Austria, where I come from, this sector is an engine of economic growth.
I have voted in favour of Mrs Gebhardt's report, because I hope that the implementation of the Services Directive will provide a new stimulus for the labour market.
I approve this report, as I believe it to be a satisfactory and balanced compromise that succeeds in guaranteeing the rights of passengers without simultaneously imposing a heavy burden on carriers, many of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
The following should also be highlighted: a guarantee of accommodation in the event of cancellation, a right to immediate assistance in the event of an accident, a right to compensation in the event of cancellation, and the electronic provision of up-to-date information to passengers.
the extra costs incurred for extra rights will translate into permanently higher ticket costs across the board for all passengers; 2.
The EU should not have the right to make laws for the UK.
I voted in favour of this resolution, in which the European Parliament expresses its position on protecting the rights of passengers.
We are talking about the rights of bus passengers when a bus or coach service is cancelled or delayed for more than 120 minutes.
In the event of cancellation or delay, it is also important for passengers to be provided with all necessary information.
In the European Union, more than 70 million Europeans travel by bus and coach every year.
The firm stance adopted by the European Parliament on the rights of persons travelling by bus or coach means that, from now on, transport operators will provide information, assistance and compensation across the whole EU to comply with passengers' rights.
I support this report which regulates the overbooking of buses and coaches or departures delayed by more than two hours for journeys longer than 250 kilometres, as well as the cancellation of journeys.
Furthermore, I believe that the policy of non-discrimination against persons with reduced mobility is reflected in a set of basic rights concerning the provision of assistance at bus stations, including free transport for particular items of equipment such as wheelchairs.
I voted for this report, which supports the rights of persons with disabilities and reduced mobility, such as non-discriminatory access to transport and the right to compensation for the loss of or damage to wheelchairs or other mobility equipment.
Persons with disabilities must have access to a transport system and the rights of persons with reduced mobility must be safeguarded in terms of getting assistance at stops and terminals.
A transport system which works well on the local level is better than a service which is terminated due to excessive regulation.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this important document.
With growth in the transport sector and EU citizens' increasing mobility, it is essential to establish EU-wide rights for the protection of passengers and to secure a level playing field between carriers from different Member States.
Air passengers have long had many rights, and two years ago, EU rail and air passengers were given the same rights and a high level of protection was ensured.
Similar rights must also be ensured for bus passengers and opportunities to travel must be improved for persons with reduced mobility.
I believe that following lengthy and complicated negotiations, it has been possible to reach a really good and balanced agreement with the Council, which fully protects passenger rights without imposing a burden on carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
the extra costs incurred for extra rights will translate into permanently higher ticket costs across the board for all passengers; 2.
The EU should not have the right to make laws for the UK.
Nevertheless, I abstained because in my opinion, the text does not go far enough.
Indeed, limiting to 250 kilometres the threshold for compensation in the event of a major problem means effectively excluding three countries of the European Union.
Since mobility is an issue that comes up often, it would have been a good idea to send them a message concerning much shorter journeys than 250 kilometres.
Regarding the text in question, I cannot but support the report by Mr Cancian whereby, at the heart of institutional debate, we are not only striving to create a common body of guarantees for the rights of bus and coach passengers, but also to give proper consideration to the mobility requirements of handicapped and disabled persons.
For this reason, bus and coach companies are urged to be equipped and trained to provide a minimal level of assistance to disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility, as long as the passenger informs the company of their needs not less than 36 hours prior to departure.
However, they will cover all national or cross-border road transport services over distances in excess of 250 km.
In too many instances, road carriers apply the rule of using their own discretion, especially in the countries which have recently become Member States.
However, making them liable can only help improve the services offered.
Indeed, as a result of this report, from this day forth, the rights of bus and coach passengers - the only ones hitherto not specifically protected at European level - will also be guaranteed.
I therefore voted in favour of this document, in which I also appreciate the attention paid to the automotive companies operating in the sector.
In fact, the agreements reached managed to avoid putting excessive burdens on carriers, which are often family-run and of modest dimensions.
At the same time, I think it is important that the European Union adopt a specific regulation that will lead shortly to a charter of passengers' rights, focusing, in particular, on the needs of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility.
I consider it a success that the European Parliament has, against the will of the Council, extended the scope of the regulation to all regular domestic and cross-border transport with a distance of 250 km or more, while the Council was proposing a minimum distance of 500 km.
I welcome the fact that in case of a cancellation, a delay longer than 120 minutes or over-acceptance of reservations, passengers will, in addition to the right to continue with their journey or take another route to their destination or reimbursement of the ticket price, have the right to compensation amounting to 50% of the ticket price.
In view of the fact that the regulation on bus passenger rights is linked to the regulation on rail passenger rights, I am not pleased that, in contrast to bus passengers, rail passengers in many EU states must wait for their rights to be applied, especially regarding the right to reimbursement of a quarter to half of the fare where there is a delay of more than one hour.
the extra costs incurred for extra rights will translate into permanently higher ticket costs across the board for all passengers; 2.
The EU should not have the right to make laws for the UK.
It is also important to ensure that there is a level playing field, in terms of competition, between transport companies in different Member States and between different modes of transport.
I therefore consider it important that it has been possible to reach an agreement, after nearly two years of negotiations, that will enable this type of passenger to benefit from an entire set of rights, particularly in terms of assistance in the event of accidents, delays, cancellations, refunds, etc., at the same time as special attention is paid to the rights of people with disabilities and reduced mobility.
I support this compromise as I believe it to be quite satisfactory and balanced, since it succeeds in guaranteeing the rights of passengers without simultaneously imposing a heavy burden on carriers, which, in the majority of cases, are small and medium-sized enterprises.
I feel it bodes well that the final text can be regarded as a very satisfactory and well-balanced compromise as it manages to secure the rights of passengers without, at the same time, imposing excessively restrictive measures on carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
In December 2008, the Commission submitted a proposal for a regulation concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport.
This has now been done, and I am delighted that passengers travelling at least 250 km by bus will now have the same EU-wide rights to information, assistance and compensation in the event of a cancellation, overbooking or delay of two hours or more.
in writing. - (SV) The European Parliament has this week voted on a report that is intended to secure rights for bus and coach passengers at European level.
The compromise with the Council is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately, the scope of the regulation is limited and we therefore chose to abstain from the vote.
We also believe that the distance of 250 km is too long to be used as a basis for EU legislation, as it means in practice that bus and coach passengers travelling from Luxembourg to Strasbourg or from Malmö to Växjö would not be protected by the legislation.
We are also opposed to the force majeure clause that limits the liability of carriers in the event of cancellations or delays if they are caused by difficult weather conditions or major natural disasters.
I voted in favour of this report on the rights of bus and coach transport passengers, as they are granted rights comparable to those of passengers on other modes of transport.
The new regulation includes important provisions, particularly with regard to the rights of people with disabilities or people with restricted mobility, as well as the rights of passengers in the event of cancellation or delay.
This report relates to a joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the basic rights of passengers who use bus and coach transport.
From the three rights initially put forward by the Council, it has actually been possible to arrive at 12, among which I would highlight the rules on accountability, compensation, assistance, alternative transport and special attention to passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility.
I therefore welcome this additional step taken by the European Union, which, I am sure, will increase the number of passengers travelling by bus and coach due to the feeling of safety and comfort that it will introduce, which will contribute significantly to the reduction of CO2 emissions.
However, we must express some doubts with regard to the amendments introduced within the Conciliation Committee, as well as the criteria used for the implementation of the regulation.
After many years of procedure, the adoption of this text represents significant progress for passenger rights in Europe, and particularly for disabled people and people with reduced mobility.
With the adoption of this regulation (which concerns journeys by bus and coach), all modes of transport in the European Union will henceforth be covered by legislation offering rights and guarantees to passengers if their journey is, for instance, cancelled or delayed, or if their luggage is lost and so forth.
That being said, I regret the fact that this regulation only applies from 250 km, since this effectively excludes three Member States of the European Union (Luxembourg, Malta and Cyprus), but also many journeys, such as Brussels-Amsterdam or Budapest-Vienna.
Finally, I also deplore the lack of flexibility for 'journeys' in cross-border areas, as this impedes Europeans' mobility.
In other words, this text is much less ambitious than what we defended in the Conciliation Committee a few months ago and much less ambitious than what I would have wanted for passengers in Europe.
I voted in favour of this text, not only because it seeks to improve the rights of bus and coach passengers in terms of compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, but also because it emphasises the principle of non-discrimination with regard to people with reduced mobility, who should also have proper access to these modes of transport, which now account for 10% of all passenger land transport in Europe.
Furthermore, I welcome the fact that, thanks to this text, passenger rights are now protected for all modes of transport.
Today's vote will be particularly important for disabled passengers, who will benefit as a result of today's vote.
I voted in favour of this resolution, in which the European Parliament expresses its position on protecting the rights of passengers.
At the same time, the enhanced passenger rights in this document will be implemented without imposing a heavy burden on carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
The report represents a good compromise, and I feel I really must emphasise the fact that proper attention has been given to the rights of disabled persons by requiring greater assistance from bus and coach companies for all disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility.
The entry into force of this legislation means that citizens will have the right to clear and shared rules on compensation for damage or reimbursements in the event of delays to the scheduled timetable.
On Tuesday, 15 February 2011, the European Parliament adopted a report which will bring about a long-awaited result, namely, equal rights for passengers in all branches of transport.
A positive feature of the regulation is that it regulates the rights of passengers throughout the European Union.
It should be stressed that these fundamental rights incorporate the needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
In view of the above, I voted in favour of the regulation, which is well-drafted and which completes the set as regards the regulation of passengers' rights in the European Union.
Today, after two years of difficult negotiations with Member States, the European Parliament voted on adopting an agreement on a regulation which will cover all the rights of passengers using national or cross-border long-distance transport services.
I voted for this agreement because it contains 12 fundamental rights which are of paramount importance to improving the quality of transport services.
The introduction of these rights will allow us to ensure non-discriminatory access to transport.
In addition, this report features passenger rights which I regard as very important, namely, compulsory compensation for lost luggage, reimbursement of a certain amount of costs in the event of a passenger's death or physical injury, as well as compensation of up to 50% of the ticket's value, in addition to full reimbursement of the ticket price, if an operator cancels a journey and is therefore unable to honour its transport contract.
The report also includes key provisions to improve the accessibility of local bus services for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. - This regulation is a step in the right direction as it creates an EU set of rights for bus passengers.
However, except for some basic rights, it applies to regular services equal to, or longer than, 250 km.
Keeping that in mind, and with a view to creating a harmonised EU set of rights for all passengers, we did not oppose the agreement and abstained in the final vote.
From now on, passengers travelling by bus and coach will also have their rights safeguarded.
Passengers who travel by bus and coach will therefore have rights that are comparable to passengers on other modes of transport.
The regulation approved by us today provides for assistance and compensation for passengers in the event of accident, cancellation or delay, and for non-discriminatory access for passengers with disabilities.
The new rules will apply to all scheduled national and cross-border services with itineraries of at least 250 kilometres.
This represents important progress with regard to defending citizens' rights.
in writing. - I voted in favour, but I would like to add that bus and coach companies should also have to comply with a requirement to create security and emergency aid systems for international and long-distance routes, because people can be injured during accidents.
Today, we voted in favour of a document which, although not ideal, is still a good compromise and which has helped the Council and the European Parliament reach an agreement.
This regulation discussing passenger rights lays down rules as regards compensation in the event of an accident or postponement, the treatment of passengers' complaints and the rights of disabled persons.
Clearly, it is unsatisfactory that the regulation will apply to a distance of 250 km or more.
In the case of small countries, this could not really be justified, but here we are not just talking about local, but international routes, and therefore I believe that for EU citizens who are travelling, this document will become a guarantee of their rights, with particular attention being paid to the rights of disabled persons.
I voted in favour of this draft resolution extending the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport.
This document is the result of a compromise following lengthy negotiations which enhances the implementation of passenger rights without imposing an additional burden on carriers.
I feel that it is important to ensure that the rights enjoyed by bus passengers are comparable to those in other modes of transport, and that carriers are guaranteed a level playing field.
It is particularly important to ensure fair and ample compensation in the event of death, and I therefore believe that the ceilings for such compensation under national law must not be lower than the minimum amounts laid down in the regulation.
I agree with the provisions of the regulation which give passengers appropriate guarantees should a journey be cancelled or delayed, even providing for additional compensation.
Until now, the legal vacuum left regulation up to national laws to the detriment of competition (given the various differences) and to the detriment of disabled citizens and/or citizens with reduced mobility, whose rights are now guaranteed by the European Union.
I voted in favour of the report because I think it is a great piece of work which, by striking a good compromise, forces European transport policies to move forward decisively, not only by guaranteeing the rights of passengers, but also by not overburdening the transport enterprises that provide this service.
The motion for a resolution on the draft regulation concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport significantly improves passengers' rights.
Despite negotiations between the European Parliament and the Council lasting several months, the final compromise text makes provision for a series of rights for bus and coach passengers travelling 250 km or more, rather than the 500 km initially put forward by the Council.
It is only right and proper that such rights should be safeguarded, which is why I voted in favour of this particular report.
I voted in favour of this report on the rights of bus and coach passengers.
I welcome the fact that the final text constitutes a satisfactory and balanced compromise, since it succeeds in guaranteeing the rights of passengers without simultaneously imposing a heavy burden on carriers, many of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Commission's proposal to implement EU-wide passenger protection rights comparable to those applicable to other modes of transport, as well as ensuring a level playing field for competition between transport companies in different Member States and between different modes of transport, is a measure that can benefit everyone.
In the end, the regulation is to apply to all regular national or cross-border services, provided that the scheduled distance travelled is equal to or greater than 250 km ('long distance').
The regulation also provides for compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, passengers' rights in the event of cancellation or delay, and the rights of people with disabilities and/or reduced mobility.
I abstained on this regulation concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport, which was adopted by a large majority of socialists and conservatives.
I regret the considerable step backwards from the position initially adopted by this House, on three main points. 1.
The force majeure clause (adverse weather conditions or natural disasters) can be invoked all too easily by coach companies to avoid paying compensation to passengers in the event of a delay or cancellation. 3.
Nonetheless I welcome the advances of the text: compulsory assistance to disabled people and people with reduced mobility, and rights and compensation in the event of an accident, delay or cancellation.
The main points that led to an agreement during the Conciliation Committee are: scope, time derogations, compensation and assistance in the event of accidents, rights of passengers in the event of cancellations or delays, and rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
The final text can be considered very satisfying and well-balanced, since it succeeds in guaranteeing passenger rights without simultaneously imposing heavy burdens on carriers, which are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises.
The result of the conciliation procedure must be seen as a victory for Parliament.
I am glad that the negotiations between Parliament and the Member States have finally culminated in the adoption of a regulation guaranteeing enhanced rights for passengers travelling by bus or coach.
This text provides for, among other things, the introduction of several types of compensation: snacks and refreshments if the delay is more than 90 minutes; the cost of one night's accommodation in the event of an interrupted journey, accident or delay requiring an overnight stay; and an upper limit in terms of refund of at least EUR 1 200 in the event of loss of, or damage to, luggage left in the company's care.
This regulation will apply to all long-distance (250 km or more) regular, national or cross-border services from spring 2013 onwards.
The scope of the regulation is fixed as services for a minimum distance of 250 km, i.e.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which finally recognises and protects the rights of travellers on all means of transport, thereby putting users at the centre of transport policy.
It is important to emphasise that the new regulation will be applied in complete accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Two important new developments are the provision for monetary compensation in the event of personal injury or damage or loss of luggage and the guarantee of assistance in the event of delays or travel disruptions, which will be based on the model used for trains and aeroplanes.
The final text recognises and protects passengers, paying particular attention to passengers with reduced mobility and disabled persons by guaranteeing appropriate information and services.
Particular attention has been paid to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
Assistance in the event of delays will include an obligation to provide meals, drinks and alternative transport.
I voted against the report under discussion today concerning the rights of coach passengers because I believe that it does not take all the Member States of the European Union into account, and leaves a large number of coach services out of the scope of the directive. 250 km is clearly too large a distance, since it completely excludes Malta, Cyprus and Luxembourg.
Unfortunately, I must admit that, during the conciliation procedure, the Estonian Government supported an even longer distance of 500 km, which would have excluded Estonia entirely.
in writing. - (NL) This is the fourth package on the protection of passenger rights.
Following schemes establishing passenger rights in air, rail and water transport, we have now turned to the rights of bus passengers.
From now on, they will receive compensation in the case of delays to journeys of more than 250 km, assistance if their travel arrangements are cancelled, protection in the case of accidents and fatalities, as well as reimbursement for lost or damaged items.
The European Parliament's position at first and second reading was watered down considerably in the eventual outcome.
Parliament wanted to apply the rules to journeys of more than 50 km.
The Council wanted them to only apply to journeys of more than 500 km.
Therefore, together with the rest of the Greens, I voted against this agreement.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which aims to provide passengers travelling by bus or coach with more rights, including the right of assistance for disabled passengers and those with reduced mobility.
Protecting consumers is a key priority of the Labour Party in Europe.
I welcome the adoption of this report, particularly because of the advances it introduces to help disabled people and people with reduced mobility, to promote the lodging and processing of complaints, and to promote compensation and assistance in the event of an accident.
Nonetheless, I would stress the urgent need to ensure that Member States strictly comply with the provisions relating to passenger rights in the event of a cancellation or delay, in order to prevent the many abuses observed in the application of the regulation on the rights of passengers travelling by air.
in writing. - (PT) The main objective of the European Commission's proposal is to ensure that bus and coach passengers have the same rights as for other modes of transport, as well as ensuring a level playing field for competition between carriers in the different Member States and different modes of transport.
This regulation provides for a set of basic rights, of which I would highlight the special attention paid to people with reduced mobility and people with disabilities, and the right to compensation and assistance in the event of accident, cancellation or delay.
These rights apply to all regular national and cross-border services, provided that the distance travelled is equal to or greater than 250 km.
Passengers who travel for part of these long-distance journeys are also covered.
A series of rights provided for passengers on short-distance regular services has also been established, in particular, non-discriminatory access to transport and the right to information while travelling.
At the start of the negotiations, Parliament demanded that new regulations be introduced for journeys of over 50 km, whereas the Council wanted a distance of over 500 km.
By way of a compromise, the distance was set at over 250 km.
The Charter will comprise a collection of fundamental rights to which every passenger is entitled, regardless of the distance they are travelling.
It establishes rights for passengers using bus and coach transport, which are comparable to those that apply to all other modes of transport.
The regulation applies to all regular services, both national and cross-border, covering a minimum scheduled distance of 250 km.
These rights concern non-discriminatory access to transport for persons with disabilities, as well as awarding compensation in the event of the passenger's death, physical injury or of loss of, or damage to, luggage.
If a journey is cancelled or delayed for more than 120 minutes, passengers will be offered immediately the option either to re-route their journey to their final destination at no extra cost or to be reimbursed the price of their ticket.
Where a journey of more than three hours is cancelled or delayed by more than 90 minutes, the carrier must offer assistance and hotel accommodation of up to EUR 80 per night, per passenger, for a maximum of two nights.
It is our duty to ensure that service providers treat passengers properly and that disabled persons do not face obstacles to using transport services.
It is important to secure a level playing field between carriers from different Member States as well as the various modes of transport.
We need a well balanced compromise that would ensure passenger rights in all EU Member States, which sometimes vary greatly in terms of size, without, at the same time, imposing a heavy burden on carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
This must change.
in writing. - I welcome the report on bus and coach passenger rights as it is an important step in providing greater protection to travellers, as well as in increasing the comfort and ease of disabled passengers.
The report ensures those travelling on longer-distance coach journeys across Europe have access to better information, support and compensation in case of delay or cancellation of a service.
Passengers will be entitled to refreshments in the case of short delay, a refund for over 2 hours' delay, and up to EUR 1 200 for lost or damaged luggage.
My vote in favour of this report reflects the need for a European standard of rights for bus and coach passengers that ensures their comfort, safety and fair treatment as they travel across Europe.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which proposes consistent legislation regarding the rights of passengers in public road transport.
This vote is part of the EU's political will to establish common legislation for users of all modes of transport.
I also welcome the application of measures in favour of disabled people and people with reduced mobility: these measures will facilitate their access to road transport.
This decision helps remove the obstacles to freedom of movement for those travelling within the European area.
Finally, a balance has been struck with the proposal of flexible legislation, which will ensure that haulage companies, which are often small businesses, are not penalised.
In my view, these new measures help promote a mode of transport that is accessible to the greatest number of people, especially in the tourism sector.
I voted in favour of the report by Mr Cancian because it finally establishes basic guarantees for the 70 million European citizens who travel by bus or coach each year within Europe and who had been waiting for their rights to be enshrined for some time.
Irrespective of their chosen means of transport, European citizens will be protected and looked after as a result of the European Commission's commitment to thoroughly revise the existing regulations and to harmonise them in a single law providing common standards for all types of journey as well as specific provisions for the particular method of transport chosen.
Given that the average reduction in CO2 emissions during the period 2002-2007 for light commercial vehicles was only 0.4-0.5% per year, and that EU targets for new light commercial vehicles are necessary to avoid fragmentation within the internal market, I am voting in favour of this proposal.
However, it is important to note that light commercial vehicles cannot be compared with passenger cars, and that the proposal of 150 g of CO2/km is ambitious, but feasible.
I also agree with the possibility of manufacturers forming 'pools' of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, since this has been shown to reduce compliance costs for manufacturers and increase employment within a greener economy, in line with the Europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution, in which the EP endorses a new EU Regulation introducing CO2 limits as of 2014 for light commercial vehicles (LCVs).
I believe that new requirements and CO2 limits will help to fight global warming, lower running costs through savings on fuel and boost innovation and the competitiveness of European car manufacturers.
In 2020, the limit will drop to 147 grams.
I voted in favour of this report.
Road transport is the second largest greenhouse gas emitting sector in the EU and its emissions, including those from light commercial vehicles, continue to rise.
If road transport emissions continue to increase, it will significantly undermine efforts made by other sectors to combat climate change.
Hitherto in the EU, there has not been legislation regulating CO2 emissions from light commercial vehicles, although demand for these vehicles is increasing in the EU.
I believe we managed to reach agreement with the Council on a balanced document, which will help reduce CO2 emissions and will encourage the automotive sector to invest in new and less-polluting technologies.
The idea is a noble one: reducing the CO2 emissions of light vehicles.
The European Commission was proposing a limit of 135 g/km, a more ambitious and equally realistic proposal.
Improvements in energy efficiency and the management of innovation are priorities today, as everyone recognises, but we still need to live up to our words by making ambitious proposals.
The proposal for a regulation to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from light commercial vehicles falls under the Commission's strategic framework to reduce CO2 emissions in the atmosphere.
However, several graphs in the latest report by the European Environment Agency clearly show that CO2 emissions caused by road transport in the EU-15 and the EU-27 have either been stable or decreasing since 2003.
In conclusion, I think that the result reached in the trialogue between the Commission, the Council and Parliament on reducing long-term CO2 emissions is still out of proportion with the special characteristics of the automotive sector and I should like to express my concern about the risk of damaging the industry and employment levels in the sector.
The average reduction in CO2 emissions over 2002-2007 for light commercial vehicles amounted to 0.4-0.5% per year, and these improvements in fuel efficiency have been offset by the increase in demand for transport and vehicle size.
Therefore, adopting Community-wide targets for new light commercial vehicles is necessary to prevent fragmentation in the internal market resulting from the adoption of different measures at Member State level.
I appreciate the essence of this text, which aims to contribute to the European Union's aim of reducing CO2 emissions through producing better functioning light commercial vehicles as well.
However, it is well-known that these transport methods are used almost exclusively for commercial reasons and therefore, compared with passenger cars, there is less scope to modify their shape or mass.
I think the initial, short-term objective of reaching 175g CO2/km between 2014 and 2017 is indeed quite reasonable, while further reducing emissions to 147 CO2/km can logically be achieved by 2020.
The fact that vans make much wider use of diesel as a fuel also plays an important role.
The Sustainable Development strategy addresses the most pressing sustainable development problems, such as transport, climate change, public health and energy conservation.
The road transport sector is the second highest emitter of greenhouse gases within the Union and its emissions, including those from light commercial vehicles, are continuing to increase.
I think that this draft regulation is based upon the premise that lowering the fuel consumption of light commercial vehicles (LCVs) will reduce the overall level of CO2 emissions from transport, thereby mitigating climate change and setting CO2 emission limits for new LCVs in the European Union.
I voted in favour of the report on emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles, which comes in the wake of the EU strategy to reduce emissions from light vehicles.
This report includes measures - such as super-credits for non-polluting or low emission vehicles, fines if limits are exceeded and eco-innovation incentives to help manufacturers develop new, more environmentally friendly technologies - which will benefit the competitiveness of the EU and create employment opportunities.
The aim of approving EU targets for new light commercial vehicles is to avoid fragmentation of the internal market resulting from the adoption of different measures by Member States.
As the rapporteur points out, this new regulation will also serve as an incentive for the automotive sector to invest in new technologies.
The road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the European Union and its emissions are continuing to rise.
Consequently, all types of vehicles must be covered by regulations to reduce these emissions, including light commercial vehicles.
Therefore, I agree with the emissions limit objective of 147 g CO2/km for new light commercial vehicles registered in the EU, provided that the viability of this option is confirmed.
I also welcome the fact that a single European speed limit has not been introduced for this type of vehicle.
In this specific case, we believe that the emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles must not ignore either the diversity of the automotive manufacturers or the legitimate interests and needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in the various Member States.
These different possibilities include the introduction of speed limiters in vehicles, which, apart from reducing emissions, may also have positive implications for road safety.
It falls short of what is needed and 147 grams is not a sufficiently ambitious long-term target.
However, I have not voted against the report, because the compromise will be implemented quickly and will enable the necessary innovations to be introduced rapidly.
The watering down of the long-term target in particular demonstrates to me that the automotive industry has not learnt from the legislation on CO2 limits for cars introduced two years ago that it will only be able to sell clean cars in the future.
In addition, we have once again missed the chance of making it clear that by protecting our industry in this way, we are not doing it any good.
In order to respond to the European Union's ambitious objectives in terms of sustainable development and combating climate change, it is important that the European Union takes action in the vehicle sector.
It is important to set limits in order to encourage vehicle manufacturers to take an ambitious approach.
This compromise includes the short-term goal of reducing emissions to 175 grams per kilometre by 2014.
In addition, there will be a gradual, step-by-step reduction in order to achieve a long-term target of 147 grams per kilometre by 2020.
In addition, we must not allow our expertise to be exported to other countries, such as China, as a result of delays in EU policy making.
Instead, we must take this as an opportunity to put in place a sustainable European environment policy, which will have a positive impact not only on Europe as an industrial location, but also on employment.
I welcome this compromise and have therefore supported it.
The purpose of this proposed legislation is to reduce the CO2 emissions from light commercial vehicles.
There is also concern that they may reduce competitiveness in this sector.
I nevertheless feel that we should give more consideration to three areas: the economic downturn and its severe impact on car manufacturers and users, the need to support industry (manufacturers) rather than disadvantaging it with onerous measures (or even fines), and the need to support business (users) rather than inducing additional costs via questionable political measures.
During the legislative process, I tabled numerous amendments to the proposal for a regulation concerning emissions from new light commercial vehicles, aimed at relaxing the CO2 emission levels initially put forward, and at ensuring that a longer period would be provided for achieving the targets.
N1 vehicles are used by small businesses which are sensitive to price increases, and which are, at the same time, becoming ever more common on the market.
It is now time for the European Parliament to approve the introduction of CO2 limits for new light commercial vehicles.
These vehicles are mainly used by companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and make up approximately 12% of the vehicles on the road at the moment.
Apart from contributing to improved air quality and to achieving the EU climate targets, the vehicles should provide greater fuel savings for the small companies that depend on them.
The objectives indicated aim to encourage innovation in the industry.
The regulation sets a target of 175 g CO2/km to be implemented by 2014, which should gradually fall to 147 g CO2/km by 2020.
In order to be able to achieve a significant reduction in CO2 emissions, manufacturers need to redesign vehicles so that they do not exceed a specific level in future.
For this reason, we need to find alternative solutions which will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions from light commercial vehicles.
I did not vote in favour of the report because, in my opinion, it offers too few options.
We must aim to reduce the level of CO2 emissions as much as possible, and therefore it is very important to set an emissions target for vehicles given their negative impact on the environment and human health.
However, the proposal put forward in the resolution to raise the emissions target for new light commercial vehicles, setting the same target that is applied to cars, is primarily being debated due to the measures envisaged to achieve this objective and their impact on van manufacturers.
The proposal to install speed limiters in cars would have a negative impact on businesses and would reduce their competitiveness in the international market.
Therefore, before taking such important decisions, we should carry out extensive scientific research, proving that the introduction of speed limiters would significantly reduce the level of CO2 emissions.
I believe that in order to increase the competitiveness of European car manufacturers, greater attention should be paid to stimulus measures.
The aims to reduce CO2 emissions from vehicles are important aspects of the European strategy for combating pollution and climate change.
I voted in favour of the present report on new legislation setting emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles as part of the Community's integrated approach to reduce CO2 emissions from light-duty vehicles.
My decision was based on the various data presented in the different documents informing the argument, in particular, the fact that at the moment, these vehicles make up approximately 12% of the vehicles on the road.
It is necessary to set CO2 emission standards for new light commercial vehicles in order to avoid regulatory gaps, and it is also important to encourage the automotive sector to invest in new technologies.
However, unlike cars, changes to these vehicles do not involve their shape or weight, but modifications to their engines and mechanics, which makes the process much slower and more expensive.
in writing. - This proposal is a follow-up to the Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from light commercial vehicles (LCVs), as follows: from 2020, a long-tem target of 147g CO2/km for the average emissions of new LCVs registered in the Union, subject to confirmation of its feasibility.
By 1 January 2013, after a complete review of them, a proposal will amend it, if appropriate; the short-term target, fixed to 175g CO2/km; a phasing-in period from 1 January 2014 onwards with full compliance of the new fleet from 2017; specific emission targets for alternative fuel vehicles will be incorporated, aimed at promoting further deployment of certain alternative fuel vehicles in the Union market; for multi-stage vehicles, the specific emissions of CO2 of completed vehicles will be allocated to the manufacturer of the base vehicle.
The super-credits to manufacturers producing LCVs with emissions of CO2 of less than 50g CO2/km will be limited with a threshold of 25 000 LCVs per manufacturer; the penalties: from 2019 onwards settled to €95, being phased in gradually from 1 January 2014 to 2018.
I voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which requires manufacturers to reduce the CO2 emissions of vans and other commercial vehicles within the next decade.
This proposal largely takes its inspiration from the European regulation on the CO2 emissions of cars, which has been in force since 2008.
This was a reasonable vote, following an agreement with the Council which essentially returns to the main proposals of the European Commission: the obligation to reduce the polluting emissions of commercial vehicles to 175 g CO2/km by 2014 for 100% of the fleet, and to reduce them progressively to 147 g CO2/km by 2020.
As for the extra costs to manufacturers of vans and minibuses, they will be well compensated for by the fact that these vehicles will pollute less and consume less, and in the end, that is what motorists are interested in.
The legislation adopted represents a difficult balancing act and sets a series of ambitious but feasible environmental objectives for manufacturers.
Indeed, said vehicle would count towards the calculation of the average as 3.5 vehicles between 2014-2015, 2.5 in 2016 and 1.5 in 2017, which is the last year that the super-credit system will be in place.
On the other hand, newly manufactured vehicles that emit more than the imposed limits will, from 2019 onwards, be subject to a penalty of up to EUR 95 per gram.
The main content of the first-reading agreement was: delaying the binding 175 g CO2/km average limit by one year (2017); lowering the 2020 target to 147 g/km, requiring to be confirmed by legislative procedure; lowering excess emissions premium to EUR 95/g; and a slight increase and prolongation of super-credits until 2017.
However, the final outcome in plenary was highly unsatisfactory, and we decided to vote against.
This is an important document that helps the automotive industry to plan their manufacturing more effectively, thereby ensuring reduced CO2 emissions.
The adoption of these new targets and standards will certainly produce tangible results, while also better protecting the health of all European citizens.
The fight against climate change cannot be delayed and this applies equally to reducing vehicle emissions.
I believe that the report is necessary in view of European Union objectives relating to global warming and emission reduction.
Equally, it should be noted that as the light commercial vehicles in question provide a service and are used mainly by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), it is important that their capacities are also taken into account when implementing any necessary changes.
I sincerely believe that, in order to achieve the level imposed by this report, we need an appropriate compromise taking account of the SMEs operating in Europe and the global aims of the European Union.
Ultimately, the first reading agreement has turned into a very weak agreement, where the binding target to achieve 175 g CO2/km has been delayed by a year.
The 2020 target has been left at 147 g/km and the penalties for non-compliance have been reduced from EUR 120/g to EUR 95/g.
in writing. - I have supported this report which is part of the Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from light-duty vehicles.
Bearing in mind the fight against climate change with regard to CO2 emissions and the increased competitiveness of the European automotive industry, this regulation aims to establish incentive schemes, in particular, the granting of super-credits and payments for eco-innovations and also fewer penalties.
This will allow us to encourage vehicle manufacturers to use eco-innovation to ensure the European car industry's competitiveness.
The regulation imposes the payment of penalties on light commercial vehicle manufacturers for exceeding the average specific emissions defined in it.
I would like to point out that the restriction on polluting emissions must not only be approached from the supply angle, for instance, how light-duty vehicles need to be modernised to be made cleaner, but also from the demand angle.
It is important that new vehicles which comply with this regulation's provisions are accessible to consumers.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report today as it signals another step in the right direction in the fight against climate change.
CO2 limits for new vans will lead to cleaner, more fuel-efficient vehicles in the EU.
I have not voted in favour of Mr Callanan's report, despite the fact that it is well-founded and represents a move in the right direction.
However, I am of the opinion that the CO2 emission limits per kilometre should be much more ambitious.
Therefore, I support the Commission's proposal of 135 grams of CO2 per kilometre.
The combination of emission pools, which manufacturers can create across their entire product range, and a speed limit of 120 km/h, would make this target achievable, although it would require serious efforts to be made.
At the same time, we should not allow any of these deadlines to be postponed for the sake of the environment.
Over recent months, I have repeatedly expressed my disapproval of a trilingual language regime for patents.
This proposal for a decision is also incompatible with the requirement of last resort set forth by Article 20(2) of the Treaty on European Union, which establishes that enhanced cooperation can only be permitted when, all other options having been examined, there is no possibility of reaching the objectives within a reasonable period.
Additionally, more than a year after the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, the principle of the equal standing of the European languages is already being cast aside, compromising the competitiveness and innovative qualities of millions of European small and medium-sized enterprises as well as the rights of European citizens.
This patent regime harms the internal market, subjecting it to geographical segmentation, which would be an obstacle to trade between Member States and have a negative impact on the stability of enterprises and the free movement of capital.
As I reiterate my opposition, I would say that I think it would have been a good idea to wait for the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 8 March before discussing the issue in this House.
The reason is that, while it costs 10 times as much to protect inventions with a patent in Europe as it does in the United States, in particular, because of translation costs, 25 of the 27 Member States want to create a European patent together; such a patent would cost less because it would be unitary.
The unitary patent will be filed in French, English or German and will protect our inventions in the 25 countries involved.
Even if Spain and Italy are not in favour of such a system for linguistic reasons, it is essential that the 25 Member States who are interested make progress together on this subject.
I voted in favour of this procedure, as it represents a big step forward for the competitiveness of European industry.
Hitherto, there has been a fragmented patent system in the European Union, caused by the high costs and complexity of validating patents in individual Member States.
Although more than nine Member States have indicated their intention to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, the Commission and the Member States participating should promote the participation of as many Member States as possible.
Enhanced cooperation would facilitate the proper functioning of the internal market and would eliminate obstacles to the free movement of goods, which would increase the number of inventors and would provide access to unitary patent protection throughout the EU.
The existence of different interpretations and decisions in each Member State causes legal uncertainty.
The obligatory translation of each patent file into the 23 official languages is expensive, lengthy and creates a loss of competitiveness.
In terms of global prominence, however, Portuguese is a much more important language than French or German.
I also have many reservations about the possibility of using enhanced cooperation in this case.
Although I appreciate the spirit of this reform, which aims to provide Europe with a single patent and therefore reduce translation costs, I voted against it in any case.
I am concerned that it has not been possible to reach agreement on a common solution because of insurmountable differences of opinion over arrangements for the translation of patents.
I have supported Parliament's recommendations on the proposed Council decision permitting enhanced cooperation in the area of unitary patent protection because it is based on the conclusions of the Council from 4 December 2009, which define the future form of the unitary patent system.
The European patent system should be based on two pillars, consisting of a unified system for resolving patent disputes (the Court for European Patents and EU Patents) and for creating EU patents (an instrument applying a patent across the entire EU).
The creation of a European patent will stimulate innovation and scientific and technological development in the EU.
I believe it is essential to resolve the matter of the European patent.
The existence of different interpretations and decisions in each Member State causes legal uncertainty.
The obligatory translation of each patent file into the 23 official languages is expensive, lengthy and creates a loss of competitiveness.
In terms of global prominence, however, Portuguese is a much more important language than French or German.
I also have many reservations about the viability of using enhanced cooperation in this case.
However, I regret the absence of the Portuguese language in the European patent arrangements.
The internal market and competition policy are two cornerstones of the process of European unification which aim not only at strengthening the European Union's economy and its businesses but, above all, at realising the fundamental freedoms of the Union.
Giving all European Union citizens the right to express themselves in their own language in dealings with the EU institutions is a fundamental right in terms of equality, equal opportunities and non-discrimination.
The use of just some of the official languages can technically only be justified within the activities of the EU institutions and not in its relations with citizens, enterprises and institutions in the Member States.
The matter was then taken up by the Belgian Presidency of the EU, but since the obstacles remained, 12 Member States requested a proposal for a regulation authorising enhanced cooperation in the creation of a unitary patent.
The Competitiveness Council thus provided for the authorisation of enhanced cooperation in March 2011.
I would remind you that the creation of a unitary patent will bring advantages for users of the patent system in Europe and, in particular, it will allow small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often neglected, to improve their competitiveness through improved access to protection via the patent as well as a reduction in costs.
I voted for this report as I think that enhanced cooperation in the area of creating a unitary patent is the best solution at the moment, and I hope that, in the meantime, all Member States will participate in it for the benefit of Europe's citizens.
It is vital to have EU-wide legislation that protects patents in order to defend intellectual property rights.
We will be able to have uniform protection in the territories of the participating Member States as well as reduced costs and simplified administrative procedures.
Therefore, innovation and scientific investigation will benefit and the internal market will be improved at the same time.
I would point out that the language arrangements of this enhanced cooperation will consist of just three languages: English, French and German.
I am against Parliament's green light on the use of the enhanced cooperation procedure to create a unitary patent system since I think the issue of the language regime is of fundamental importance for Italian interests, given that Italy is fourth in Europe for the number of patents filed.
Forcing this through could set a dangerous precedent since it harms a Member State and circumvents the unanimity that the Treaty of Lisbon requires for issues concerning the internal market, as well as the principle of not distorting competition within it.
Furthermore, we would have preferred to wait for the decision of the Court of Justice, which we are expecting on 8 March.
We voted against this report for three fundamental reasons.
It is inadmissible for Parliament to endorse a proposal for enhanced cooperation in this area of so-called unitary patents because it only seeks to put in jeopardy the rights that the Member States have to defend their interests, merely to benefit the more powerful countries.
It is unacceptable for them to pressurise states which belong to the EU, but which do not accept the conditions that the majority wishes to impose on them, particularly in such sensitive areas as language, since the proposed agreement threatens the languages of the majority of the countries.
It is not every day that we have the opportunity to discuss a subject as important as the EU patent, which is the subject of Mr Lehne's recommendation.
Everything is therefore still possible, or, to be more specific, amendments can be made to the European Commission's proposals for regulations.
It is for this reason that I voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
Under the current fragmented patent system, patents have to be translated into the language of each of the States for which they have been granted, imposing exorbitant costs on entrepreneurs, start-ups and other innovation-based SMEs for translations: obtaining a patent is thirteen times more expensive in the EU than in the US and eleven times more expensive than in Japan.
Under the new system to be adopted by Member States participating in enhanced cooperation in this area, the unitary patent will fall under a much more affordable translation regime consisting of solely the French, English and German languages; resulting in the cutting of costs.
The introduction of a unitary and affordable patent system, albeit only in some EU Member States, will play an important role in the furtherance of the single market, particularly by giving the Union the boost in innovation and creativity with regard to the creation of goods and services which it so desperately needs.
For around 15 years, the European Commission has been proposing the creation of a single European patent.
I therefore voted enthusiastically in favour of this report, which allows us to launch this enhanced cooperation procedure in order to create an EU patent system.
This is an important step forward for all European businesses and for all small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been waiting a long time for this instrument, an instrument which is indispensable for innovation, research and development and competitiveness in Europe.
I voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the authorisation of enhanced cooperation for creating a European patent.
In December 2010, 12 Member States, including France, wanted to use an enhanced cooperation procedure following disagreement among the 27, due to linguistic differences, on the introduction of an EU patent system.
I would like it to be possible for these two countries to be able to get involved in the initiative at any point.
After more than 10 years, work on a unitary European patent is finally coming to an end.
In spite of the fact that we have only achieved a partial success, since the unitary patent protection system does not cover the entire territory of the European Union, it should undoubtedly be regarded as a significant step forward.
The simplification of registration procedures and a significant reduction in their cost will promote the development of the internal market and stimulate scientific and technical progress throughout the EU as a whole, even if they only cover 12 Member States.
I believe that we should continue measures aimed at extending the scope of unitary patent protection, so that it ultimately covers the entire territory of the European Union.
It is not only individual entrepreneurs that will benefit, since the European market will also become more competitive compared to other large economies such as the United States, China or Japan.
I supported this draft resolution on a proposal for a Council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, as I believe that a unitary patent registration system will reduce administrative barriers for European businesses.
The European Union cannot afford a fragmented patent registration system.
The status quo, under which a business must register its patent in every Member State separately, is a significant hindrance to business development.
A clear and efficient procedure whereby anyone may register a patent valid throughout the European Union will ensure that new products can reach the market more quickly, thereby boosting the rate at which businesses develop.
The current less favourable conditions for innovation make the European Union a less attractive place for creativity and innovation, for European and non-European inventors alike.
I voted for this recommendation as enhancing cooperation within a group of Member States in the area of unitary patent protection will safeguard the interests of the Union, based on the fact that it will boost the EU's competitiveness and make it more attractive to the rest of the world.
Furthermore, creating unitary patent protection for a group of Member States would improve the level of patent protection and remove the costs and complexity associated with the relevant territories, which would facilitate scientific and technological progress and the operation of the internal market.
The possibility of at least a partial solution is now arising in the form of enhanced cooperation between some Member States in establishing unitary patent protection.
The Czech Republic wishes to participate in this enhanced cooperation and also wishes to take part in further negotiations over concrete proposals for a regulation on the unitary patent and its language regime.
One significant aspect is the economic benefit, or the advantages for businesses deriving from the new technical solutions, in view of the size of the common market of those participating in the enhanced cooperation.
I would also like to mention that the Czech Republic retains the option of withdrawing from the enhanced cooperation, should this cooperation take a direction contrary to the positions of the Czech Republic, particularly regarding the language regime and the area of patent jurisprudence.
With the approval of this report, which seeks to establish enhanced cooperation in connection with the registration and protection of patents, there is a risk of imposing language arrangements that are limited to three languages only - English, German and French - with translation of the patent into the respective national language in each Member State no longer being required.
Although the purpose of creating an EU patent is positive in the sense that it would help to revitalise and promote innovation in Europe, nevertheless, I would argue that this cannot be pursued with the violation of the fundamental principles of European citizenship itself, with the breaking of Community cohesion and fragmentation of the internal market or with the introduction of new factors of discrimination, inequality and imbalance.
The dispute over the languages used in EU patents has been going on for more than 30 years.
Over the course of these 30 years, European companies have had to cope with high translation costs and, in some cases, have been put at a competitive disadvantage on the global market.
However, they are used as the security for loans and are also taken into account in credit ratings.
The new regulation also strengthens the position of the German language, which is still the most widely spoken native language within the EU, according to a survey carried out in 2006.
I voted against the introduction of a trilingual system in patent regulations.
This way, we can preserve our linguistic independence and the interests of our country.
Indeed, enhanced cooperation between 10 or 12 countries on this issue runs the risk of distorting the conditions of fair competition, to the advantage of those countries participating.
I am pleased that many European Union Member States are contributing to the initiative to create a unitary patent, and hope that the remaining countries will also soon help achieve the objective of creating a unitary patent for improved economic liberalisation conditions within the European Union.
Only enhanced cooperation will facilitate the proper functioning of the internal market by eliminating obstacles to the free movement of goods.
I voted in favour of the recommendation for a decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection.
I abstained for three fundamental reasons: firstly, because to create a patent system with the obligatory translation of each file into the 23 official languages would be expensive, slow and would create a serious competitive disadvantage; secondly, because in practice, the English language is commonly used today as a lingua franca; and, thirdly, because 90% of patent applications are made in English anyway.
I cannot agree to the inclusion in this process of the French and German languages to the detriment of more widely spoken languages such as Portuguese or Spanish (as if languages with different statuses existed in the EU, an idea that I reject).
I abstained from the vote because, although I believe it is essential to improve the patent system in Europe, in particular, with the creation of a unitary patent and a European and EU Patents Court, which would make it possible to overcome the problems for small and medium-sized enterprises caused by the current fragmentation in the existing system, characterised by high costs and excessive complexity, I also understand the reservations that some countries have expressed with regard to the translation arrangements for the EU patent.
The absence of unitary patent protection throughout the European Union puts European companies in a clear position of competitive disadvantage compared to their US and Japanese peers.
The costs of patenting in Europe are almost 10 times higher than the costs of patenting in the US and Japan, which is essentially because of outlay on translating patents into the languages of the EU's various countries.
In order to make Portuguese and European industry more competitive in this context, I consider it crucial to make rapid progress towards the creation of a unitary patent protection system that is less burdensome and complex, and that can operate as a stimulus for innovation, and for scientific and technological development in Portugal and the EU.
That is why I voted for this resolution.
Today, I have voted in favour of the introduction of enhanced cooperation with regard to unitary patent protection because I believe that the deadlock in the Council as a result of the language arrangements is unjustified.
I would like to explain that those who believe that today's vote will result in Parliament losing its rights are mistaken.
The legislative procedure is only just beginning.
By voting today, Parliament was simply giving permission for a group of Member States to start the enhanced cooperation procedure, which was only made possible by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The remainder of the procedure will involve a) Parliament being consulted about the language arrangements (the decision in this case must be made by the Council), b) Parliament taking part in deciding on the content of the patent regulation as part of the ordinary legislative procedure, c) Parliament's consent being obtained for the patent jurisdiction.
Our group has asked for the postponement of the vote as the Court decision on the above opinion of the Advocates General is due already on 8 March and Parliament should be fully aware of the legal consequences of the 'enhanced cooperation' before embarking on such an exceptional project.
I voted against this resolution because I think that after a long legislative process that began in 2000, it is now unacceptable that a shared solution has not been proposed on the linguistic aspect of European patents.
For some months, the Italian and Spanish governments have been pointing out the unusual characteristics of this procedure which, if approved by the European Parliament and the Council with a qualified majority, would make the European patent applicable not only in States participating in the enhanced cooperation, but also to businesses belonging to other Member States.
Implementing an enhanced cooperation procedure on this issue is profoundly mistaken because it nullifies the efforts made to create a European patent that would be valid in all Member States.
We also contest the decision to try and force this vote through Parliament without bearing in mind the consequences of the judgment of the Court of Justice on the compatibility of the single Patents Court with the Treaty.
Italy, together with Spain, has rightly opposed the recognition of just three languages (English, French and German) for filing European patents instead of respecting the principle of equal status of languages, as enshrined by the Treaty.
I firmly believe that the enhanced cooperation in the area of patent protection will help to eliminate the fragmentation in this area, secure better framework conditions for innovative businesses throughout the Union, lead to greater EU competitiveness on a global scale and the better functioning of the EU internal market.
The anticipated reduction in costs associated with the patent protection process is also not inconsiderable.
I have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (HU) I voted for the recommendation because I find it outrageous that we still have not been able to form a common position on the issue.
In order to get a patent approved in just half of the EU Member States, it is necessary to pay up to EUR 20 000, of which EUR 14 000 is for translation.
In the United States, around EUR 1 850 suffices.
The lack of a European patent hinders our competitiveness, as well as European innovation, research and development.
The creation of a European unitary patent within the European Union will bring with it advantages for all the users involved and, in particular, for small and medium-sized enterprises, insofar as it will contribute to their competitiveness through a reduction in costs.
This issue, which already goes back two decades, requires unanimous agreement within the Council to determine the language arrangements applicable to intellectual property rights in the European Union.
According to a report produced in 2011 by Thomson Reuters entitled 'Patented in China', China is going to overtake Japan and the US in terms of numbers of patents.
Indeed, China's intention with the programme launched in 2006 was to become a country focused on innovation, and it managed to increase the number of patents by 14.1%, 33.55% and 15.9% compared to the US, EU and Japan respectively.
The cost of an EU patent validated in 13 countries is as high as EUR 20 000, of which roughly EUR 14 000 are for translation costs alone.
This makes a European patent 10 times more expensive than a US one.
I think that authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of creating unitary patents can help develop a unitary patent which is attractive to users of the European patent system, offer intellectual property protection across the whole of the EU and remove the costs and complications with the aim of encouraging research, development and innovative SMEs.
Bearing in mind that the Consultative Working Party of the Legal Services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission concluded, in its opinion, that the proposal concerned does not contain substantive amendments, other than those identified as such, and that, with regard to the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts together with the included amendments, the proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing acts without substantive alterations, I approve the present report.
I agree with the guarantee of a high level of protection of the health of European citizens in the event of radioactive contamination and with the democratic legitimacy in the adoption of the present directive, since the legal basis has to be adapted to the new Treaty of Lisbon.
A high level of protection of human health is one of the European Union's objectives.
We therefore urgently need to set up a system allowing the European Union, following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency which has or is likely to lead to a significant radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs, to fix maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination in order to ensure a high level of protection of public health.
All EU citizens must have the greatest possible protection in the event of a nuclear or radiological accident, and the European Commission must be ready to react quickly.
This report sets the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination for foodstuffs and animal feed following a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency.
I agree that the European Parliament must play a crucial role in situations having a direct impact on the general public's health.
Member States must maintain an official control system for these products and inform the general public about any risks.
I voted for this report, which guarantees the safety of European citizens' food in the event of nuclear accidents or radiological emergencies.
We must set up a comprehensive system allowing the Union, following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency which is likely to lead to a significant radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs, to fix maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination in order to ensure a high level of protection of public health.
I agree that the permitted levels of radioactive contamination must be reviewed at regular intervals in order to take into account the latest international scientific progress and scientific recommendations and to avoid existing divergences in regulatory practice.
At the same time, Annexes I and III set out the maximum permitted levels of contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs.
It is necessary to streamline the procedure in cases of nuclear emergency by clearly giving a supervisory role to the Commission and clarifying the regime of its acts (adoption, revision).
Furthermore, we must attempt to serve the interests of the citizens through better management of the post-accident situation.
We must ensure legal certainty of the whole proposal through the alignment of obsolete procedures - 'comitology' procedures in the field of Euratom adopted by analogy - which this proposal intends to codify, with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Bearing in mind that the three regulations on radiation amended by the report in question were adopted in the wake of Chernobyl about 20 years ago, I consider that the Belet report, as it now stands after the vote, is a first attempt to improve the approach to and update the problem of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and the soil.
It is for the above reasons that I abstained in the final vote.
I believe that EU Member States are responsible for monitoring compliance with the levels laid down for protection against radioactive contamination in this regulation, in particular, through the surveillance of the safety standards of both foodstuffs and feedingstuffs, as well as through monitoring environmental parameters.
I voted in favour of the report relating to the radioactive contamination of foodstuffs, the aim of which is to set the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency.
Therefore, the main objective of the regulation is the protection of public health and accordingly, the legal basis must be Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
The present proposal aims to guarantee a high level of protection of the health of European citizens in the event of radioactive contamination and also to confer democratic legitimacy on the adoption of the present regulation.
There is no doubt that its legal basis must be adapted to the new Treaty of Lisbon in order to grant Parliament a role in the decision-making process concerning a regulation that potentially affects public health.
Essentially, this proposal consists of the codification of the unchanged provisions of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990, which establish the permitted levels of radioactive contamination in the event of a radiological emergency.
After the Chernobyl disaster (1986), the question of radioactive contamination of the environment gained in importance and justified the adoption of three regulations, between 1987 and 1990, which set the maximum permitted levels of contamination in the event of a radiological emergency or nuclear accident, seeing that these effects are long lasting and, very often, can be indirect (contamination of woodlands).
This proposal essentially consists of a codification of the unchanged provisions of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990, which establish the permitted levels of radioactive contamination in the event of a radiological emergency.
The content of the regulation consists of a mechanism of two levels of intervention in the event of a radiological emergency or nuclear accident, as proposed by the Commission: the immediate adoption by the Commission of an ad hoc regulation to apply the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination specified in Annexes I and III of the proposal to a specific case, in a definite area and for a limited period; establishment of a period of one month following its adoption for the Commission to forward a proposal to the Council to adapt or confirm this ad hoc regulation.
in writing. - ECR Group MEPs supported this report as we believed that the legal basis of this legislation should be changed from 'Article 31 EAEC' to 'Article 168 TFEU'.
If Article 168 TFEU was the legal base of this regulation, then this would imply a change from consultation to the ordinary legislative procedure and the proposal would then be subject to full European Parliament scrutiny and, most importantly, a full impact assessment, including consultation with food producers and consumers.
While there could be certain aspects of Parliament's adopted report that ECR MEPs do not support, we strongly believe that the legal basis of this regulation should be changed to fully involve the European Parliament in the legislative process and additionally, that it should be accompanied by a thorough impact assessment.
The ECR Group therefore voted in favour of this report.
The maximum contamination levels proposed by the Commission, which have been in force since 1987, are far too high.
in writing. - Parliament today voted for a change in the legal basis for legislation on radioactive contamination in foodstuffs.
I voted in favour of this important document on the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and of feedingstuffs following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency.
It is crucially important to determine the maximum permitted levels applied to foodstuffs and feedingstuffs in order to ensure a high level of public health protection and avoid a repeat of the Chernobyl disaster when foodstuffs (grain, vegetables, berries, mushrooms, etc.) and feedingstuffs, as well as fields, were contaminated with radioactive fallout, which increased the radioactivity of forest and agricultural foodstuffs from the areas affected.
We must create a mechanism to adequately and effectively ensure safety in the event of a nuclear or radiological accident.
A high level of protection of human health is one of the European Union's main objectives.
In the case of a nuclear accident or any other kind of radiological emergency, it is essential that the proper action is taken.
The proposed regulation establishes the procedure for setting the maximum permitted limits of radioactive contamination for foodstuffs and animal feed which may be put on the market following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency, which may cause or has caused significant radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and animal feed.
Radioactive contamination can represent a problem over a number of years in some foods.
The difficulty arises when contaminated foodstuffs, such as wild produce from the forests in areas that have been exposed to radioactivity for centuries, are not only consumed locally, but are also sold in otherwise uncontaminated areas, where they are believed to be harmless.
I voted in favour of this resolution since it streamlines the procedure for intervening in the event of an emergency and strengthens the role of the Commission by stating that it - and not the Council - is directly responsible for decision making in the event of a nuclear accident, establishing measures that enter into force immediately.
In essence, this report protects citizens and gives the Commission and Parliament a leading role.
Today, we voted on the regulation concerning 'the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and of feedingstuffs following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency', which lays down guidelines for reacting to nuclear or radiological accidents.
I would like to highlight one amendment proposed by Parliament, which proposes the inclusion of a provision on compensating farmers whose land is contaminated with poisonous substances during a nuclear or radiological accident.
I agree with the proposal presented on the Council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and of feedingstuffs following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency.
This report relates to a legislative proposal which essentially consists of a codification of the unchanged provisions of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990, following the Chernobyl disaster (1986), at which time the question of radioactive contamination of the environment became increasingly important.
These regulations establish the permitted levels of radioactive contamination in the event of a radiological emergency.
The content of the regulations consists of a mechanism of two levels of intervention in the event of a radiological emergency or nuclear accident, as proposed by the Commission: (a) immediate adoption by the Commission of an ad hoc regulation whereby the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination specified in Annexes I and III of the proposal can be applied to a specific case, in a definite area and for a limited period; and (b) establishment of a period of one month after its adoption for the Commission to forward a proposal to the Council to adapt or confirm this ad hoc regulation.
I am voting in favour of this report as I think that the amendments proposed by the European Parliament are positive and confer a current logic to the text.
As the main objective of the regulation is the protection of public health, I consider that the legal basis should be Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
in writing. - The radioactive contamination of food is clearly a concern for European public health and, as such, it is essential that this legislation is decided on that basis, with the European Parliament as a colegislator.
We are in favour of the report laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs because it streamlines the procedures for intervention in the event of an emergency and strengthens the role of the Commission, granting it the authority to make decisions in the event of a nuclear accident.
During the vote, an oral amendment that provides for the compensation of farmers adversely affected by the lost opportunity of selling any contaminated products was also adopted, again with our support.
It is worth bearing in mind that irradiation destroys vitamins - up to 90% of vitamin A in chickens, 86% of vitamin B in oats and 70% of vitamin C in fruit juices.
