Amending Budget 1/2010 (Section I, European Parliament) (debate) The next item is the report by Vladimír Maňka, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for Amending Budget 1/2010 (Section 1 - European Parliament) .
In 2006, in negotiations over the multi-year financial framework for 2007-2013, the European Parliament approved this limit as the maximum of the overall administrative costs of the institutions.
In spite of the Statute for Members being in the Lisbon Treaty, we in the Committee on Budgets insisted on the European Parliament budget for 2010 adhering to the 20% limit from the original multi-year financial framework.
I would like to emphasise that the best way to ensure budget sustainability is to create a budget based on actual needs and not based on inflation indices.
At the same time, I believe that the traditional 20% limit must be maintained and I must welcome that a consensus has been reached on not exceeding this limit in this case.
I also support the idea that actions aiming to secure budgetary sustainability in future years should be taken, while reaffirming the importance of drafting a budget policy that will ensure greater rigour.
I also believe that transparency is required, which therefore means providing clear information about the overall volume of fixed expenses in the European Parliament's budget. (DE) Madam President, at the end of the procedure, I would like to say that the European Parliament has dealt with this matter in a very responsible way.
I would like to thank the Bureau in particular for finding a way to respect the upper limit of 20%.
The EUR 4 million savings on buildings should not prevent us from using the existing resources to make our building one of the most modern buildings in the world so that we can work as efficiently as possible for our citizens.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 25 February 2010.
in writing. - (EL) I, too, should like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
At the same time, however, the increase in its range of activities has created additional requirements in terms of more personnel, both in the administration of the European Parliament and in the political groups and offices of MEPs.
