The case of Gilad Shalit The next item is the debate about cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure), initially the case of Gilad Shalit (four motions for resolutions).
author. - (NL) Mr President, at around 8 o'clock this morning, here in Parliament, I visited the website dedicated to Gilad Shalit and a painful fact immediately caught my eye: for 1355 days, 3 hours, 12 minutes and 37 seconds, Gilad, who has been abducted, has been denied any contact with his father, mother, brother and sister.
Noam Shalit, who is with us here today, is placing his hope and confidence in you, as well as in the God of Israel, to obtain the release of his precious son.
The case of Shalit is our cause, a European cause.
Not in Gaza, but in Israel, in a kibbutz where his unit was stationed.
His family have no information on the state of his health, either physical health or mental health.
At the same time, amongst the 7 200 Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails, also held in breach of the Geneva Conventions, 1 500 are held for an indefinite period and 13 have already served 25 years.
It is from this humanitarian perspective that we demand the immediate release of Gilad Shalit.
That is why our position is that Gilad Shalit, a member of the Israeli armed forces arrested in Israeli territory on 24 June 2006, meets the criteria for him to be considered a prisoner-of-war under the Third Geneva Convention.
So we are calling for the release of Shalit, but our position that we believe that this can be achieved by divorcing it from the overall picture in Palestine is apolitical.
Mr President, the resolution on Corporal Gilad Shalit, which we are examining today, supplements the many resolutions previously adopted by the European Parliament on the human rights situation in the Middle East.
Corporal Gilad Shalit, who has been held hostage for 1 355 days, must be released as soon as possible.
The young Franco-Palestinian, Salah Hamouri, who has been detained by the Israeli authorities since 13 March 2005, must be released.
The militants of the NonViolent Popular Resistance Against the Occupation, such as Abdallah Abu Rahmah from Bil'in, must be released.
It is time for the European Union to insist strongly that human rights and international law be respected in the Middle East.
Indeed, Gilad Shalit's father Noam has repeatedly confirmed that neither he nor his family is involved in politics.
The ideal scenario for us Europeans would be two states coexisting in peace and security.
Negotiations for Gilad's release have been going on right since 2006 via different intermediaries, with, in actual fact, one highly controversial proposal being put forward for him to be handed over in exchange for 1 000 Palestinian prisoners.
Gilad and his family need our help.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (CS) The case of Gilad Shalit has become a symbol of the endless desperation and frustration in the Middle East.
There are thousands of Palestinians who are being detained under totally unacceptable conditions, something that is contrary to international rules in every respect, and that is just as difficult a situation for them as it is for Gilad Shalit and his family.
I would also add a further point: it is important that we face up squarely to the cause of this suffering and that we realise that, if we do not do something, not only about the siege of Gaza, but also about the occupation of Palestine as a whole, and if we do not create a two-state solution which I believe all of us are calling for and want, there will be no future for these people.
The Shalit case proves once again that Europe and Israel are on the same side.
Israel is in the frontline of that war.
I would like to address my speech to those who are perhaps asking themselves the question: 'Why have a resolution on the Gilad Shalit case, and why now?' Other fellow Members have reminded us that it will soon be four years that young Gilad Shalit has been held hostage in brutal conditions and in breach of the international standards recognised by the Third Geneva Convention on the treatment of prisoners of war.
We urge Baroness Ashton to spare no effort to press for the release of Gilad Shalit and all the other Palestinian prisoners of war, especially those young people who are enduring this captivity. (PL) The case of Gilad Shalit has a particular, personal dimension.
I think that, today, we should demand very clearly the release of this young man, but let us also remember that those who are firing missiles at Sderot are responsible for the fact that he is still a prisoner. - (FI) Mr President, as we know, the background to this resolution was a very politically sensitive set of circumstances, but that ought not to prevent us from passing a clearly humanitarian resolution that is not watered down by general political remarks on the situation as a whole.
It stresses the idea that all parties involved in the crisis in the Middle East must comply with international humanitarian law and human rights legislation.
My former colleague Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner called urgently for Mr Shalit's release in this very House already on 5 July 2006, less than two weeks after his capture.
Finally, we are aware that mediation activities have been ongoing, aimed at the release of Gilad Shalit.
Of course our thoughts are with the family of Gilad Shalit.
Written Statements (Rule 149) in writing. - I wish to express my regret in view of the imprisonment of Gilad Shalit.
