I put this question to you, Mr President.
I would welcome your opinion on this matter.
For my part, I am in favour of a strong service, of a real European service that will represent an instrument of strategic coordination and a valuable interface between the Member States and the European institutions in the field of external policy.
This issue of the Greek accounts was addressed several times in euro area meetings.
I have three very specific questions.
My request then is that we pool all of these ideas in order to arrive at one coherent idea that comes from the Commission rather than from one or other of the Member States.
We want to prepare ourselves and, as Commissioner Rehn has already stated publicly, we are in the process of preparing a communication on strengthened economic policy coordination and monitoring by country at the euro area level and possibly even at a general European Union level.
In view of the fact that there is currently no real market in the European Union and no need for the cultivation of genetically modified starch potatoes - there are alternatives available for this - I would like to ask you why you have exerted so much pressure to get the genetically modified potato Amflora approved in a very brief and rapid procedure.
This is, I think, a reasonable position considering that there are deep differences among our Member States - some very much in favour, and some very much against.
The Commission takes a position based on the independent assessment given to us, not because a GMO is necessary, but if there is no evidence that it poses a risk to public health or the environment, we feel obliged to accept it, also in accordance with the obligations we have under the WTO, if there is nothing that prevents us - scientifically - from doing so. (Protests) That said, we respect very much the subsidiarity principle in the European Union. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I would like to assure you that I will be introducing a simpler topic than genetically modified organisms.
In my opinion, it is right and proper for the current economic crisis to be discussed in the European Parliament, and I am quite sure that citizens of the European Union and the Member States are definitely far more interested in employment and work than in genetically modified potatoes.
President of the Commission. - First of all, we fully respect the diversity of our Member States.
That is why we make that point very clearly in the EU 2020 strategy and why we address this issue of diversity very precisely with instruments like the social and economic cohesion policies.
The fact is that our Member States are not all the same.
President of the Commission. - Regarding the situation of Greece, we believe that Greece has taken the necessary steps to reduce the government deficit this year.
At the same time, we are doing what is required to secure the financial stability of the euro area as a whole.
The Commission has been actively working with euro area Member States to design a mechanism which Greece could use in case of need.
The Commission is ready to propose a European framework for coordinated assistance which would require the support of euro area Member States.
This is what I can tell you about Greece and about our response for euro area stability.
On 20 October 2009, the Commission began a programme of action in favour of efficient, solid derivative markets.
The legislative proposals that Commissioner Barnier will present before the summer, and also those concerning the market abuse directive that Commissioner Barnier will present before the end of the year, will increase market transparency and limit risks.
Because these markets are opaque, we are going to bring this issue to the G20 and we also have to raise some of these issues in our bilateral contacts, particularly with the United States.
Mr President, how fortunate that you anticipated my question.
President of the Commission. - As I said earlier, the basic problem regarding Greece - and it is important to say this - comes from excessive debt.
Last Friday, Commissioner Barnier organised a meeting in Brussels with the national regulators precisely to find out what we know about the action of some of these speculators against sovereign debt.
Commissioner Barnier will present some legislative proposals regarding the directive on derivatives before the summer and will also present a legislative proposal before the end of the year concerning the market abuse directive.
We intend to put the issue of credit default swaps to the G20 in June. (NL) Mr President, Commission President Barroso, openness and transparency are fundamental values in any self-respecting democracy.
According to reports in the Dutch press, President Barroso declared a sum of EUR 730 000 for 2009.
This is not only a ridiculously large amount but also another remarkable feat: managing to declare EUR 2 000 every day.
I insist that this Commission, and President Barroso in particular, abandon this conspiracy of silence and publish their declarations openly and transparently on the Internet for all European citizens to see.
In fact, the so-called representation expenses are expenses incurred in the service of the European Union, namely travel by myself and the other members of the Commission.
We give the budgetary authority and the Court of Auditors all the information they request from us. (NL) President Barroso claims that Parliament has access to the declarations, but of course that is nonsense.
The European Commission, the European Parliament and the European institutions in general have the highest standards in terms of transparency.
The fact is that the EU provides aid to Eritrea, and a total of EUR 122 million has been budgeted for Eritrea for the period 2009-2013.
President of the Commission. - Thank you for recognising that the Commission defends fundamental rights.
Of course we defend them, not only in the European Union, but also in our external relations.
The case of Eritrea raises concerns in terms of respect for fundamental rights in that country and also because of the extremely difficult situation in which that state exists.
We are, in fact, following the situation very closely in all countries that can pose a problem for the respect of fundamental rights. (PL) In the context of today's debate, I would like to draw attention to the question of scanners at European airports.
In the new 2020 strategy that I presented some time ago, we made it clear that cohesion will remain a central feature of our proposals, and we want cohesion to be considered all the time in future policies.
I recently visited Cairneyhill Primary School near Dunfermline in Scotland and I was approached by a boy called Douglas, who wanted to raise the case of an Eritrean girl called Rima Andmariam.
Rima managed to escape to Italy and then to Glasgow in Scotland where Alison and Robert Swinfin took her in and cared for her and looked after her as their own daughter.
I would like to make a general point.
In these political debates, you cannot expect the President of the Commission, even if he is a relatively hardworking person, to know about all the cases - which are extremely sensitive and extremely serious - that happen in Europe.
The President of the Republic absolutely cannot participate in the drafting of procedures and of decree-laws.
The President of the Republic's predecessor, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, considers it to be an aberrant distortion of our democratic system.
I wonder why Parliament is always ready to take a stand against countries that violate laws but does not acknowledge that there is a country among the 27 Member States that is violating laws. (The President cut off the speaker) Mrs Alfano, once again, please do not ask me to discuss domestic policy issues.
The Commission has responsibilities for fundamental rights when European law is being implemented, either by the European institutions or by the Member States.
From what I have understood from your speech, this is a typical problem concerning internal political debate, with perhaps a dimension relating to the law or the rule of law, but the European Commission has no business interfering in the conflicts between the various political forces or political personalities in each of our Member States. (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, the Charter of Fundamental Rights is, as yet, the only international document that prohibits discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
I would be very interested to know what the Commission is doing - what you intend to do - to enforce the fundamental rights of lesbians, gay men, bisexuals and transgender people in all parts of the EU so as to make it clear that homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation are no longer acceptable, not only in the area of employment, where, of course, we already have a directive, but in all areas, and so that people can live and choose their sexual relationships without fear.
These principles of non-discrimination, as you know and said, are enshrined in the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
President of the Commission. - I partly already answered the question while answering the previous question.
The United Kingdom and other countries have a protocol regarding the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In fact, it is one of the countries that has, over the centuries, made a most important contribution to democracy.
That is why I really regret that the United Kingdom does not want to be with all its partners in the front line to have human rights not only at national level but also as a European project. (PT) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, the rights of women and the right to live in dignity are fundamental human rights which must be promoted by the European Union.
In September, the Charter which we have now announced will be followed by a new strategy for gender equality.
This will provide us with a general and fairly comprehensive framework for action by the Commission regarding progress on equality between men and women in the areas which my fellow Member has just mentioned, from employment through to the other ways in which it is important to ensure and guarantee such equality.
The Charter has also appeared in commemoration of the 15 years since the Beijing Platform for Action, and it has come about after many consultations which I have had, especially with the group of Members of this House that is dedicated to the cause of women.
Article 121 of the Lisbon Treaty is, for the first time, being used to push through structural reforms in that country.
Mr Bufton, our topic is implementation of the new treaty and respect of fundamental rights, so please keep to this topic.
May I remind you, for instance, of the grave situation of Iceland, which is now asking to join the European Union precisely because Iceland hopes one day to join the euro as well.
The extent to which the unrestricted and uncontrolled storage of data or such access to data is compatible with the fundamental rights remains controversial.
President of the Commission. - The protection of personal data is a fundamental right explicitly recognised by Article 8 of the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
President of the Commission. - I am proud of the European Union for being the first, as far as I remember, to raise the issue with a United States President - a former President - of the need to respect fundamental rights and the rule of law, also when dealing with terrorism, namely regarding the issue of Guantánamo.
I would like to hear your opinion on these issues.
I myself have been raising the issue of human rights in summits with Heads of State or Government from third countries.
The European Union has established some 40 human rights dialogues with partner countries around the world which serve as dedicated fora for detailed discussions on that issue.
Under the European instrument for democracy and human rights, the Commission programmes around EUR 150 million each year to support human rights NGOs across the globe.
My question is: what is the European Commission doing to find a solution for this issue as a matter of urgency?
And does the President of the European Commission deem it acceptable that one country, namely Switzerland, takes a unilateral decision which affects all Schengen zone citizens, in particular, workers who need to enter Libya in order to earn their daily living?
President of the Commission. - We are very concerned with this case.
Commissioner Malmström has already said that the suspension by Libya of visas for citizens from the Schengen area is a disproportionate measure.
The European Union's Foreign and Justice Ministers discussed the issue on 22 February and 25 February respectively and supported the continuation of diplomatic efforts.
In the Laval, Rüffert, Viking and Luxembourg cases, the Court of Justice has consistently downgraded the value of trade union rights.
President of the Commission. - When these rulings were made public, we expressed our position very clearly.
However, I can tell you that, as I have said before, with the election of this Commission - and the Commissioner responsible has also said this - this is an issue that we will address shortly. (PL) Mr Barroso, I would like to ask about fundamental rights and the new treaty, including external action.
I believe these to be a priority yet, I am sorry to say, they are non-existent in Turkey.
However, we do not believe that it is yet compatible - in its standard of respect of fundamental rights and the rule of law - with European standards.
Each year, because Turkey is a candidate country to the European Union, the Commission assesses in very objective terms the reforms made by Turkey in the rule of law and all matters related to fundamental rights.
I believe that keeping up this dialogue - and, in fact, these negotiations - for Turkey's accession is indeed the right way to make progress in the matter of respect of fundamental rights and, generally speaking, the rule of law and democratic reforms in Turkey.
