The European Union wants normal relations with Iran, and our efforts on the nuclear issue are part of that.
In this context, I will continue, in my capacity as High Representative, the role of my predecessor, Javier Solana, in the international talks with Iran.
Iran must live up to its international obligations and treat detained persons in accordance with international human rights standards.
On the nuclear issue, we regret that Tehran has not followed up on the last meeting between Javier Solana and Jalili, the chief negotiator, on 1 October in Geneva.
The EU and its negotiating partners are all committed to finding a diplomatic solution to the Iranian nuclear issue, and to that end, we must continue to implement the dual-track approach.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the developments in the situation in Iran, one cannot help but express serious concern.
Yesterday was Martin Luther King Day.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, the European Parliament has paid close attention to the internal and foreign policy developments in Iran.
In that context, we must be highly critical of foreign companies such as Siemens and Nokia, whose technology is helping to make censorship possible and even more effective.
Isolating Iran would help neither its people nor its neighbours in the region.
These people need our support because they identify with our values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law.
Indeed, such is the desperation in Iran that opposition leader Mir Hossain Musavi, hardly known to be a democrat in the past, has said he is prepared to sacrifice his own life for the future good of his own country.
As a member of the Iran delegation, it is a particular concern of mine that the delayed trip to Iran be reinstated as soon as possible in order to improve bilateral communications with the EU and, in so doing, possibly also make a contribution, through the dialogue, to defusing the dramatic situation in Iran. (PL) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, Iran's internal situation is worsening dramatically from day to day and from week to week.
The European Union's High Representative, Catherine Ashton, should send a strong and clear message to the citizens of Iran, confirming our desire to defend human rights.
The question of a nuclear weapon is extremely important.
I come from Poland where, over 20 years ago, in 1989, tyranny gave place to democracy.
However, the role of the European Union in its relations with Iran must not be wasted on the nuclear question.
I know that this is a narrow window of opportunity, Mrs Ashton, but do you not think that we must do more and do better here, that we must help Iran's young people, who are proclaiming their outrage on the Internet, that we must denounce the recurring calls for the destruction of the State of Israel and, above all, that we must support this civil society and the opposition, this democratic movement which is defying this vote-robbing president and his militias?
We must avoid an escalation, I am very conscious of this, but we must also avoid evasion and not repeat the error that we made in Afghanistan where Europe was unable to protect Commander Massoud.
It is our duty to support the leaders of the Iranian opposition so that they avoid a similar fate. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation inside Iran is continuing to deteriorate.
At least eight people have been killed recently, the regime has stepped up arrests of women - female journalists, trade unionists and intellectuals - 30 mothers who were demanding news of their disappeared children have been arrested, and the grave of the young martyr for freedom, Neda Agha-Soltan, has been repeatedly desecrated by firearms bullets.
Europe should therefore forcefully voice its concerns because a military, nuclear power could jeopardise the continent's security and have significant political consequences for all the countries in the region. (DE) Mr President, even if the conflict in Iran often appears to be a power struggle between the old and the new establishment, it is still very clear to see that this very closed social system has very clear cracks.
Baroness Ashton, we ought to ask ourselves whether these requirements still exist in our relations with Iran and whether it really makes sense for us to send a delegation to Tehran without agreeing a programme with the Iranian Government which both sides endorse, one which will allow us to listen to the arguments and voices of the opposition, too.
I think that this could be a commitment taken on by this Parliament too, remembering that Neda Agha-Soltan was a student with a degree in philosophy, and that this symbol could unite the European Parliament as it calls upon UNESCO to take this action. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over recent weeks, we have seen the Iranian Government, or the Iranian regime, commit serious violations of human rights and the most basic democratic freedoms.
Ali Mehrnia, Parviz Varmazyari, Majid Rezaii, Alireza Nabavi, Ali Massoumi and Shirin Alavi Holi are reportedly being detained and subject to the death penalty for 'Mohareb', which means enmity against God.
Other women activists and their families are detained: Atefeh Nabavi, Shabnam Madadzadeh, Mahsa Naderi, Fatemeh Ziaee Azad and Nazila Dashti.
Eight activists from the Committee of Human Rights Reporters are detained: Saeed Kalanaki, Saeed Jalalifar, Shiva Nazar-Ahari, Kouhyar Goudarzi, Saeed Haeri, Parisa Kakayi and Mehrdad Rahimi.
Four others went into hiding after being summoned to the Ministry of Intelligence: Hesam Misaghi, Saeed Habibi, Navid Khanjani and Sepeher Atefi.
There is the suppression of dissent and of the opposition, there are very serious restrictions on civil rights, there are infringements of freedoms, there is a worrying nuclear programme and there is a threat relating to Israel and peace.
In a way, these events recall moments from 60 years ago.
Let us remember: the problem in this case is not so much that there is so much bad - it is more the case that the good keep silent. (PL) Mr President, the end of last year saw the biggest opposition protests in Iran since the demonstrations which followed the presidential election in June, when the serving president was announced victor.
Students supporting the opposition were attacked on the university campus, which brought a reaction from 88 of the university's professors in the form of an appeal to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei to stop using force against the demonstrators.
The situation in Iran is causing rising alarm, and this is also true at international level.
Israel's Prime Minister has also appealed for the introduction of severe international sanctions against Iran.
The patience which the international community has shown in conducting dialogue with Tehran is now coming to an end.
The world must not be held hostage by the aggressive and provocative policy of the current political leadership in Iran.
I would like to know your point of view on the timetable and the nature of possible sanctions precisely so that we can make a clear link between the internal events in Iran and the nuclear issue. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to carry on listing the reasons for our disagreement with the Iranian Government.
From now on, I would like the delegation to start singing from a new hymn sheet and to sustain relations of assistance, support and debate with the exiled representatives of the opposition, not least Mrs Myriam Rajavi, who typifies this situation.
We need seriously to support civil society and the democratic opposition, including the Council of National Resistance, which is the only organisation that has come out with a very clear democratic programme for a nuclear-free Iran. (DE) Mr President, the German newspaper, Süddeutsche Zeitung, reported today that yesterday, Monday, the office of public prosecution in Tehran demanded the death penalty for five opposition figures.
According to Amnesty International, these five opposition figures are 17-year old Ali Mehrnia, 54-year old Parviz Varmazyari, plus Majid Rezaii, Alireza Mabavi and Ali Massoumi.
I have one very concrete question to you, Baroness Ashton.
Only yesterday, as you have heard, a kangaroo court in Tehran called for the death penalty against five protesters arrested during the Ashura riots on 27 December.
The legitimacy of the Iranian regime following the very dubious elections last June is questionable to say the least.
Mrs Ashton, you can be sure of the full support that our Parliament will give you in order to reject this type of behaviour.
Europe must be the main witness to what is the rule of law. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Ashton, Iran is a key country, affecting the stabilisation of peace worldwide and in part of the Middle East.
I think we should see very active dialogue and engagement in this matter on the part of Mrs Ashton. (DE) Mr President, in this context, as always, I would like to point out that we here in Europe actually only recognise individual liability and reject blanket suspicion on principle.
Members, too, have made the point that in the end, as you said, Mr Gualtieri, the dialogue must be inevitable.
