Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Mr President, I want to give an explanation of vote on the calendar for 2012.
It is true - and my fellow Members are right on this point - that the current situation is untenable, but we are not obliged to make Brussels the Washington DC of the European Union.
Equally, this cannot be justified as a cost saving, as the costs - which, by the way, amount to EUR 70 million, which is plenty - do not arise as a result of Strasbourg, but rather because activities are continually being rerouted, contrary to the Treaty, into the shadows of Brussels' bureaucracy.
Were we to concentrate our work in Strasbourg, we would both save money and have an independent democratic face in Europe! (DE) Mr President, I asked to speak on the budget negotiations because I believe that the European Parliament does not always receive fair treatment in this connection.
As MEPs, we, too, need to support economising, but it is also quite simply the case that we must fulfil our responsibilities properly.
Its location is crucial for the economic and political interests of the Union and gives it an important role in promoting European activities in the Black Sea area, as well as promoting peaceful relations in the Middle East.
The 2010 report on the progress made in the negotiations for Turkey's accession to the European Union does, however, show the sluggishness of the process and the resistance of the political forces in Turkey to some of the fundamental provisions of the association agreement.
The economic interests in the region cannot allow us to make concessions on fundamental rights and freedoms.
Parliament's resolution looks at this situation with a determined approach, urging the Commission and the Council not to waste the positive results achieved since 2005 and, above all, not to void the existing bilateral agreement with the idea of a privileged partnership.
My worry is that this partnership idea could compromise the acceleration of the accession process, which must remain our overall goal. (PL) Mr President, water covers the greater part of our globe.
Therefore, it is essential to draw up the right strategy for the Atlantic region - one which will enhance good management and contribute to protection of the environment and a better life for the people of the region. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, discussion of this resolution must be built around Directive 2008/56/EC, the so-called Marine Strategy Framework Directive.
As my fellow Member who spoke earlier said, the context is the protection of the marine environment because the directive I mentioned sets out common principles on the basis of which the Member States must develop their own strategies together with third countries in order to achieve good environmental conditions in the marine waters for which they are responsible.
Recent years have shown that Turkey's efforts to become one of the European Union's Member States are having positive effects.
The Union's Member States should continue to support Turkey in the reforms it is undertaking.
It is necessary to concentrate, in particular, on the most problematic issues, such as constitutional reform, freedom of the press, women's rights and the protection of national minorities.
I would also like to draw attention to the problem of implementation of the Additional Protocol to the EC-Turkey Association Agreement. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the resolution on Turkey because the constitutional reform that took place 12 September last was unanimously recognised as an important step forward made by Turkey in relation to Europe.
I therefore applaud the notable progress made in terms of getting started on connections between the European Union and Turkey, in particular, through the motorways of the sea that cross the northern Adriatic and the northern Tyrrhenian seas, which now see a flow of more than 250 000 truckloads per year in both directions, together with an important heavy-goods railway freight link from ports to destinations within Europe.
Without a solution to the Cyprus issue, all other issues will be at a permanent impasse.
The situation is similar when we look at civil liberties, including religious freedom.
I hope the conclusions of the report will allow progress to be achieved in Turkey, and a recognition that the country is changing not only in economic terms but also in matters which are important from the point of view of civil rights and freedom. (PL) Mr President, as a member of last year's parliamentary delegation to Turkey, I had the opportunity to see for myself the progress Turkey is making in the process of integration with the European Union.
Particular attention should be given to the questions of opening the border between Turkey and Armenia and support for negotiations on stabilising the situation in Cyprus.
The reason I abstained from voting was that I believe that the European Parliament must be much clearer in its response.
It is time that this House called for the cessation of accession negotiations. (FI) Mr President, it is absolutely true that Turkey has made progress in recent years, but when we look at the Copenhagen criteria for membership of the European Union, Turkey still has a long way to go.
It is also very important to consider the situation in Cyprus.
If Turkey wants to occupy half of Cyprus, which is a Member State of the European Union, we obviously have to be tough with them on that.
We could have reasonably pursued one of two policies.
As for the progress in question, it is in the interests of Turkey itself, a country that is a member of the Council of Europe and NATO and our closest ally. (PL) Mr President, I would like to refer to the discussion which took place in this Chamber on the integration of Montenegro into the European Union.
During the discussion, I asked the representative of the Commission and the Council for a timetable for this process and to say when Montenegro can become a fully fledged candidate for EU membership.
However, I think there is a third, very important reason: it is a positive resolution and one which shows that the Union's values are still attractive. (DE) Mr President, when it comes to enlargement policy, we need something along the lines of a regulatory framework.
Unlike Turkey, these are European States to the core, and as such, they naturally have a future within our Community.
A significant proportion of European Roma face such precarious and unfavourable conditions that measures aimed at fostering social inclusion must be thought of as bridging one of the largest gaps in the fulfilment of constitutional and human rights in Europe. (DA) Mr President, it is always an emotional debate when we discuss the Roma here in Parliament.
The Danish Liberal Party has therefore voted in favour of this report.
Thank you, Mr President. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's adoption of the own-initiative report, Parliament has made real progress towards the proper inclusion of Roma in the communities that host them.
Overcoming the marginalisation of Roma communities by fully recognising their fundamental rights to healthcare, education and the protection of vulnerable groups is absolutely incumbent upon us.
We also welcome better coordination with local and regional bodies as well as the improvement of the part of the text providing for concrete checks on the consistency and effectiveness of financing compared to the expected result, together with the part that introduces award criteria for Member States that guarantee appropriate use of the resources granted.
Shockingly unhygienic illegal slums, a huge school dropout rate, illegal activities such as theft, receiving stolen goods, women and children being led into prostitution, begging, refusal of all offers of integration and job support proposed by local authorities: this is the reality of many Roma communities in my country and in other European countries.
It is a bit hypocritical to say that responsibility always and only lies with institutions and never with those who have chosen to inflict this behaviour on society.
Lastly, I regret that this text fails to make reference to the correct implementation of Directive 2004/38/EC, which sets out stringent requirements for European citizens residing in another Member State and their expulsion for public safety reasons.
The firm appeal made by France, Romania, Bulgaria and Finland to the European Commission is certainly to be welcomed.
The Commission does, however, need to take greater responsibility for an active, strategic and leading role in developing the implementation of an effective Roma inclusion strategy.
The report is inspired by a keen perception of the extremely heterogeneous cultural aspects between different Roma communities in Europe.
Indeed, we need to fight economic and social discrimination against European Roma, which has increased as a result of the current economic crisis.
The European Union must develop a new legal framework and avoid continuing to deal with this problem through non-binding legislation, as this is insufficient and not suitable for achieving the goal in question.
It is equally important to maintain the Roma task force as a permanent organisation and to start thinking about a mechanism for this issue which would be similar to the one used to assess the internal market.
Lastly, Europe must make every effort to guarantee its citizens - and particularly the most vulnerable groups - protection of all human rights related to human dignity.
In the end, the overall inclusion of Roma is essentially a question of fundamental rights, even if we have to ask the Roma communities to try and integrate and not to close themselves in their own world where they do not respect European and national laws. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's vote, we have given a further boost to the - how should I put it - definitive solution to this problem, but we have not adopted the best possible solution.
Indeed, I should like to point out that the more than 300 amendments presented on the reports have been transformed into 38 compromise amendments - all of which were adopted - that aim to better define the priority sectors of the strategy, which is to say, the objectives of this strategy.
However, we could have been even more incisive and less hypocritical if, in the report, we had looked at the obligations and duties that the Roma community ought in any case to respect in their host countries.
That is what I am hoping for, namely, that we will soon find the solutions that will enable this community to coexist more easily in all Member States. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no more children who do not go to school, no more children forced into begging or being exploited.
The aim must be to use the resources available as efficiently as possible, beginning with European funds and avoiding local administrations having to take on all the problems and dealing with constant emergencies.
It is obvious that the role of the Commission and local authorities will be crucial, above all, in terms of controlling and managing European Union funds.
Kali sarakosti: Happy Lent to you all. (SK) Mr President, we are talking about Roma integration issues.
It is interesting to note that, although freedom and democracy have been established in Western European countries for longer than in Central and Eastern countries, among which is my own country as well as our neighbours in Hungary, we see similar problems both in the West and in the East.
According to the laws currently in force, access to education and healthcare is guaranteed everywhere, and it is just sad that the Roma population often do not send their children to school to be educated. (FI) Mr President, efharisto, thank you.
This report by Mrs Járóka is an excellent one.
I think that everyone in this House will share the view that it really is time to take action at European Union level to ensure that everybody enjoys equal human rights.
It is also very important to organise followup for this report.
This is the way to tackle this issue properly and successfully. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent and profound economic crisis that has hit European industry has simultaneously highlighted its importance for the European Union's economy.
Indeed, the European economy has often been focused on the idea that the markets ought to regulate themselves and so far, this has mostly been achieved through individual measures with practically no coordination between Member States.
However, the Europe 2020 strategy recognises for the first time the need for a new approach with a flagship initiative.
I think the response contained in this resolution is extremely positive, because it manages to bring together the variables required to build a good economic revival plan.
The idea of concentrating on research and innovation, bearing in mind the size of our entrepreneurial fabric is very important and I think it gives a useful shot in the arm to the perhaps slightly more conservative stance of the Commission.
I appreciate the work of the rapporteur, Mr Lange, who has managed to integrate more than 500 amendments, bringing in a resolution that overall makes a huge contribution to our work.
I maintain my complete opposition on this issue, but this has not prevented me from voting in favour of what is a very positive report. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report shines a light on many positive aspects and mirrors the considerations and requirements expressed by the various national associations.
It is now imperative to tackle the question of European provisions on origin marking, which, in my opinion, is an indispensable tool to strengthen and improve European industry and its competitiveness.
Thank you. (SK) Mr President, industrial policy must, as part of economic policy, aim for sustainable growth, higher employment and a decent quality of life for all Europeans.
European industry is facing powerful competitive pressure from developing countries.
A functional internal market must be adequately secured by negotiating favourable conditions in trade agreements with third countries, but also by means of protection against unfair competition and infringements of competition and intellectual and industrial property rights by third countries.
The EU has great potential for securing a competitive advantage in the area of highly qualified human resources and the creation of innovative technologies, which is necessarily linked to further investment in research and development. (PL) Mr President, industrial products account for nearly three quarters of European exports and give work to 57 million citizens, not including extra jobs in related services.
As we learn the lessons of the recent economic crisis and the growing competition in world markets, it is essential to take what action is necessary to maintain the strong position of European industry and also to continue its systematic development.
Here, the Europe 2020 strategy seems to be an attempt at a new approach, one which makes full use of opportunities for sustainable modernisation and development of the industrial base of Member States while also ensuring a high quality of work.
The integrated industrial policy, which is intended to bring about a gradual and sustainable transition from a mainly productive towards a knowledge-based industry, looks particularly promising.
Therefore, I fully support the resolution. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be inconceivable for a sector that accounts for 57 million jobs across the European Union, three quarters of European exports of industrial goods, and roughly one third of gross value added in the European Union, to be left without support from appropriate sectoral policies targeted at growth and development.
Defending the Union's interests in future negotiations, so as to protect industry and employment, is an unavoidable necessity to help overcome the crisis and ensure that, along with the manufacturing sector, the real economy takes precedence over the financial economy, avoiding those speculative bubbles that caused so much disaster. (DE) Mr President, I consider it to be very important that we should be able to debate this report and also to vote on it today.
It would be best, of course, if crises simply did not occur, but it would be worse if no lessons were learnt from crises when they do occur.
It is precisely because we learnt from the last crisis that we are getting involved in industrial policy in the European Union again, especially as, before the last crisis, there were quite a large number of people who believed that money could be easily earned with money.
Economic and industrial policy, after all, is critical to our prosperity in the European Union.
I therefore believe it is extraordinarily important that we have engaged on this issue.
It is a good thing, of course, to be involved in innovation and future-oriented industrial policy, but I think it is just as important that we have emphasised our traditional industry in this report.
Indeed, it is well known that some countries allegedly have a high corporation tax but, in reality, they pay far less. (GA) Be that as it may, this is a fine report and I am very happy to support it. (PL) Mr President, the resolution which is the product of the debate on the real economy is most deserving of support.
The recent period has been characterised, above all, by the challenge which globalisation has presented to European industrial policy and real production in Europe.
How the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy can be achieved, in particular, those of job creation and resisting delocalisation of industrial policy, is a fundamental question which was discussed during the debate on the subject of the resolution.
Another important task is to make use of the synergies which exist between different areas of European Union policy, including between industrial/agricultural policy, for example, and commercial policy.
Thank you. (ES) Mr President, I voted for this initiative because the European Union has to make a firm commitment to industrial policy and face up to the risks of the crisis, to competition from third countries, and to globalisation with increased public funding that is reflected in the future framework programme.
This will enable us to create skilled jobs.
You currently have two factories, but by having only one factory, you could increase productivity while reducing costs by £150 million and protecting the environment.
In a house that obsesses with green policy, some choose to needlessly pump 20 000 tonnes of carbon monoxide into the environment.
I voted for Amendment 1 to the draft of the European Parliament's calendar of part-sessions for 2012 and 2013.
Despite the fact that I understand the symbolic nature of plenary part-sessions held at the Strasbourg seat of Parliament, given the current critical financial situation in Europe, we need to look for savings, and this is what this amendment means.
in writing. - I voted for Amendment 1, which deletes the part-session proposed for week 40 in 2012.
in writing. - As one of the co-signatories of the key amendment, I am glad it has been adopted.
The calendar of part-sessions for 2012 should now be amended as follows: delete the part-session proposed for week 40 (1 to 4 October); split the October II part-session (22 to 25 October) into two separate part-sessions: part-session 1: 22 and 23 October; part-session 2: 25 and 26 October.
The outcome of this vote sets a fundamental precedent along the road which I hope will one day lead to the concentration of all of Parliament's activities in a single place.
Putting the two October plenary sessions together in the 2012 official calendar sends a very strong signal and I am optimistic that the path we have taken is more honest and in tune with citizens' wishes.
in writing. - According to European law, 12 plenary sessions must take place every year at the Strasbourg seat of the European Parliament.
The vote on changing the calendar to allow two of these Strasbourg sessions to take place within the same week reflects our desire as MEPs to cut costs and CO2 emissions.
I therefore support this report, which will enable us to hold the required 12 plenary sessions in 11 weeks, thus cutting the cost and environmental impact of our work.
I voted for Amendment 1, which proposed combining the two October part-sessions and holding them in the same week in the European Parliament's session for 2012.
in writing. - Today, Parliament voted on its calendar for 2012 and 2013.
This means that MEPs will not have to move to Strasbourg 12 times a year, but 11 times to incorporate 12 sessions in Strasbourg.
The monthly 'travelling circus' from Brussels to Strasbourg has become synonymous with waste, both in terms of the EUR 200 million spent on it, and the 20 000 tonnes of CO2 emitted.
Around 350 MEPs supported the amendment that would sandwich two of our sessions into one week, thus saving the costs, time and energy of the return journeys.
It will also send a positive signal to our electorate.
I disagree, however, that the calendar of 2013 was put to vote together in this plenary.
It is clearly a manoeuvre not to further extend this procedure during this legislature.
The Treaties designate Strasbourg as the seat of Parliament and stipulate that 12 part-sessions must be held there annually.
Outside these part-sessions in Strasbourg, meetings of the parliamentary committees and additional part-sessions are held in Brussels.
In 1997, the Court of Justice clearly established the principle that the European Parliament must meet every month in Strasbourg.
They have the legitimacy of the law and of 50 years' history of European integration on their side.
in writing. - I voted to change the 2012 calendar to save taxpayers' money, to save CO2 emissions and to lessen the disruption to Parliament business by the monthly trip to Strasbourg.
The European Treaties explicitly state that Strasbourg shall be the only seat of the European Parliament, and that 12 part-sessions shall be held there annually.
However, a vote was held this week with a view to merging two Strasbourg part-sessions in the same week, in October 2012 and October 2013.
The democrat MEPs voted against that decision.
France, for its part, has already announced that it will shortly refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union.
As far as I am concerned, this vote completely contradicts the spirit of the EU Treaties, which explicitly state that Strasbourg shall be the seat of the European Parliament and that 12 part-sessions shall be held there annually.
However, the Strasbourg seat has historical references and is referred to in legal texts, and it should not be called into question by these multiple attacks.
I voted in favour of the changes to Parliament's official calendar for 2012, because I think it is right to try and limit wastage of economic and other resources as we carry out our parliamentary duties.
The decision to hold the two October plenary sessions in the same week actually means we can avoid a double journey to Strasbourg, with all that this entails in terms of resource saving.
I voted in favour of the proposed changes to Parliament's calendar of plenary sessions for 2012 and 2013 because I think that, even fully respecting the Treaties, it is, in any case, possible to bring two part-sessions of Parliament together in a single week, avoiding going over to Strasbourg twice in the same month.
This will allow us to cut down the costs of the European institutions and avoid wasting time and money.
The EU Treaties require Parliament to hold 12 sessions in Strasbourg each year.
By stopping the practice of travelling to Strasbourg twice in one month, the Parliament can set an example in reducing its CO2 emissions and saving public money.
in writing. - I voted for Amendment 1 which deleted the part-session proposed for week 40 in 2013.
in writing. - As one of the co-signatories of the key amendment, I am glad it has been adopted.
The calendar of part-sessions for 2013 should now be amended as follows: delete the part-session proposed for week 40 (30 Sep to 3 Oct); split the October II part-session (21 to 24 October) into two separate part-sessions: part-session 1: 21 and 22 October; part-session 2: 24 and 25 October.
The outcome of this vote sets a fundamental precedent along the road which I hope will one day lead to the concentration of all of Parliament's activities in a single place.
Putting the two October plenary sessions together in the 2013 official calendar sends a very strong signal and I am optimistic that the path we have taken is more just and in tune with citizens' wishes.
I rejected these amendments and will be instituting infringement proceedings at the European Court of Justice.
The Conference of Presidents should not have allowed this motion to go to a vote.
At a time of economic and financial crisis in Europe, when the public are obliged to cut back on their personal expenditure, both the EU and national institutions should follow suit.
This should not, however, prevent the necessary public investment which translates into medium- and long-term gain.
I would stress that the impact of the Treaty of Lisbon's entry into force in heading 5 should become stable in 2012, although the accession of Croatia planned for 2013 will have an impact on the 2012 budget.
Faced with the present situation, some institutions may have some difficulties in maintaining a balanced budget.
in writing. - I voted against the Fernandes report on budget priorities for 2012 because the European Parliament is still going to look for a 5% increase in its budget even though the rest of the European institutions will confine themselves to 1%.
I voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the general framework and priorities for the 2012 budget in the area of funding the EU institutions.
Faced with the continuing economic crisis, it is very important to ensure good financial management in order to implement the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
I therefore believe that the European Parliament and the other institutions should show budgetary responsibility and self-restraint.
I welcome the establishment of a new Section X in the EU budget for the European External Action Service, with an allocation of EUR 464 million.
However, I would like to call on this Service to use the funds earmarked for it to implement its activities and achieve concrete results.
I voted in favour of this report.
Next year's budget must be responsibly balanced, with priority being given to those areas that are inextricably linked with the EU 2020 strategy.
It is necessary to ensure sufficient resources for the EU institutions so that they can perform their functions properly.
I voted for this document because I think that the Fernandes report on the budget priorities for 2012 appropriately identifies the directions to follow next year.
I approve of and support the idea presented in the report about giving priority to the internal recruitment of staff.
This will help increase efficiency through using the experience previously acquired, while also reducing training costs and the costs involved in adapting to a brand new organisational culture.
At the same time, it is important to compare in detail the actual expenditure with that budgeted during 2011 and to pinpoint exactly the causes of significant variations.
The report on the priorities for the 2012 budget of Parliament and the other European institutions, for which I voted, goes some way toward taking account of the economic, financial and social situation that we are experiencing.
This report advocates legislative excellence, cutting costs, reducing the impact on the environment, and a zero-based increase; that is, an increase in line with inflation.
It also takes into account the possible accession of Croatia in 2013.
I agree with the report on the guidelines for the 2012 budgetary process, which stresses the need to consolidate the resources required to address the new institutional framework resulting from the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The current crisis and the heavy burden of public debt lead to an urgent need for self-restraint, taking into account the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
It is worth highlighting the fact that certain investments, particularly in technology, could result in future savings in the long term, and therefore, these should not be prevented.
I would also stress that proposals for reducing paper, energy and water consumption, along with emissions, should be tabled as part of the organisational culture of Parliament and the other institutions.
in writing. - I voted to restrict the EP budget for 2012, given the economic, financial and social constraints on EU Member States.
I would also stress the importance of subjecting the management of these resources to higher standards of rigour and efficiency, under stricter and more transparent control.
It is equally important to encourage the creation of synergies and avoid unnecessary duplications in terms of personnel and functions.
in writing. - When this House considers budget priorities, it does so in the context of massive public sector cuts in EU Member States, rising unemployment, increasing household bills and overall economic uncertainty, both nationally and in many families.
This is partly because it so clearly emphasises the importance of economy and restraint in these difficult economic times and partly because it welcomes the allocation of EUR 464 million to the European External Action Service, the important activities of which are in the area that the EU ought to be focusing on.
We Swedish Social Democrats voted in favour of the report on the priorities for the 2012 budget for the European Parliament and other institutions.
The report adopts a critical and questioning stance towards a number of budgetary proposals involving high costs and recommends that Parliament's budget for next year increase by no more than the rate of inflation; in other words, it should not change at all in real terms compared with 2011.
However, we would like to point out that we would have preferred an even more restrictive approach to be taken to Parliament's budget for 2012 that also included proposals for savings and redistributions to finance new requirements.
The Commission advocates a rate of increase of a maximum of 1% for the EU institutions' administrative budgets for next year - an initiative that we believe should be supported.
Taking the current financial, economic and social situation in the EU into due consideration, it is increasingly important that the institutions respond with the quality and efficiency that is required, and that they employ strict management procedures so that savings may be achieved.
It is now necessary to make efforts to fully achieve the objectives enshrined in the Europe 2020 strategy, focusing on growth and job creation.
It is also necessary to strike a sustained balance and make an effort towards consolidation in all the categories of the budget.
It is therefore important to maintain a prudent approach with regard to administrative expenditure.
In conclusion, Parliament should maintain the principle of legislative excellence, respect the principle of good management and transparency, and ensure a spirit of budgetary responsibility in the general framework and priorities for the 2012 budget.
The report 'sets the principle of legislative excellence as a priority'.
We agree completely about the 'importance of equal treatment of Members of all nationalities and languages in terms of the possibility for them to carry out the duties and political activity incumbent upon them in their own language'.
However, this involves much more than ensuring interpretation services in committee meetings, as the rapporteur suggests.
However, we advocate the fair matching of work resources - both material and human - available to Parliament to the needs and scope of Parliament's work, without exaggerating the costs or possible savings, and without undermining Parliament's work.
The report by Mr Fernandes concerns the guidelines for the 2012 budget procedure for the European institutions.
Amongst other things, the report provides for greater rigour -given this tough time of economic crisis - in terms of the bureaucratic management of the European organisational system.
I voted in favour of adopting this report, which lays down guidelines for the 2012 budget procedure: a general framework and budgetary priorities for the functioning of the European institutions (except the European Commission).
Our report supports, in particular, the reduction in the European Parliament's budget in view of the Member States' economic, financial and social situation, and I welcome that.
I agreed with this report, because it is very important to give priority to the principles of good management, namely, economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
In a context of economic crisis, the heavy burden of public debt and restraint in times of ongoing national budgetary consolidation efforts, the European Parliament and the other institutions should show budgetary responsibility and self-restraint.
Parliament's goal should be to develop legislative excellence and all the necessary resources should be available for this purpose, while respecting budgetary constraints.
In the current economic, financial and social climate, the budgetary procedure guidelines for 2012 present a real challenge, especially because the European Union's institutions are being forced to make considerable savings but, at the same time, they need to have sufficient resources to enable them to carry out their activities with the highest level of professionalism and efficiency.
In this respect, I express my support for better interinstitutional support with a view to exchanging practices which will result in a strategy for strengthening ties between Europe and its citizens, while maintaining budget austerity and making savings so that the Europe 2020 agenda objectives can be implemented successfully.
Although the 2012 budget for Parliament and the other institutions should be about consolidation, this should not create obstacles preventing investments, since investment projects ensure the smooth operation of Europe's economies.
Last but not least, I support the rapporteur's point that it is unacceptable to have no interpretation services available during the meetings of the European Parliament's committees, as MEPs must be allowed to use their mother tongue.
The 2012 and 2013 budgets will be consolidation budgets aimed at reflecting the Member States' spending cutbacks and setting a benchmark for the levels that will be established in the next financial framework.
The aim of this budget must be excellence, which means pursuing the objectives of economy, efficiency and effectiveness using as little as possible of the available resources.
In order to respect the approach of containing expenses, I hope that all the institutions will send the necessary information in advance in order to set out a general framework of administrative expenses so that the Budget Authority can take decisions on the use of resources following a multiannual, sustainable approach that aims for the comparability of the information provided over time and across the institutions.
This report has the great merit of stressing the need for MEPs to carry out their duties in their own language.
This new situation leads to two problems: increased costs arising from the need for more assistants, and additional space required in order for them to carry out their duties in good working conditions.
in writing. - Although the report contains the main guidelines and priorities for the 2012 budget, including the standards of legislative work in the European Parliament, I do not think that the budget increase in terms of the rate of inflation is correct or justified.
The expenditure ceiling for the multiannual financial framework of the European Union budget for 2012 was increased once again.
Labelling it as due to the economic and financial crisis, the European Union has simply put a few plans on hold but not made any real savings, despite selling these acts as major savings.
I therefore voted against this report.
Parliament will have to adopt a budget to consolidate the future financial framework and the additional human resources needed to meet the requirements of the Treaty of Lisbon, and to improve and complete the buildings available, information technology and interpreting services.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that the current financial, economic and social situation in the EU cannot prevent the institutions from employing strict management procedures so that the necessary savings may be achieved.
I voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the 2012 budget procedure because I think that the current economic crisis - which right now has repercussions on employment above anything else - requires a joint effort on cutting back from the Member States and the European institutions.
I therefore agree with the statement that in the current circumstances, the general principle for European financing is to follow an ethos of budgetary austerity.
In particular, I think it would be a particularly good idea to consider a better distribution of Parliament's information offices in the Member States and their more strategic location, partly in the light of the latest upheavals in neighbouring States.
in writing. - I voted in favour even if I would have preferred that some amendments concerning the need for the EP to reduce its number of places of work to one did not pass.
The guidelines for the 2012 budget are based on a balance between the need to give the European institutions sufficient and appropriate resources to carry out their activities, and the need to find a quality and efficient response in the face of the current financial, economic and social crisis.
The submitted proposal points out that the institutions may have difficulties in maintaining the financial discipline and restraint needed to comply with the multiannual financial programme, particularly with regard to heading 5.
As regards the Parliament, this document, for which I voted, includes the needs arising from Croatia's accession in 2013, the increase in the number of MEPs by 18 and the need for extra staff following the Treaty of Lisbon's entry into force.
For the other institutions, it is worth pointing out the new Section X on the External Action Service which, with the new Treaty, will respond to the financial needs arising from the creation of an ambitious institutional framework to support EU foreign policy.
In order to stop the automatic process of increased budgetary demands equating to an increase in the budget, now is the time that potential savings in the EU budget must be identified.
I am voting for this resolution because a strategy for the Atlantic region is essential for EU territorial cohesion, especially in the context of the eastward enlargement of EU borders.
It is worth noting that our approach to the Atlantic can only be less one toward a peripheral region and more one that affirms its geo-centrality in the world as part of a strategic orientation that puts the region at its centre.
A strategy for the Atlantic region in which the Member States and their regions participate should also prioritise new areas of innovation in the economy and science, in particular, new products and services linked to the environment, to renewable and marine energy, to food-related marine biotechnology, to health and smart technology-intensive products and services.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the European strategy for the Atlantic region.
Five EU Member States are situated along the Atlantic coast - France, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
I would like to recall that one of the first strategies of this kind is the EU strategy for the Baltic Sea region approved by the European Council, covering 8 EU Member States, including my own country, Lithuania.
This strategy has already been successfully initiated, and I therefore feel that the European strategy for the Atlantic region would be beneficial not just for this region, but for the whole of the EU.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which 'asks the Commission to shape as soon as possible the EU strategy for the Atlantic region as an integrated strategy dealing with maritime and territorial issues'.
It is an outlying area within the European Union, with major accessibility and connectivity problems.
I feel that there is an urgent need to adopt this strategy, which will help address this region's fundamental problems as regards opening up, the interconnection of transport and energy networks and the development of marine energy, the development of urban and rural areas, and the intensification of land-sea ties and of sea-interior waters ties.
I agree with Parliament's resolution on the European strategy for the Atlantic region, which I believe is of great importance, as five Member States have an Atlantic coast: France, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the UK.
European territorial cooperation, which is consolidated in this strategy through the aforementioned aspects, can contribute widely to the intensification of the integration process within the Atlantic region through greater participation by civil society in the decision-making process and the implementation of concrete measures.
As a Member elected by a country in the Atlantic region, I must highlight the importance and the need to create a European strategy which takes the geographic, demographic and economic characteristics of this region into account.
An integrated and joined-up strategy needs to be created to ensure a synergy and consistency between sectoral policies in this area, creating the added value necessary to address the challenges of sustainable development and competitiveness of this region in particular, and of Europe in general.
This should enable the identification of common problems and challenges, and of shared priorities, and the creation of the synergies needed to promote more efficient resource use.
It is important not only to improve the competitiveness and sustainability of the traditional sectors, but also to exploit the full potential of the Atlantic area, with new markets, products and services, guided by two main priorities: protection of the environment and ecosystems, and job creation.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I support the need for the Commission to establish, as rapidly as possible, a European strategy for the Atlantic region which addresses maritime and territorial issues.
This strategy should address issues of common interest, such as the environment and climate change, marine energy, maritime transport, maritime security and surveillance, fisheries, tourism, research and innovation.
The Azores, Madeira and Cape Verde should also be included and have a prominent role in this strategy.
On 14 June 2010, the Council asked the Commission to draw up a European strategy for the Atlantic region within one year, as it is a peripheral territory with special characteristics in terms of both its potential and its environmental fragility.
Therefore, given its importance at global level, a strategy is required that is ambitious and takes into account its maritime and territorial aspects.
This resolution represents a fundamental contribution to drawing up the strategy as it draws attention to crucial aspects such as the need to seek out synergies with other policies on the environment, energy, transport, tourism, marine resources, and others, to adopt a macro-regional policy and move towards the international approach that is needed for good relations with countries that have Atlantic coasts.
I welcome Parliament's adoption of this resolution, as I am convinced that this EU strategy for the Atlantic region will speed up sustainable growth in this area and put maritime issues at the top of the European agenda.
Every phase of these strategies - preparation, formulation and implementation - should actively involve the countries and regions that are within their geographic scope, and should be based on cooperation between those countries and regions.
These strategies can and should address issues of common interest, such as, in the case of this specific proposal of the European strategy for the Atlantic region: marine energy, environmental preservation, including the prevention and fight against marine pollution, transport and access, research and innovation, among others.
The resolution also proposes the subordination of the strategy to EU foreign policy, to international trade policy objectives, to the Europe 2020 strategy and to the achievement of 'the aims of the internal market'.
Every phase of these strategies - preparation, formulation and implementation - should actively involve the countries and regions that are within their geographic scope, and should be based on cooperation between those countries and regions.
I strongly support what is being done at EU level to establish an integrated strategy for the Atlantic region.
The Atlantic strategy must focus on stimulating economic development of the Atlantic islands and the Atlantic coastal region.
There is true growth potential there; for example, developing strategic marinas in each country.
The maritime transport, ports and seafood sectors - including aquaculture - in particular would benefit from the establishment of closer collaboration among the Member States bordering the Atlantic.
Any strategy for the Atlantic must comply with the provisions of the common fisheries policy.
The adoption of a parliamentary resolution on the draft strategy for the Atlantic region is an opportunity for me to point out the urgent need to work at European level on a common approach regarding the use of our maritime areas and to find a joint solution to the problems that exist.
This concentration of activities calls for serious thought to be given to the issue of managing maritime safety in that area at European level, as part of a joint strategy.
I voted in favour of this document, because as we know, the Atlantic region has its own specific characteristics; namely, it is a dynamic maritime area (thanks to maritime transport, fishing, marine energy, etc.), an area whose fragile environment must be preserved and which is subject to the consequences of climate change, and it is also an outlying area within the European Union, with accessibility and connectivity problems and with a low number of major city centres.
We need to shape as soon as possible the EU strategy for the Atlantic region as an integrated strategy dealing with maritime and territorial issues.
This strategy should implement a better coordination of goals and means, with strong links to the EU 2020 strategy and EU policies post-2013.
This strategy aims at better spending of EU money, not increasing expenditure.
This strategy needs to be well-connected to EU regional policy and integrated maritime policy.
It is important to improve accessibility in Atlantic maritime regions and increase movement of persons, goods and services in these regions in order to achieve the aims of the internal market and the objective of cohesion policy, especially by the development of short sea shipping and the highways of the sea.
The Atlantic region has specific characteristics of its very own as it is a dynamic maritime area, in which I would stress its maritime transport, fisheries and marine energy.
I voted for this resolution which calls for the EU to create a European strategy for the Atlantic region.
European territorial cooperation can contribute widely to the intensification of the integration process within the Atlantic region through a greater participation by civil society in the decision-making process and the implementation of concrete actions.
in writing. - Taking into account the specificities of the Atlantic region, Parliament asks the Commission to act as soon as possible to establish the EU strategy for the Atlantic region as an integrated strategy dealing with maritime and territorial issues.
Though Parliament believes that this strategy must develop synergies between relevant EU, national, regional and local policies, it calls on the Commission and the Member States to set up simplified rules to facilitate the implementation of this strategy and reduce the inherent administrative burden.
I am getting the impression that the Commission has still not started to change its priorities under the Lisbon Treaty and is conducting unjustified and long-lasting rhetoric with Parliament to further its own opportunities.
Five Member States of the European Union border the Atlantic.
France, Portugal and Spain, in particular, certainly do not see only benefits from this geographical fact, as the Atlantic plays a not insignificant role when it comes to the streams of refugees that now threaten to increase as a result of the crises in the countries of North Africa.
At today's vote, the European Parliament adopted the resolution on the European strategy for the Atlantic region.
The strategy is a further European initiative which will not concentrate on solving the problems of a single country but of the entire Atlantic region, which includes as many as five Member States.
It is important to draw attention to the fact that the strategy should be characterised by a bottom-up approach.
The geostrategic position of the region allows development of cooperation in the fields of maritime safety, international trade and fishing, as well as protection of the marine environment and preservation of biodiversity.
I agree with the resolution on the European strategy for the Atlantic region, which will contribute to the region's sustainable development.
Given the geostrategic position of the Atlantic region, the Commission must take immediate action and develop an integrated strategy for this region, strengthening international cooperation and triangular cooperation initiatives, and addressing maritime and territorial issues.
Attention is drawn to the fact that effective territorial cooperation will promote the development of marine energy and will create a favourable environment to use transport and energy networks and interconnections.
For this strategy to achieve the objectives set, it must be well-connected to EU regional policy and integrated maritime policy.
Only this can guarantee synergies with other EU policies and create the conditions for more targeted and more effective absorption and use of funds allocated by the EU, without increasing expenditure.
Furthermore, the adoption of this strategy will improve accessibility to Atlantic maritime regions, and increase the movement of persons, goods and services.
The motion for a resolution on the European Union strategy for the Atlantic region follows the request made by the European Council to the Commission to develop an integrated strategy dealing with maritime and territorial issues in the Atlantic.
The aim is to implement better coordination in the region on issues such as the integrated maritime policy, the trans-European transport networks, fisheries, climate and environment actions, research and development, increasing movement of persons, goods and services in the regions in order to achieve the cohesion policy objective, ensuring that everything ties in with the EU 2020 strategy and with the European Union's policies post-2013.
I also believe that many of the problems of this vast area should meet with a response at European level through an integrated EU strategy for the region, and through the prospect of a territorial cohesion policy that should be a fundamental framework for Union choices.
I therefore believe that the establishment of the European Union strategy for the Atlantic is very pertinent.
in writing. - As was the case in the resolution on an EU strategy for the Danube region adopted by the EP last month, the present draft resolution stresses that the major added value of EU macro-regional strategies is seen in multi-level cooperation, coordination and better strategic investment of available funding, and not in the additional allocation of resources.
The strategy should also facilitate synergies between the EU's various policies - for example, as regards: tourism; highways of the sea and trans-European transport networks; common fisheries policy; energy policy, and marine energy in particular; climate change measures; the Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development; multilingualism; and, in general, any policies that will be implemented from 2014 onwards - and between any relevant policies developed in the field by the various responsible authorities.
The plan must be drawn up, adopted and implemented in a transparent and trustworthy way, through cooperation between all the public institutions, and the involvement of the private sector and civil society organisations.
Owing to its vast area, the European Atlantic coast has great potential and several specific characteristics.
The Atlantic region offers significant and dynamic maritime activity and has at its core regions that are very different from one another, but which have the common characteristic of depending on activities in the maritime basins of this ocean.
I am talking, specifically, about the outermost regions of the EU, where problems of connectivity and accessibility are reflected in their economic and social development.
However, it is also important to mention that these regions have unique advantages compared with other European regions.
The objective of territorial cohesion allows, or rather obligates, harmonious development for all EU regions, bearing in mind the specific characteristics of each one.
I therefore hope that the outermost regions of Macaronesia, including my home region of Madeira, are properly taken into account in any future strategy for the Atlantic, and that an integrated approach can overcome the main difficulties and challenges that these regions experience.
This is the case particularly in the areas of freedom of the press, association and assembly, of commitment to creating a faster, more independent and fairer judicial system which cooperates effectively in the fight against terrorism, and in the struggle for women's rights and human rights in general.
Moreover, the withdrawal of Turkish forces from Cyprus is an essential condition for building a climate of good neighbourliness.
I voted in favour of this resolution on Turkey's 2010 progress report.
However, it is clear that Turkey's progress is too slow, demonstrating the unwillingness of this country's government representatives to implement reforms and democratise the country.
The European Parliament is also concerned that human rights defenders are being persecuted in Turkey.
It is clear that the current human rights situation in Turkey is complicated, one might even say contrary to the EU's values and policies.
These issues relate to the exploitation of the people in this country, the servicing of broader imperialistic interests in controlling wealth-producing resources and the exploitation of the people in the Middle East, in North Africa and in the area as a whole.
As the capitalist crisis and imperialistic aggression escalate, the European Parliament has concealed the anti-grassroots policy of the Turkish Government and the attack on the social rights and grassroots freedoms of the workers in that country.
The Turkish Government continues to view grassroots forces protesting against violations of the rights of the Kurds as terrorists.
It has voted against the proposals and amendments concerning the Republic of Cyprus and its legal rights in the area.
The Greek Communist Party is radically against the accession of Turkey to the EU, because it is fighting against this imperialistic organisation.
The MEPs of the Greek Communist Party voted against the report on Turkey because its accession to the EU can only bring hardship for the workers.
in writing. - My statement aims to justify my abstention on the resolution on Turkey.
If these standards were applied to the EU Member States, several of them would not qualify for EU accession.
These commitments and efforts by Turkey should be viewed as an opportunity for Turkey itself to modernise, given the support from Turkish citizens and civil society for Turkey's further democratisation and their commitment to an open and pluralistic society.
Despite the progress made in some areas, the situation in Turkey remains rather complicated.
A country that aims to take a leading role in the Arab-Muslim world with an aggressive foreign policy towards the West and Israel is a country that demonstrates for itself the reasons why my group has long opposed those who would like to see Turkey become a Member State.
Essentially, the report holds the doors to Europe wide open for Ankara, which is why I voted against it.
Turkey is not Europe and never will be, either in cultural or political terms.
The backward steps made by Turkey ought to convince even its most enthusiastic supporters to give up on the idea that this country should join the European project.
Turkey's political problems, its relations with Greece, which are still tense and even in stalemate, the precarious dialogue between the political parties and the undermining of press freedom are all reasons for slowing down the pace of the accession negotiations.
The Member States clearly have everything to gain from maintaining good relations with Turkey, but once again, the European Union has discredited itself with this report on Turkey's progress towards accession.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that the reforms in Turkey, although important, have been taking place slowly.
However, we believe that it is important that the criticism of Turkey for not recognising the genocide is not used as a weapon by the - regrettably - xenophobic forces which want to keep Turkey out of the EU at any price.
We therefore abstained from voting on Amendment 38.
Having said that, it has to be acknowledged that Turkey still does not fulfil all the objective criteria that would enable it to aspire to be a full member of the Union, and that the reforms that it has recently been making will take time to have the expected results.
I hope that Turkey will be successful in its efforts at democratisation and that, whatever form its future relationship with the Union takes, it will become closer and deepen, for their mutual benefit.
The European Union, which is interested in pursuing a policy of good neighbourliness, welcomes this integration, as it regards Turkey as a strategic partner.
The first of these is the disrespect for fundamental rights as regards freedom of speech, respect for minorities and the rule of law.
The EU sees this as an unacceptable situation, which is only exacerbated by the occupation of a large part of the territory of Cyprus.
Those who have voted for this resolution are concerned rather to urge Turkey to 'support and actively contribute to the implementation of EU policies and measures in the region', particularly in the area of energy, highlighting its 'constructive engagement' in NATO operations in Afghanistan and the Balkans, along with the renewal of 'close ties with Israel'.
These considerations are illustrative of the deeper meaning and significance of EU enlargement processes which, in the specific case of Turkey, is the imposition of the wishes of the EU powers and the interest that they serve.
I welcome the report by my Dutch colleague in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
The text is very balanced.
For these reasons, I think it would be more useful and worthwhile to set up a privileged commercial partnership, instead of insisting on the long and winding road to accession.
This is a process promoted by the major powers in the EU, and it is not lacking in contradictions, as its objectives include the integration of this large country into the EU single market, control of its economy and the use of its geostrategic location in relation to the Middle East, the Caucasus and Central Asia, particularly for access to and control of the energy sources and markets of these regions.
Moreover, the resolution is instructive on this point, urging Turkey to 'support and actively contribute to the implementation of EU policies and measures in the region', particularly in the area of energy, highlighting its 'constructive engagement' in NATO operations in Afghanistan and the Balkans, along with the renewal of 'close ties with Israel'.
The large groups have not had the courage, in committee, to defend their own political choices regarding Turkey's accession to the European Union.
In order to avoid talking about full membership of the Union, in the case of the left, or of a privileged partnership, in the case of the so-called right, they have struck a deal.
That is why I voted for the amendment, which proposed the recognition of the Armenian genocide, a crucial historical act and prerequisite for Turkey's accession to the Union.
The big Member States, such as Germany and France, are afraid of Turkey, which is a large, influential country.
Since the 1990s, Turkey has built good neighbourly relations and stability in its region - on its borders with Europe, the South Caucasus, Central Asia and the Middle East.
Turkey is a democratic Islamic state, which can serve as an inspiring example to other Arab countries that wish to establish a democratic system of government founded on the rule of law and respect for human rights, while preserving their religious values.
From the experience of Latvia, I know that adhesion negotiations are an important instrument for encouraging reform, which is why it is important for the EU to open negotiations on new chapters with Turkey.
Turkey's government has made significant strides, which is why I should like to emphasise that criticism in EU reports on Turkey's progress should be commensurate with an objective assessment of the country's achievements.
It is the European Union's 7th biggest trade partner and the EU is Turkey's main trade partner.
For example, I think that opening Negotiation Chapter 15, which is on energy, is important, including for EU Member States.
Therefore, I think that Turkey must be considerably involved, even prior to accession, in EU energy projects or in regional cooperation in the Black Sea and Mediterranean Sea region.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which commends Turkish citizens and civil society for supporting Turkey's further democratisation and for their commitment to an open and pluralistic society, but notes Turkey's slow progress with regard to reforms and recalls that the Turkish Government has committed itself to undertaking comprehensive reforms, both with a view to fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria and for the sake of Turkey's own modernisation, and calls on the government to increase its efforts in that respect.
There has been no change over the past year in Turkey's attitude towards either the European Union or Cyprus.
It is important to note that the Turkish Cypriots in occupied Cyprus are demonstrating against Turkey, protesting about their financial hardship due to the presence of the Turkish occupying army.
Referring in a statement to the Turkish Cypriot demonstrations, Turkish Prime Minister Erdoğan accepted that Turkey invaded Cyprus in order to serve its strategic interests.
I am opposed to any further accessions taking place until social dumping has been stopped, but I shall vote against this arrogant text.
Turkey has an Islamic identity that is very different from the Judaeo-Christian identity of most EU countries; the secularity of the country is only held in place by military force.
The movement of people from what would become the country with the largest population in the EU would create great imbalances in the labour market.
None of this precludes acknowledgement of the efforts made by Turkey over recent years to meet certain criteria required by the EU, and it recognises the invaluable role that this country plays within NATO.
However, at the same time, it should be mentioned that in order for Turkey to be able to accede as a Member State of the EU, it has to comply with the Copenhagen criteria and the obligations to the EU itself and to its Member States, like any other candidate country.
It is necessary for Turkey to respect international law, and it must do much more in relation to the Kurdish problem, to acknowledgement of the Armenian genocide and to normalisation with its neighbouring countries.
As such, Turkey must withdraw its occupying troops from the Republic of Cyprus.
I believe that Turkey's eventual accession is of vital importance if the Union wishes to increase its political, strategic and economic influence at international level.
Nevertheless, although the new radio and television laws are welcome advances, freedom of expression and, more specifically, freedom of the press, remain a cause for concern.
Similarly, the resolution of the Cyprus issue is a prerequisite for any progress in the accession process.
I voted against the resolutions as a whole and against many separate odious points.
Turkey is not a European country - geographically, culturally or historically - and it has a different approach to many issues for these reasons.
It is really time to come clean with Turkey.
Rational forces in Turkey have long since recognised that accession to the European Union is not the most worthwhile goal for them.
In light of its location and the manifold connections with the Turkic peoples of the Caucasus and with the Arabs, Turkey is assuming an important strategic position in the Middle East.
I wonder how it is possible that this report does not mention a number of fundamental issues regarding Turkey, above all, the disastrous situation in Cyprus.
For these and other reasons, I voted against the report, just as I remain strongly and staunchly against Turkey's possible future accession to the European Union.
Almost 100 years ago, Turkey turned to face Europe and it can and must become a bridge linking our continent with the Muslim world.
This conflict must be resolved in a manner that is favourable for both Turkey and Cyprus.
I voted in favour of the report, because it is well balanced.
However, this country would have to implement the Ankara Protocol and do more, particularly as regards minorities, women, press freedoms and the rule of law.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution on Turkey's 2010 progress report.
Recent events in the Mediterranean show how important it is to assess the reforms and the situation step-by-step, avoiding taking simplistic stances on the issue.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on Turkey.
As a candidate country, Turkey should cooperate with the EU so that, together with Greece and the other Member States, we can stem the flood of immigrants trying to enter the EU illegally.
The motion for a resolution on Turkey draws attention to the situation on human rights.
The constant stalemate between Turkey and Cyprus, the precarious dialogue between the political parties, the undermining of press freedom, women's rights and other fundamental rights are some of the factors which have resulted in slowing down the pace of the accession negotiations, according to the draft report.
I think that creating a long-term expectation of integration is not positive either for the EU or for Turkey.
in writing. - Notwithstanding the progress mentioned during the debate, and the 'opening', problems remain in relation to women, minorities, freedom of opinion and the press, social imbalances, poverty, rights of the child, education, an independent judiciary and army intervention in politics.
The EU Commission notes that despite legislative advances, 'however, senior members of the armed forces have made a number of statements going beyond their remit, in particular, on judicial issues'.
There are still many unresolved questions over Turkey's progress in the EU accession negotiations.
These negotiations are currently going through a particularly delicate phase.
We cannot support this for many reasons that show that this country has nothing in common with the rest of Europe: geographic position, religious belief, the militaristic decision to continue to occupy part of the European Union in northern Cyprus, the decline of the freedom of the press, limits on the freedom of expression, religious discrimination and the violation of women's rights take Turkey ever further away from Europe.
For these reasons, I voted against the report.
I have always supported Turkey's accession to the European Union, subject to adherence to the Copenhagen criteria and Turkey adopting the acquis communautaire in the proper manner.
Today, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the progress report on Turkey.
Turkey has delivered major efforts on the road to its membership, including the partial revision of its constitution, civilian control of the military and the partial reform of the judiciary.
The European Parliament points out that better guaranteeing of human rights, including those of women and minorities, is crucial, as is an independent judiciary.
It is necessary, however, that Turkey be encouraged to fulfil the exemplary role that it can play in the democratisation process for the Arab world.
I therefore find it regrettable that there are still crucial chapters in the accession negotiations that are being blocked by various Member States.
in writing. - I supported this report which recognises the constitutional changes which have taken place in Turkey but also addresses areas which remain problematic, such as their failure to implement the Ankara Protocol.
There must also be no accession discounts, as the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have been calling for.
Furthermore, there is still much to be desired in relation to the freedom of the press and the resolution of the Cyprus issue.
in writing. - I have been consistently supportive of Turkey's accession process while fully aware of serious concerns that have to be addressed.
The Progress Report 2010 is a reasonably balanced document and I have voted in favour of it in spite of a number of reservations - not least over the Cyprus issue, where I much regret that the amendments calling for fulfilment of the EU Council's promise to end the isolation of Northern Cyprus were voted down.
Turkey has a pivotal role to play as a gateway between West and East and we should be sending positive and welcoming signals.
I voted in favour of the 2010 progress report on Turkey, which turned out to be clearly negative.
According to the report, over the past 5 years, Turkey has made hardly any progress worth mentioning in its process of reform or in meeting the EU's accession criteria.
I voted in favour of this report, but I did so only because it very specifically makes clear that there is no progress in the accession negotiations with Turkey.
The independence of the media should also be a concern.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the European integration process of Montenegro.
The European Parliament approves of the reforms being made by Montenegro and welcomes the progress made in the European integration process.
On 17 December 2010, the European Council took the decision to grant Montenegro the status of candidate country for accession to the European Union.
I share the regret expressed in the resolution over the decoupling of candidate status from the right to open negotiations.
It is important that the decision to start these negotiations should not be unduly or unreasonably postponed.
The European Union strongly supports the progress made in the enlargement process but notes that major challenges remain in most of the countries concerned.
This resolution concerns the case of Montenegro.
While Montenegro must, of course, continue its efforts, I feel it is only right for it to be granted the official status of candidate country for accession to the European Union.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
The government and opposition parties in Montenegro have reached a general consensus as regards European integration and have made it a high priority.
Montenegro is successfully engaging in regional cooperation, is a constructive regional partner, and is playing a stabilising role in the Western Balkans region.
It is a political and strategic absurdity to think of Europe as the inevitable destiny of the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
Indeed, it has weakened its structure, slowed down decision-making processes and complicated the development of shared policies in crucial areas for the life of our continent.
I therefore voted against this report which, although it emphasises the multiple problems underlying the process of Montenegro's accession, retains the basic idea of giving this country the opportunity of joining the EU.
I welcome the concern and commitment shown by the government and opposition parties of Montenegro in relation to European integration.
I welcome the determination of its leaders and the changes which have been taking place in the country to bring it up to European standards, particularly with regard to democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law.
Despite the progress which has been seen, it is still clear that the country still has some way to go before being fit to join the European Union.
The European institutions have recognised the strategic interest of EU enlargement to the Balkans on a number of occasions.
As the Republic of Montenegro has expressed its interest in acceding to the EU, the Council decided to confer candidate country status on this state on 17 December 2010.
In fact, as stated in this report, Montenegro has been making a number of reforms, particularly the creation of a new legal and constitutional framework, and in the fight against corruption.
Nevertheless, there are areas in which more progress is needed, such as the freedom of the press and respect for the work of non-governmental organisations.
I am voting for this Parliament resolution on the process of integration for the Republic of Montenegro, which recommends that the process of integration be speeded up.
I would like to call upon the Montenegrin authorities to continue to make an effort to fulfil the established objectives, as this country is an important neighbour for the EU, and one with which we would like to collaborate.
In this particular case, it is important not to forget that the process of breaking up Yugoslavia was carried out by NATO and the EU powers, which are today seeking to attract Montenegro into an accession to the EU that is the successor to that process.
Our experience is that 25 years of Portugal's capitalist integration in the EU demonstrate that the promised progress is never achieved.
The enlargement process of the European Union continues on exclusively geographical premises and, as I have already stated in this House, the Council is being hasty in granting the status of candidate country for accession before the countries in question reach democratic quality standards that at least approach a basically adequate level.
Corruption, smuggling, organised crime and violations of the freedom of the press are just some of the factors that lead me to think that Montenegro is still a long way from Europe.
There is no fundamental progress in sight regarding the fight against all-pervasive corruption.
In the given circumstances, it is therefore a good solution to grant Montenegro candidate status without setting a deadline for the start of accession talks.
The EU has already adopted a similar approach towards the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in 2005.
I presume that all of this was made very clear in the recent talks between Herman van Rompuy, José Manuel Barroso and Jerzy Buzek and the new leader of Montenegro, Igor Lukšić, the world's youngest premier.
This also applies to a country which, despite the fact that it is not in the EU, has been using the euro as its national currency for many years now.
I voted in favour of this document because a general consensus and high priority has been given to European integration by the government and opposition parties in Montenegro, which has resulted in good progress in the reform process since the independence of the country.
I welcome the fact that the process of establishing the legal and constitutional framework of the country has almost been finalised and there has been good progress in adopting important legislation in the field of fighting corruption, as well as progress in reform of the judiciary.
However, there is still a need to continue to reform public administration, strengthen human resources at the local level of administration and combat organised crime, particularly money laundering and smuggling.
The media sector must be able to operate without political interference and it is necessary to guarantee the independence of regulatory bodies.
I voted in favour of the resolution, which promotes the integration of Montenegro into the European system, because we have all witnessed that this country has made notable progress towards adopting proper processes and instruments.
These are necessary steps not only for joining the EU but also to give a judicial, civil and social structure to a country that must develop in compliance with the regulations and in view of shared growth at the various levels of administration.
Montenegro has already launched important reforms that are therefore heading in the right direction, which also involves creating an administrative structure capable of making effective future use of Structural Funds, which will benefit this country greatly.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution in order to acknowledge Montenegro's progress towards European integration and highlight the remaining goals to be achieved for the benefit of its people.
The publication of all judgments and the unification of jurisprudence should be priorities in order to ensure public trust and a predictable judicial system.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which welcomes the general consensus and high priority given to European integration by the government and opposition parties in Montenegro, which has resulted in good progress in the reform process since the independence of the country, and which welcomes the new political leadership in Podgorica and encourages the new government to continue Montenegro's European integration process and speed up the reforms leading to fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
As a candidate for future accession to the EU, Montenegro has demonstrated its willingness to pursue its choice of Europe through the determination of its leaders and the changes which have been taking place in the country in order to bring it closer to European requirements, particularly with regard to democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law.
However, despite the progress that has been made, this is not yet enough, and Montenegro has to continue to make efforts before it is fit to join the European Union.
I hope that this determination will continue to bear fruit and that joining the EU will become a reality, so that Montenegro can give its people better living conditions and improve the functioning of its authorities in order to become an increasingly better state.
I am in favour of starting discussions on the accession of Montenegro to the EU, inasmuch as I am in favour of expansion on principle.
Ever since it gained independence in 2006, Montenegro has clearly demonstrated its desire to join the European Union: the euro was officially adopted in 2006, and a Stabilisation and Association Agreement (SAA) has been in force since 1 May 2010.
Montenegro's accession to the Union will bring greater political, economic and social stability to the country and will increase the stability of the Balkan region.
Indeed, I welcome Montenegro's efforts to become a constructive partner in the field of regional cooperation, notably as a result of the various regional agreements it has concluded with its neighbours in the areas of readmission and extradition and in judicial and police matters.
The consolidation of peace and stability benefits not only the region but also Europe as a whole.
I therefore call for accession negotiations to begin as soon as possible, particularly since the European Council granted Montenegro the status of candidate country at the end of December 2010.
Montenegro's efforts to meet the accession criteria are going well, even though substantial progress still needs to be made, in particular, regarding corruption and organised crime, freedom of information and gender equality.
in writing. - Although the Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the European Council's decision to grant Montenegro candidate status, serious problems remain as regards corruption, especially where the building industry, privatisation and the state procurement sector are concerned.
There are still problems as regards minorities and unprotected groups as well.
There is constantly a tension that is not always easily reconcilable between respect for human rights and other national interests (perhaps of a military or economic nature).
I therefore voted for this motion for a resolution.
Today, the European Parliament adopted the resolution on the European integration process of Montenegro.
Enlargement of the EU to include the Western Balkans was confirmed as long ago as 2003 in Athens, which is why Parliament has expressed the hope that accession negotiations will begin before the end of this year.
In the resolution, attention is drawn to the significant improvement in the political and social situation in Montenegro, and also to Montenegro's positive approach to European integration.
In my opinion, a very important and so far also unresolved problem is the question of discrimination against ethnic groups and also against women, who are under-represented in decision-making processes and in public administration.
EU integration is the main driving force behind Montenegro's progress.
I voted in favour of this resolution, because it rightly indicates further steps to reform Montenegro.
It is necessary to make progress in the establishment of the rule of law, to continue to implement administrative reforms, improve the capacities of civil servants, amend electoral law, and strengthen civil society and the independent media.
It is important for the country to maintain the momentum and to continue the work it has begun.
Montenegro became one of the official candidate countries for accession to the European Union last December 2010, but no date has yet been established for the start of proper negotiations.
I support the spirit of the resolution where it compliments the government of Montenegro in light of the priority being given to reforms linked to the integration process and, despite the problems still to be resolved, it expresses hope for official negotiations to begin within the year.
This is why I voted in favour of the resolution, since I think that the accession to the EU of Montenegro and the other Balkan countries is of fundamental strategic importance for Europe in terms of the stability of the region itself, for its own development, and for the resources that it offers.
I acknowledge the effort that has been made by Montenegro, particularly with regard to legal reforms, the struggle against corruption and the fight against different types of discrimination, but I would like to stress that this work needs to be continued and intensified.
I am referring to economic issues in particular, and the need to apply new structural changes, despite the success of the economic reforms, which has been exposed by the financial crisis.
The report addresses all relevant policy fields.
Montenegro, which became a candidate country in December 2010, is still waiting for negotiations to start.
The report criticises this fact in paragraph 2: 'regrets the decoupling of candidate status from the right to open negotiations and stresses that the decision to start them should not be unduly or unreasonably postponed'.
Many paragraphs are devoted to the issue of anti-discrimination and touch on all relevant aspects such as Roma, Ashkali, Egyptians (paragraphs 17 and 22), LGBT (paragraph 17), women and domestic violence (paragraphs 17-19), ethnic issues (paragraph 21) and civil society (paragraphs 5, 10, 23, 24 and 32).
The most important are paragraphs 23, 24 and 32.
Ever since Montenegro officially became a candidate country for accession to the European Union on 17 December 2010, the country's government has immediately given priority to reforms that can accelerate the European integration process.
There are still some problems to resolve, such as electoral reform, and reform of the public administration and the legal system, but the report makes it clear that Montenegro is making progress.
Italy fully supports the European aspirations of this country, since it believes that the accession of Montenegro and the Western Balkans meets a basic interest of the EU in that it promotes stability, regional cooperation and development in a crucial geographical area for our continent.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution which would see Montenegro achieve candidate status for the European Union.
It also highlights the issues of equality and corruption which need to be tackled within Montenegro and calls for measures to be taken to tackle these problems.
I voted for the motion for a resolution, because the report states quite clearly that since gaining its independence in 2006, Montenegro has made significant progress in internal reforms.
However, we must not be blind to the fact that there are, as always, serious problems with corruption and organised crime, freedom of expression and discrimination.
At the same time, this accession may strengthen the fight against organised crime originating from the Balkan area.
I voted for this report because the values of European integration require that the EU be free of prejudice and discrimination in order for human rights to be respected.
This discrimination is exacerbated by the current economic crisis, and the integration of the Roma population should be seen as the joint responsibility of the European institutions, the Member States and the regions, making use of all the resources available to the EU to address this situation.
The Commission should play a leading role in this process, paying particular attention to requests for technical assistance and, above all, presenting a strategy that includes the defence of human rights, the right to education and training, culture, employment, sports, adequate housing, healthcare and better sanitation for the Roma population as priority areas.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the EU strategy on Roma inclusion.
I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that the inclusion of Roma is a necessary investment, because it is cheaper to integrate Roma than to sustain their substandard socio-economic conditions.
Another important dimension that I would like to underline is the fact that the overall inclusion of Roma is essentially an issue of human rights.
A significant proportion of European Roma face such substandard conditions - almost totally disconnected from the economy, resulting in their exclusion from basic human rights - that fostering social inclusion cannot be viewed within the framework of general policy rectifications, but must be handled as bridging one of the largest gaps in the fulfilment of constitutional and human rights in Europe.
By approving this strategy, the European Parliament has taken the first step towards promoting the social and economic inclusion of Roma, and now the Council and the Commission must take the necessary action to ensure that this strategy is successfully implemented.
Approximately 10-12 million Roma reside in the European Union.
The Roma situation in the EU is rather complicated.
A large proportion of Europe's 10-12 million Roma have suffered systematic discrimination and are therefore struggling against an intolerable degree of social, cultural and economic exclusion as well as human rights violations.
Furthermore, a significant proportion of the Roma community live in regions which are among the least economically and socially advanced in the Union, and therefore Roma children often do not have access to education and training systems, which later leads to them being discriminated against in the labour market and prevented from integrating into society.
I agree that the Member States must improve the implementation of the EU strategy on Roma inclusion and ensure the full transposition and application of all related directives and EU law, thereby preventing Roma segregation and discrimination.
There are approximately 10-12 million Roma in Europe, most of them European citizens, who suffer from systematic discrimination and who are victims of intolerance.
The integration of the Roma population is the responsibility of all the Member States and European institutions.
This report urges the Member States to cooperate with the European Union and the representatives of the Roma community to develop integrated policies, using the resources available within the European Union, under existing Structural Funds, to support the integration of the Roma community, as it is less costly to integrate the Roma than to sustain their insecure socio-economic conditions.
The harmonious integration of Roma communities involves the participation of everyone: the Roma themselves, and their host community.
The report highlights priority areas that must feature in the strategy, such as the fight to have the Roma people's fundamental rights respected.
While respecting the principle of subsidiarity, the Union must fully perform its role as a driving force and unite the actors involved at all levels so as to increase the beneficial effect of EU funds and make the Roma fully fledged European citizens at last.
Basically, the report on Roma inclusion does not bear in mind the difficulties faced in the social integration of Roma if one considers the fact that often, it is the Roma community itself that does not want to integrate in the social fabric of our countries.
This is a cultural factor that cannot be denied or ignored: Roma have their own traditions and customary ways of life which makes it difficult to integrate them in social environments characterised by processes, lifestyles and habits very different from their own.
It therefore remains a fact that any Roma integration policy will have to deal with this obstacle: their actual desire or willingness to integrate.
Quite aside from sociological considerations, I must recall that given these and other difficulties, the policies proposed in the reports on Roma communities will require an enormous disbursement of funds by the EU and the Member States, without achieving the desired result in the end.
I have therefore voted against the report.
I voted in favour of this report, because Roma living in Europe need the support of the European Union (EU).
The EU strategy on Roma inclusion proposes setting compulsory minimum standards of education, employment, housing and healthcare.
It is important to ensure the abolition of the segregation of Roma children in schools and classrooms.
It is also very important to encourage Roma to become involved in all areas of public and political life and to participate in the work of non-governmental organisations.
The European Parliament resolution, which endeavours to influence the future strategy on the inclusion of the Roma, offers better protection for fundamental rights, as well as increased EU funding.
The European Union ought to be aware that there is a very high level of resistance to change within this ethnic group, including social inclusion.
This assessment is very fair, but it needs to be realised that, very often, the solutions which we come up with are inadequate or not understood by the Roma.
The future EU strategy on the Roma minority must obviously emphasise compliance with, and the promotion of, the fundamental rights to work, housing, health and, in particular, to education, even in spite of resistance from parents.
A basic precondition for drawing up any kind of sensible strategy on Roma inclusion is to collect and provide data on the socio-economic situation of the Roma (chiefly education, health, housing and employment).
Both Member States and international organisations (the International Organisation for Migration and the OECD) should therefore focus on these issues in greater detail, and help to set concrete objectives relating to, for example, the percentage of the Roma community completing secondary and tertiary education or employed in the civil service or represented in various areas of social and political life.
It is then up to the Commission to set out a clear and manageable EU strategy for Roma inclusion on the basis of this data.
We might consider establishing performance bonuses for the EU strategy on the Roma minority, within the framework of the cohesion policy.
In the interests of Roma inclusion, it is also perhaps necessary to make use of the funding options provided by the PROGRESS programme, the lifelong learning programme, the cultural programme (2007-2013) and the public health programme (2008-2013).
In this context, the Commission should provide the European Parliament with a list of projects benefiting the Roma which it has funded since 2000, and set out the results achieved by these projects.
I am pleased with the commitment that the EU has demonstrated in establishing binding standards that guarantee the Roma community access to education, employment, housing and healthcare.
This initiative addresses not only the human values inherent in the social inclusion of ethnic minorities, but also the economic progress stimulated by the fall in unemployment.
I agree with the measures proposed under this integration strategy, in particular, the fight against undeclared work and the increase in Roma teachers.
It is important that the community itself be included in the integration process, so as to ensure sustainable development from the inside out, encouraging a desire for a positive role in society, instead of imposing it.
This process should also focus on all forms of the violation of fundamental rights, with particular attention to social exclusion and discrimination in public life.
The issue of Roma inclusion is a major challenge that the European Union must take up.
This report is along the right lines, as it shows the European Parliament's will to fully contribute to this end.
in writing. - I voted for this report as Europe's 10-12 million Roma should benefit from binding minimum standards at EU level to improve their access to employment, education, housing and healthcare.
The resolution, which seeks to influence the Commission's upcoming strategy for Roma inclusion, also calls for better protection of fundamental rights and use of EU funding.
I hope EU governments now respond to this strong message from Parliament.
In addition to the humanitarian aspect of Roma integration, this should also enable an increase in the workforce to support the social security system, and reduce the social and healthcare benefits guaranteed by the state to those living in poverty, not to mention the possibility that crime rates may be reduced.
Integration should take into account the protection of children and should respect the law.
A common European solution is needed to a common European problem, taking an integrated and cross-sectoral approach that enables aid for and specific intervention in the most underdeveloped areas, and in those with severe structural disadvantages.
We have just adopted by a large majority the EU strategy on Roma inclusion.
This is a strong political signal confirming that the European Union is aware of its responsibility towards this minority, which is the largest one in Europe, as well as the most persecuted one.
This report stresses the importance of respecting the fundamental rights of the Roma and, in particular, access to education.
To avoid any risk of marginalisation, it is also important to implement innovative policies on genuine access to employment, and to enable these people, the vast majority of whom are permanently settled, to access decent and affordable housing.
They must be used in a way that will benefit the Roma.
It is now up to the European Commission to draft final provisions based on the proposals in this report in a coherent manner with the principle of subsidiarity and with one aim: to ensure that the Roma become fully fledged European citizens.
The Roma should therefore be involved in any decision making.
The text points out the difficult living conditions, discrimination and difficulties in accessing essential services that the Roma suffer.
It also mentions the importance, in social inclusion terms, of social protection, vocational training, education and public service provision.
However, the real drawback of this report is the insistence by the conservatives in the European Parliament on mentioning the need to combat the Roma people's so-called 'prolonged dependence' on the social welfare system.
Parliament calls for an EU action plan in this area, wants EU funds to be harnessed, and proposes the adoption of a crisis map, to show where Roma populations are concentrated.
Parliament has also made strong calls for EU bodies to be set up under the supervision of the current Roma Task Force, with the aim of providing EU financial assistance to relevant local initiatives and of identifying and reporting in good time any misuse of funds.
I voted for this report because I think that an EU-level strategy for integrating the Roma minority is a positive and welcome step.
This community needs special attention at European level, given the persistent problems with social and economic integration, along with the particular level of mobility among its members.
With this in mind, I think that a structured dialogue between the Roma communities, non-governmental sector and local authorities must provide the basis for the future strategy's implementation.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that the inclusion of the Roma does not just have to do with moral imperatives or the European Union's human rights obligations.
A number of studies prove that the exclusion of these European citizens has socio-economic costs for the Member States.
I believe that an EU strategy in favour of the integration of the Roma, as for any other disadvantaged ethnic minority group, is to be welcomed.
Without the participation, interaction and commitment of all players in this common effort, the strategy will run the risk of being nothing more than a statement of good intentions.
This report covers the development of an EU strategy on Roma inclusion.
It is a very useful and encouraging document which was compiled jointly by the Commission and Parliament, and its recommendations address the objectives set out in the Europe 2020 strategy as regards reducing poverty and combating social exclusion, so as to foster inclusive growth throughout the EU.
The Roma population has highly dynamic demographics, unlike other ethnic groups, and it is thought that in some countries, such as Hungary, they will make up more than 50% of the economically active population by 2050.
I welcome the adoption of this report, and I welcome the recommendation that the Commission take on the role of overseeing and monitoring Member States' compliance with this strategy.
This resolution is all the more important given that it is common knowledge that the Roma have been the target of unfortunate and unacceptable discrimination in a number of EU countries, such as France and other Member States.
Just recently, there have been problems in France and other EU states, which could worsen under the pretext of the economic and social crisis.
Within this context, the resolution that has been adopted today advocates that the Commission propose and the Council adopt an EU strategy encouraging Roma integration as an action plan at European level, and which will be significant and inclusive at various different levels, based on the fundamental values of equality, the exercising of rights, non-discrimination, and equality between men and women.
I do not think it is a European strategy or a decision that deserves support given that this phenomenon also implies vast differences between one Member State and another.
That is why I think it would be more effective to apply the principle of subsidiarity.
For the strategy on Roma inclusion read the systematic promotion of a small population in everything and everywhere, mandatory quotas in all areas, including in decision-making bodies and businesses, and the systematic public funding of its alleged needs, including housing.
To return to the subject at hand, though, which other European citizens, albeit victims of poverty and insecurity, and excluded, in their own country, from the social benefits already allocated as a priority to others, are the object of such deep concern on your part?
This week, the European Parliament, by a large majority, adopted a report on the EU strategy on Roma inclusion: this is an additional political signal confirming that the European Union is aware of its responsibility towards this ethnic minority, which is the largest one in Europe, as well as the most persecuted one.
The report emphasises the priority areas of this strategy: fundamental rights, inequalities, the fight against discrimination, education, access to employment, the labour market, access to housing, and so on.
This strategy will have to be shaped later on by each Member State and will thus be assessed at local level.
The issue of Roma inclusion is a genuinely European problem, which is why the European Union must go to the very root of the discrimination suffered by the Roma community by combating stereotypes, in order to ensure equal access to employment, housing, healthcare and education.
This report denounces the misuse by the Member States of the European funds that should be devoted to Roma inclusion projects, but it is my hope that the Commission will go further by forcing the Member States to account publicly for their use of these funds.
I voted in favour of this document, although I believe that this report should have been rejected.
Rather, we need an effective emergency strategy aimed at solving the issue of legal and illegal migration in order to ensure, above all, economic stability, employment, security, public order and justice for all European citizens who make up part of a Member State from demographic, cultural, traditional, historical and economic viewpoints.
in writing. - (RO) The European approach to the Roma problem has been, and still is, inadequate.
The report drafted by Lívia Járóka in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, along with the contributions from the other associated committees, should provide new impetus for a proper Roma integration strategy, which we expect from the Commission next month.
I strongly believe that we are all eager to bring about real change for the Roma community and offer them all the prerequisites for social inclusion.
This is why we need to focus on the political and financial instruments we have available and take direct action in key areas such as education and health.
Cooperation at every level, from European to local, is also essential because, without concerted action, all the resources are wasted.
The Roma need to be involved in making policies.
Lastly, we must acknowledge the importance of the message we are sending out with this report.
However, we should not forget that numerous messages have been given and the time has now come for concrete actions.
The Roma are culturally one of the richest nations in the world.
It is also necessary to support initiatives which will allow Roma to undertake legal employment and more easily acclimatise in the country in which they are currently living.
in writing. - The ECR Group is wholeheartedly supportive of the inclusion and integration of the Roma people within Member States and the European Union.
We also strongly support the report's aims regarding EU funds being better spent and better allocated in order to fully support the Roma people.
However, some sections of the report which discuss health, education and employment are areas which we believe should be legislated by Member States.
Voting in favour today on the resolution on the European Union strategy for Roma inclusion could represent a useful boost to the promotion of non-discrimination in the Member States, as well as an incentive to bring in instruments to protect the Roma.
What I have said is valid, in particular, for the most vulnerable groups, in line with the provisions of the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The resolution in question tackles a particularly significant issue - including for my own country - and aims at proper integration of the Roma so as to enable their real participation in the economic, social and cultural life of the countries in which they are located, on condition (I would add) of the total respect of the principles and laws of the host State.
I voted for this report as I welcome its extremely close look at the complexity of the issue of the Roma community in the EU.
I would even dare say that when most of these problems are resolved, it will mean that a large number of the problems we are faced with now as a European society will be resolved.
I believe that substantial funds need to be allocated to the economic and social development of these communities.
I hope that this strategy will generate the value added required from implementing a European measure supporting Roma inclusion.
in writing. - I welcome this report on the plight of the Roma - the most marginalised group in the European Union.
This resolution offers an opportunity for the Roma to be better integrated into society.
However, I object to the bitter pills we are made to swallow along the way: full powers for the Commission in this matter, stigmatisation of the Roma in a text that claims to defend them, competition on the job market and competitive clusters.
The EU is an area of solidarity and inclusion, so it must do what is necessary to prevent discrimination against the Roma and to gain them the same rights as regards education, employment, healthcare and housing in all Member States, as well as states intending to join the Union.
I voted for the report on the EU strategy on Roma inclusion.
Today, some 10-12 million Roma are in need of European measures to promote their social, cultural and economic integration.
The report we have just adopted is an important step towards measures aimed at reducing marginalisation, poverty and social exclusion.
However, much remains to be done to prevent discrimination.
Many Roma in Europe are completely cut off from the economy and live in conditions so poor that they cannot enjoy their fundamental rights.
The Commission must set binding minimum standards at EU level that require the involvement of local, national and European authorities alike.
in writing. - Areas in which more effort from the EU is required in the Roma inclusion process are priorities for the EU.
The report calls for the Commission to present a strategic plan for introducing binding minimum standards at EU level for these priorities, including penalties for Member States that do not comply with the objectives.
We must, at the same time, not overlook the fact that the lack of progress towards a better way of life is also connected to the traditions of these groups, to which they continue to cling.
In a typical do-gooding way, over many years now, attempts at socialising these groups have been begun but they have all failed, because they have not been accepted by the great majority of this nomadic people.
The European Union has set aside EUR 12 billion up to 2013 for integration of minorities, and it is already quite clear that the money will be wasted where most Roma and Sinti are concerned.
The strategy that has been planned is not only incapable of changing anything significant; it could, in some areas, such as 'non-discrimination', even turn into an own goal.
Moreover, there is a lack of the concept that there is no such thing as a right to be included in the social security system.
This ethnic group has historically remained isolated in Europe, often not as a result of the will of others but by their own nature; they have willingly remained at the margins in order to carry on living according to their own customs, which are a long way from the common values and sentiments of Europe.
Rather than a specific European strategy for the inclusion of the Roma, I would like it if we worked at a European level for a real and effective common immigration strategy, which seems increasingly essential and can no longer be postponed.
A European Roma strategy is undoubtedly an absolute necessity, as this is a European minority which is typified, at the same time, by a very large degree of cross-border mobility, given their way of life.
I voted for this resolution, especially because it emphasises the role played by good quality education and training as a factor influencing people's personal and professional life and because, as a result, education is the most reliable solution for ensuring Roma integration into society.
While the majority society in the EU is rapidly ageing, the Roma are recording a rapid increase in population.
In Hungary, where the Roma currently make up between 6% and 8% of the population, they will exceed 50% of the working population by 2050.
All the worse, therefore, that Roma life in the EU is characterised, as it always has been, by unemployment, a level of education that is greatly below average, organised crime and prostitution, as well as retreat into a parallel society.
The situation of women in often archaic Roma society is particularly dramatic, and their lack of education and, hence, their exclusion from the labour market is so much the greater.
The report before us admittedly addresses some of the problems, however one-sidedly.
The Roma must make their contribution, send their children to school, integrate themselves better into the labour market and put an end to criminal tendencies.
I therefore voted against the report.
I voted in favour of this report, because we urgently need to change a situation where, even in the 21st century, a significant portion of the 10-12 million Roma living in Europe suffer discrimination, and economic and social isolation.
The road to integration is a long and complicated process which is adapted to the conditions of individual countries and local regions.
The European Union strategy should ensure clear objectives and means of funding programmes.
However, the greatest responsibility lies with national governments and local authorities, which know best the situation in the region.
Education, healthcare, housing policy and the more rapid inclusion of Roma in the labour market - this is the key to solving a long-standing problem.
The report by Mrs Járóka on the Roma inclusion strategy sets out an action plan for their socio-economic integration in view of a European project that defines national strategies to deal with the problem, partly on the basis of the costs that each Member State will have to bear.
I voted in favour of the report precisely because we need a new European legal framework that includes measures to combat discrimination and protect human rights, to integrate Roma in the various Member States with a plan that guarantees their education and health coverage.
I voted today in favour of the European Parliament report on the EU strategy on Roma inclusion.
Their inclusion in society is a very important issue which concerns all the Member States in general and Greece in particular where, according to studies (by the EU Fundamental Rights Agency), 35% of Roma are illiterate and just 4% have attended school for at least ten years.
in writing. - We know that 10-12 million European Roma continue to suffer serious systematic discrimination in education (where they are victims particularly of segregation), housing (particularly with forced evictions and sub-standard living conditions, often in ghettos), employment (their particularly low employment rate) and equal access to healthcare systems and other public services, as well as an astoundingly low level of political participation.
The Commission and Member States should address the particular needs of Roma women by applying a gender perspective in all policies for Roma inclusion and providing protection for especially vulnerable subgroups.
Therefore, I ask the Commission to present annually to the European Parliament a follow up of the EU strategy on Roma inclusion in order to monitor the progress made at national level.
I voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the need to effectively address the problems and challenges related to this sensitive issue of integrating Roma communities.
On 6 April, the European Commission will present its Communication on Roma inclusion.
Parliament's resolution points out the need for the greater integration of Roma populations in modern society.
This report is absolutely unacceptable since it reiterates on a number of occasions that the inclusion of the Roma is an economic necessity and that it would bring financial advantages for the Member States.
It also proposes a task force for the Roma as a permanent organ of the Commission and denounces systematic discrimination and an intolerable level of exclusion and human rights violations.
The report also emphasises the need for a common European strategy to combat all forms of violation of the rights of the Roma, including fingerprinting and expulsion.
It sets out fines for national governments that do not respect obligatory European standards towards the Roma population, promoting the hiring of Roma in the public administration, and hiring Roma teachers in schools so as to protect their culture by using their language.
As a final insult to the freedom of speech, it also sets out to condemn the rejection of and discrimination against Roma in political meetings.
It is clear that I cannot but vote against a report that is absolutely offensive and harmful to the rights of people to be the lords of their own manor.
Any European strategy for Roma inclusion must be based, first and foremost, on a knowledge of local conditions.
The strategy is therefore inconceivable without close cooperation with the local authorities and the communities where the declaration must be translated into everyday coexistence between the majority of society and the Roma community.
The report does not overlook this aspect and I have therefore voted in favour of it.
By voting for binding EU minimum standards today, I hope that the 10-12 million Roma will have better access to jobs, education, housing and healthcare.
The report further highlights the primordial role of regional policy.
Another positive in this report is the idea that the Commission will have to introduce award criteria in favour of compliant Member States and penalties for non-compliance.
The only minus point is the reference to the Roma's 'prolonged dependence' on the social welfare system.
This is a very conservative, preconceived opinion that marginalises the Roma community once again.
in writing. - I supported this report which aims to combat discrimination against the Roma people and calls on Member States to produce policies for their integration into the labour market.
The Roma people is one of the most marginalised groups in the EU, which is why we need to ensure that action is taken to tackle the social exclusion that they face.
In the vote on the Lange report, I am abstaining on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording, which refers to Eurobonds as well as project bonds.
However, taking it as a whole, I am voting for the report, as I have nothing against project bonds in themselves.
I voted for this report, as industrial policy is a priority for the Europe 2020 strategy and the main driving force behind the European economy.
The focus on this sector is due to the fact that it is responsible for three quarters of European exports, providing jobs for 57 million people and representing 80% of investment in research and development.
I believe that if Europe is to be competitive in this area, there must be a focus on advocating green and innovative knowledge-based projects.
I voted in favour of this important resolution on an Industrial Policy for the Globalised Era.
The global economic crisis has affected European industry and therefore, to be able to overcome the effect of the crisis and face those challenges, the EU needs an industrial policy approach that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work that can, at the same time, stimulate the economy, boost employment, reduce environmental degradation and improve quality of life.
I agree with the resolution's call for the Commission and the Member States to develop an ambitious, eco-efficient and green EU industrial strategy in order to recreate manufacturing capacity across the EU territory and to generate highly qualified and well paid jobs within the EU.
The European Parliament stresses the great importance of SMEs in the industrial landscape, in particular, when it comes to providing long-term jobs at regional level, and in preserving economic and creative vitality and a high level of growth.
There is, therefore, a need to continue working on better access to financing opportunities for SMEs and, in particular, to develop viable venture capital possibilities; to strengthen, in the context of the new architecture of the financial market, short- and long-term financing possibilities for SMEs and their preferred sources of finance; to open up markets and create fair conditions for competition, enabling more entrepreneurs and small companies to grow and develop into companies operating all over Europe.
The global economic crisis has affected European industry, making it more difficult for it to adapt to the challenges posed by the transition to an industry based on knowledge and efficiency, which has a strong impact on industrial development and the labour market.
To be able to face these challenges, I think an industrial policy approach is required which combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work which can, at the same time, stimulate the economy, boost employment, reduce environmental degradation and improve the quality of life in the European Union.
This report supports industrial progress through smart and forward-looking regulation and market stimulation, based on accurate expectations for market developments, and supporting the global trends towards clean, sustainable and innovative forms of production, distribution and consumption.
I voted for this report because I believe that the success of the European Union's industrial policy depends on it being firmly rooted both in a new financial sector architecture that promotes investment and prevents speculation, and also in a macro-economic policy that steers fiscal, economic and budgetary policies in the EU towards sustainable growth and job creation.
The European Union must therefore adopt an industrial policy that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work.
I welcome what the EU's 2020 strategy contains about encouraging high quality jobs and training to help and support the development of the industrial base, and therefore I voted in favour of the report.
SMEs must have better access to the Framework Programme, and assistance and support must be given for technology transfer and innovation.
The major advantages of these clusters are their ability to transfer knowledge, to develop research activities, qualifications and infrastructure, and to stimulate employment opportunities in regional areas.
I voted in favour of this report.
The European Union is the world's largest market, but we are not exploiting our huge potential.
We are a very open market, but face enormous obstacles to accessing foreign markets.
The incomplete single market in areas such as energy forces us to bow to the conditions dictated by external parties, which has a direct impact on our competitiveness.
The viability of industry depends on the viability of our small and medium-sized business sector, which, despite the measures approved, is going through a difficult period.
I agree that innovation is at the core of industry today, but in this area we cannot exactly boast of our ability to react in a timely manner to changing global market conditions.
I believe that today, we have a well balanced and comprehensive vision of industry, and now the Member States and the European Commission will have to do their bit to ensure that our ambitious goals enable the creation of a modern and competitive industry.
European industry is still facing the consequences of the economic crisis, and requires a coordinated approach at EU level in order to handle them successfully.
An industrial strategy must be drawn up for the EU setting out strategic areas for investment, and then taking account of these priorities in the future financial perspective, annual budgets and policies of the EU.
The EU is not a sovereign political entity, and therefore its revenues should basically be made up of the contributions of Member States.
Not to mention the fact that the idea of Eurobonds involves debt and might clash with the principle of a balanced European budget.
This report, 'An integrated industrial policy for the globalisation era', aims to table proposals to relaunch European industry.
In particular, it is essential for energy efficiency and the introduction of information and communication technologies to constitute the basis of the industrial revolution, so as to increase competitiveness, economic growth and employment.
Measures such as the introduction of new technologies and increased efforts in scientific research and innovation in sectors such as the manufacturing industry are of crucial importance.
Industrial policy is essential for the European Union, and this report is an opportunity for the European Commission: the initial communication was disappointing.
This report should be linked to our proposals, which the European Parliament as a whole adopted this week, including, in particular, the principle of a 'tax on financial transactions' at European level and of issuing EU bonds (Eurobonds).
Our policies must show that social innovation and technological innovation are compatible.
In the vote on the Lange report, I am abstaining on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording, which refers to Eurobonds as well as project bonds.
However, taking it as a whole, I am voting for the report, as I have nothing against project bonds in themselves.
Clearly, Europe must develop a long-term European industrial strategy.
We cannot be the only economic area in the world to unilaterally apply free trade principles while having no idea of what our main competitors are doing.
The European Commission has to realise that, with the crisis, the rules put in place are no longer suitable for today's economy, and that it is time to seriously strengthen the European Union's anti-dumping arsenal and the application of the general principle of reciprocity in trade.
The European Union needs a European strategy that serves as a vehicle for major industrial projects such as Galileo and ITER.
It must also support its production sectors and its SME base.
The adoption of measures that ensure energy efficiency improvement must therefore underpin initiatives in all industrial sectors.
MEPs also sought to encourage all the efforts made to redress skills shortages in order to promote the qualifications of the workforce and interest young graduates more in industry.
Industry creates almost one third of EU GDP, industrial products account for three quarters of exports, and industry employs 57 million European citizens.
European industry was already going through a restructuring process before the crisis stated.
A new form of globalisation is developing, leading towards a global society based on knowledge, research and innovation.
The need to mitigate climate change and maintain maximum biodiversity levels is leading industry towards production that involves 'zero' CO2 emissions and an efficient use of resources.
European industry should continue to maintain a strategic position in key sectors, and to exploit the opportunities for sustainable recovery aimed at securing the greatest possible number of jobs for qualified workers.
The rapporteur proposes a whole raft of measures to make this possible.
I agree with and support the creation of an innovation supply chain, greater efficiency in the use of resources, the more effective use of public contracts, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), greater production of so-called clean energy and the generally broader inclusion of SMEs in the concept of European industry.
The report is of benefit to European industry, the rapporteur genuinely understands the issue, and I am therefore voting for the adoption of the report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report because I believe that it represents the way forward for a robust, cohesive and employment-based industrial policy for the European workforce.
R&amp;D is a key driver for innovation and trade and will remain one of the cornerstones for industrial policy in the EU.
I believe that industry plays a key role in keeping jobs in Europe and this is why we must enhance efforts to maintain a strong industrial base, become the most competitive economy in the world and ensure close-knit networks between companies in different Member States in order to achieve shared industrial priorities.
I voted in favour of this report as I support the idea that only an industrial strategy that is ambitious and efficient from an environmental standpoint can renew and stimulate Europe's productive capacity, and gain a central role in the creation of highly skilled and well paid jobs in the EU.
At a time when Europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, which is due, albeit not solely, to the budget, we cannot forget the leading role of industry, which represents 37% of Europe's gross domestic product, and the challenges that it is facing in a globalised world in which emerging economies - and also the US - are committing to aggressive industrial policies based on massive investment in research and development in key sectors, competing with Europe, with the advantage that they do not have the same environmental, social and labour constraints.
Despite its many virtues, the Europe 2020 strategy is not a magic wand for European industry in a world where competition is global and fierce.
Although dynamic, it has not escaped the economic crisis and needs to be at the forefront of the European policy agenda advocated by this report.
Indeed, industrial policy should be central to our concerns, as it relates to the future, by creating employment and promoting investment in production.
The EU needs a coherent industrial policy that conveys confidence to companies and helps them to overcome the crisis.
This is because we cannot forget that an industrial policy is also a social policy, and I am therefore voting in favour of this report.
However, I would like to draw attention to the need to strengthen support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ the majority of workers in the EU's business sector, and to implement origin marking.
On the one hand, it has some positive aspects, which we appreciate, defending industry and small and medium-sized enterprises.
The presence of modern and efficient industry which creates jobs and is environmentally sustainable is an important tool for development in every country and region.
However, the current framework of EU policies, in which the most negative aspects have been worsening over the years, is markedly unfavourable to this endeavour.
However, the report insists on advocating these policies.
Unfortunately, all the proposals were rejected by the majority in Parliament.
We therefore voted against in the final vote on the resolution by Parliament.
We would like industries that are efficient in terms of resource use, that are less dependent on carbon, that value jobs with rights, and that guarantee equal rights for women in terms of access to jobs, to promotion, to wages, and to participation in management and administrative bodies.
The Europe 2020 strategy has acknowledged the need to set out a new industrial policy in order to maintain a solid and sustainable industrial base in Europe.
Strong and prosperous industry is indeed a key factor for growth in the European Union and therefore, in the current context of globalisation and intense international competition, it is essential to create a framework that is even more favourable for its development.
The global market is reacting to the need to meet the demands of the model of consumption which has already been formed in highly developed and developing societies.
However, competitiveness 'at any price' is appearing, by which I mean competitiveness which is influenced by more than just the innovativeness of industry and changes in the model of consumption.
We can include the following in the catalogue of unfavourable phenomena which accompany competitiveness: a model of consumption, imposed by industry, which squanders energy and raw materials; competition which is based not on the superiority of the methods used but on the financial supremacy of wealthy monopolistic corporations; a fragmentary competitiveness which is concerned only with the final phase of processing and not gross competitiveness, by which I mean competitiveness which takes account of the preparation of raw materials and materials for production; the taking over of raw materials and energy markets by supranational, often non-European, corporations; increases in energy prices and, as a result, of raw materials too, by regulations which impose a system of emissions trading on the EU Member States; unfair competition imposed mainly by large, supranational corporations, including financial corporations.
I treat this report as a good beginning to a very important discussion about the future of competitive industry in Europe, and so of Europe itself, so I voted in favour of its adoption.
For decades, the European Union has worked hard at destroying our industrial fabric and our industrial jobs, through European sectoral policies, European competition policy and European free trade policy, which all of you here have systematically praised, supported and promoted.
In the face of disaster, you are now tentatively coming round to what the Front national has been proposing for a very long time: recognising the crucial nature of an industrial base, developing strategic sectors, protecting against unfair competition and helping to penetrate external markets, guaranteeing and safeguarding raw material supplies, regulating takeover bids, making competition policy subject to strategic, socio-economic and public service requirements, providing public support to emerging or innovative sectors, and so on.
However, it is rather late in the day, and Europe, which has hung on to its ultraliberal ideological foundations, is definitely not the best level at which to make decisions and implement such policies.
I agreed with this report, because EU industry accounts for roughly a third of gross value added in the EU, with almost three quarters of European exports being made up of industrial goods, and a third of employment, providing subsistence to some 57 million people.
The recent profound economic crisis has hit European industry.
However, the crisis has also highlighted the importance of industry to the EU economy and made it evident that not enough has been done to comprehensively address its needs in the current challenging climate.
Manufacturing growth has fallen to its lowest level in the last two decades, and certain European industries are in permanent crisis as a result of unfair competition from third countries, particularly in the areas of labour relations, the environment and intellectual and industrial property protection.
It is necessary to combat the spread of the shadow economy and undeclared casual work during the crisis which distorts competition, and there are also proposals to facilitate SME participation in public procurement.
In the vote on the Lange report, I am abstaining on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording of the vote, which refers to Eurobonds as well as project bonds.
However, taking it as a whole, I am voting for the report, as I have nothing against project bonds in themselves.
Indeed, the resolution looks at a key sector that needs support in order to allow the European Union to implement an industrial policy that needs to marry the achievement of high levels of production with a commitment to competitive and sustainable renewal.
For this reason, I applaud the reference to the EU 2020 strategy, which must function as the guiding light for the complete implementation of Europe's priority actions through huge investment in innovation and research, which is necessary for growth and development in Europe.
Indeed, I think that the decision to start enhanced cooperation in a sector of strategic importance - namely, intellectual property - is not a correct decision or one that will bring positive consequences for European industry.
Industrial policy for the globalised era is becoming a great problem for the Union and for individual Member States.
The recent economic crisis has confirmed that small and medium-sized enterprises are still the driving force of economic and social development, playing a key role in promoting economic competitiveness and creating jobs.
It is also absolutely essential to introduce innovative incentive mechanisms, based on achieving the targets linked to smart, sustainable growth with an integration aspect, and to promote closer cooperation with the financial institutions.
However, to ensure its success, the European Commission needs to make significantly more funds available, including through innovation funds from ERDF sources, and to promote direct private investments and innovative financing mechanisms for high-risk innovative projects and those in which SMEs participate.
in writing. - I agree with this report that an EU strategy to promote strong and skilled human resources with a strong creative potential and active involvement in innovation and development, new and innovative technologies/processes/solutions which generate added value, R&amp;D geared to the needs of sustainable development, an efficient supply chain for the production of high quality goods and services, more efficiently organised production and management systems, overall greater resources efficiency that leads to a reduced carbon footprint, cost-efficient and sustainable modes of transport, smart and efficient logistics and high quality infrastructure, a consolidated and fully operational single internal market, and a level playing field in trade relations with third countries, is the only means of increasing the sustainability and competitiveness of European industry and thus maintaining its global leadership.
The report on an industrial policy for the era of globalisation is an important document in the crisis that has affected the European economy and industrial production in particular.
The EU does not need more strategic documents literally churned out by the Commission, but there is a pressing need for a change to its underpinnings, and particularly a move towards a social and peaceful union with a regulated financial sector.
Since we are debating a 'strategic' document as such, experience shows that it is not as difficult to produce such documents as it is to develop them subsequently in the individual areas, and to monitor and evaluate the effects of the proposed measures flexibly.
The area of intellectual property rights, for example, including industrial rights, is proof of this.
In the vote on the Lange report, I am abstaining on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording of the vote, which refers to Eurobonds as well as project bonds.
However, taking it as a whole, I am voting for the report, as I have nothing against project bonds in themselves.
European industry represents approximately a third of the EU's gross value added, as almost three quarters of European exports relate to industrial goods, and a third of employment.
Moreover, it has a multiplying effect, which means that approximately two additional jobs are created in associated services for every job in industry.
In view of this, no one is disputing the importance of the industrial sector to the economies of the Member States, but the economic crisis has cast doubt on the importance of this sector, to the detriment of the financial and service sectors, and it is time for us to review this situation and go back to investing heavily in this sector.
European industry is heading in the direction of specialisation and commitment to the quality of its products and to the latest technology.
In order to remain competitive amidst worldwide economic change, the significant economic sector that is industry must not be neglected.
Sustainability as well as humane working conditions should be both encouraged and demanded, for it is the case that competition from the emerging nations such as China, India and Brazil grows ever stronger and consequently, the pressure on the European internal market grows ever greater.
Sustainability and growth are two buzzwords often heard, above all, in industrial policy, but their implementation is seriously in doubt, due, primarily, to the lack of available resources.
I am abstaining because I am of the view that the measures proposed will not be in any way sufficient to secure Europe first place in the world in the industrial sector.
I voted in favour of this resolution because EU industry has been badly hit by the current economic crisis.
In today's world, there is huge competition in industry and, therefore, the industrial sector must remain competitive and innovative, supporting innovative ideas, and quality and technological leadership.
We must make every effort to ensure that existing resources (minerals) are used appropriately within the European Union, avoiding their export outside the EU's borders, and that we stop oligopolies from forming in trade.
European aid should go not towards a quick fix, but towards investments in the future that are focused on the creation of new jobs, so that every citizen has work in their own country.
These organisations are particularly important for actively creating and developing modern technologies and ensuring economic development and modernisation, while, at the same time, creating new jobs.
The report on an Industrial Policy for the Globalised Era lists precisely these objectives: industrial innovation and simplification of existing legislation with the interests of citizens at its heart, and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) - the beating heart of the European economy.
SMEs need to be guaranteed favourable conditions and easier access to financing.
It is important to emphasise that the means through which a dynamic and cutting-edge industrial policy will be realised is Structural Funds, which, if used correctly, will lay the foundations for growth in Europe.
EU industry accounts for roughly a third of gross value added in the EU, with almost three quarters of European exports being made up of industrial goods, and a third of employment, providing subsistence to some 57 million citizens (plus its multiplying effect whereby each job in industry creates approximately two extra jobs in related services).
There are 15 key elements: building an innovation chain; increasing resource efficiency; clear targets for sustainable products; using public tenders; enhancing clean energy production; a convincing raw materials strategy; reshaping trade for fair coexistence and sustainable production; outlining an obligatory sectoral industrial policy; involving SMEs; developing regional areas for action; ensuring anticipation of industrial change; restructuring; enhancing qualifications; enlarging workers' participation in decision making; and long-term policies.
EU industrial policy must be orientated towards both a sustainable, eco-efficient and globally competitive renewal of the industrial base and a sustainable transition from a mainly production-based towards a knowledge-based industry, while being definitely committed to investing in the EU and establishing strategic partnerships between companies in the Union.
Through this report, Parliament has highlighted important issues that deserve to be emphasised in terms of the growth of European industry.
I am referring to the recognition of the strategic role of small and medium-sized enterprises and to the need to make it easier to access credit with simplified funding procedures, as well as the importance of internationalisation as a key factor for competitiveness.
The link between innovation and the industrial world through continuous relations between enterprises and universities is also crucial and includes the sale of results and encouraging their use.
The recent economic and financial crisis has highlighted the importance of industry to the EU economy, which means that it is important to recognise the need for an integrated approach to industrial policy, combining competitiveness, innovation and sustainability, whilst, at the same time, showing itself capable of stimulating growth, creating jobs and ensuring environmental preservation.
Indeed, European industry is facing numerous challenges, so it is vital that there be commitment to investing in new technologies and solutions, in training of staff, in the efficiency of production systems and management models, and in strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises.
I voted for the report because I am convinced that an integrated industrial policy for Europe is indispensable, especially in the face of the new challenges brought about by globalisation, and a further development of industrial policy is therefore necessary.
A single job in industry creates at least two more jobs.
The report also calls for an integrated industrial policy to serve as the foundation for environmental, competition and trade policy, in order to improve resource efficiency.
The need to improve coordination between the EU and the Member States is also emphasised in the report.
I consider these measures to be absolutely necessary.
In the vote on the Lange report, I am abstaining on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording, which refers to Eurobonds as well as project bonds.
However, taking it as a whole, I am voting for the report, as I have nothing against project bonds in themselves.
European industry accounts for roughly a third of gross value added in the EU, with almost three quarters of European exports being made up of industrial goods, and a third of employment, providing subsistence to some 57 million people.
If its multiplying effect is accounted for, whereby each job in industry creates approximately two extra jobs in related services, its impact on employment is even more substantial.
Furthermore, EU industrial policy should be oriented both towards a sustainable, eco-efficient and globally competitive renewal of the industrial base and towards a sustainable transition from a mainly productive towards a knowledge-based industry.
The integration of all EU policies so as to combine all aspects that have an impact on industry is crucial.
I welcome the recognition that, to face the crisis and globalisation challenges, energy and resource efficiency must be the basis for European industrial renewal.
The report rightfully calls for closed-loop industrial systems, greater resource productivity, durability and re-use, recycling and remanufacturing.
The report also calls for instruments to foster the development and growth of eco-innovative SMEs, as well as the development of eco-industrial parks.
It is important to bring the EU's industrial policy in line with its climate and energy policy objectives.
The Greens expect the Commission to deliver on that challenge in its upcoming strategic initiatives, such as the resource efficiency strategy, the raw materials strategy and the Small Business Act.
At last, the European Union has recognised the fundamental role of industry, calling for simplification of access to credit and a reduction in red tape.
In recent years, we have witnessed the adoption of measures which cause heavy burdens for European industry and which favour the unfair competition of products imported from third countries.
The report highlights the importance of research as an instrument to fend off competition and notes the professional training of workers and the information that must be given to consumers.
Industry in Europe is facing not only the effects of the economic crisis, but also the new challenges of the globalised era.
The problems which the EU economy is having to face up to include demographic change and the downturn in productivity.
It is essential to continue work on the single market and harmonisation of customs and tax legislation.
It will be crucial to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the basis of European industry, by financial assistance in the area of innovation and technology transfer and by involving innovative and sustainable criteria in tenders for public procurement.
It should not be forgotten to ensure a rise in spending on research based on cooperation between the public and private sector.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which highlights ways in which the EU's industrial base may be strengthened.
Industry provides roughly a third of employment in the EU, which is why it is so vital that we ensure its ongoing viability.
European industry and its multiplier effect account for approximately a third of the EU's gross value added, and it provides a livelihood for 57 million people.
It is necessary to create an industrial policy which fosters coordination between the Member States and their competitive potential, as expressed in the Europe 2020 strategy.
The relevance of this report at a time of economic recession shows that, despite its importance, this sector is relegated to the background.
This evidence requires a closer look at the challenges which European industry will have to face, particularly the restructuring and reorientation of its makeup, based on a global knowledge society through innovation and research, in order to address the competitiveness of emerging economies.
Of the 15 points tabled by the rapporteur, I would like to highlight the measures that have an effect on small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs), which are the real driving force of the EU growth.
The simplification of European procedures for obtaining funding, more and better information given to the SMEs about operational programmes, the creation of innovation clusters and networks, as well as greater support on the part of the European Central Bank, are key initiatives for the success of European industrial policy.
In the vote on the Lange report, I am abstaining on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording of the vote, which refers to Eurobonds as well as project bonds.
However, taking it as a whole, I am voting for the report, as I have nothing against project bonds in themselves.
in writing. - I supported this report as it sets out the need for a coherent policy on the future of industry across the EU.
With over 60 million jobs in the EU generated by industrial manufacturing, a robust policy will help the EU overcome some of the challenges faced by manufacturers.
Making up part of the EU's 2020 strategy, this report outlines 15 'cornerstones' of a strong policy which will ensure that the EU can keep up with competitors from the US, China and Japan, who invest heavily in research and development into cutting-edge technology, and countries that are able to cut costs through cheap labour and have less stringent intellectual property rules.
Some of the most useful recommendations in the report include the need for an innovation chain which links industry-related research to innovation and application of the technology, and an increased emphasis on resource efficiency and sustainability which ties in with the aims of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The report has a number of positive aspects, such as the broad appeal to European enterprises to meet environmental standards, but only on a voluntary basis and without rigid impositions.
The central role of industry - and not just industrial policy - for the growth of the European Union is also correctly reiterated.
Particularly important are: the adoption of measures for the protection of intellectual property; the affirmation of an industrial innovation model that aims for excellence; the modernisation of industries, particularly with regard to environmental protection and the careful use of energy resources; and support for the creation of circumstances that assist in the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
