Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (DE) Mr President, the aim of the proposal is to establish a new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Partnership Agreement in the fisheries sector between the European Community and the Union of the Comoros.
Controlled fishing is always better than uncontrolled fishing.
This Chamber is in plain violation of its own regulations.
One of the things we have to look at is the impact of our policies in the EU.
There is disagreement with the Commission over the legal basis, but I share the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which unanimously adopted the application of Article 43(2), and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Sole Article of Protocol (No 34) on Special Arrangements with Greenland.
This is probably due to the fact that, contrary to widespread perceptions, the overall number of people claiming asylum in the west has dropped by more than 40% over the past decade, according to data just released by the United Nations.
A total of 358 000 asylum applications were made in industrialised countries in 2010, compared with 620 000 applications filed in 2001.
The drop is mainly due to push factors in the areas of origin.
This means that the picture is much more encouraging than is usually thought. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, naturally, I wish to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur on this report which really signals a significant step forward in EU policies, in its invitation to the Commission to submit a proposal for a directive on the procedures to be adopted by Member States to recognise, and possibly revoke, international protection.
In particular, I think of the positive amendments that were approved; for example, the whole question of greater safeguards with regard to minors, since I believe that children must not be detained under any circumstance (which is exactly what has been happening in Lampedusa, where children have been treated in exactly the same way as adults, together with adults, often in totally unacceptable conditions).
It would have been better to have this directive in place before these dramatic events took place in Europe and Africa.
Another very important issue is that of vulnerable people and their issues, especially women, and problems relating to family matters and reunions.
I have been to Lampedusa and have seen that all the children were treated according to Italian and, above all, international rules.
I believe that all Member States should be obliged fully to respect the principle of non-refusal and the right to asylum.
Responsibility must, therefore, be shared, using the resources of the European Fund for Refugees and asking the European Office for strong support to implement the right of asylum, including provision for support in terms of border staff training and improving European asylum mechanisms. (DA) Mr President, the report that we have adopted today states that the Commission's proposal is pragmatic.
I find it very difficult to see what is pragmatic about taking away the opportunity for people in the 27 Member States to decide for themselves the population makeup of their own countries.
This report is a development of the common immigration and asylum policy under the Lisbon Treaty.
I do not want the Lisbon Treaty, or a common immigration and asylum policy.
That is why I supported the objective of creating a common framework for the systematic production of harmonised European statistics on supply and demand in Member States, and of adapting, as is necessary, the legal framework to reflect recent trends, such as same-day visits.
The systematic collection of information is a necessary tool for defining effective policies and facilitating decision making in the private sector.
I also supported the introduction of satellite accounts, because they would be better able to show the effects of tourism on the economy and on jobs, and would have enabled us to more accurately define policies for the future. (GA) Mr President, the tourism industry has been very important for Europe and will be more important in the future, especially if we are to create jobs, particularly in remote and rural areas.
I also voted for amendment 6 by Mr Struan Stevenson in relation to doing away with the scandalous business of the discarding of haddock.
Last, and by no means least, I supported amendment 3, which was proposed by my Portuguese colleague, Mrs Patrão Neves, which supports Portuguese fishermen.
I voted in favour of the financial measures because it was necessary to amend the regulation in order to adapt it to current demands and to the functioning of the Union.
It also guarantees uniform conditions for implementing measures concerning control and enforcement, and for the expenditure incurred by Member States in implementing the control system and enforcement applicable to the common fisheries policy, and in the area of the collection, management and use of basic data.
The financial measures also include the economic aspects of fisheries and aquaculture and a reference to data collection relating to environmental measures.
That is why I voted in favour of the initiative. (FI) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report, but we have to set an example and be very meticulous, especially as far as budgetary discipline is concerned.
That is why on this point, I voted against the group's proposal on behalf of the S&amp;D Group regarding Amendment 8. (DA) Mr President, I voted against this budget report, but I would actually like to thank the many fellow Members - a few too many, unfortunately - who voted in favour, because it gave a wonderful picture of the shift in the perception of reality here in the European Parliament and here in the EU's institutions in relation to the outside world where the people who we are actually creating regulations for are to be found.
Despite the fact that we have asked the Member States and other institutions to make cuts, we have doubled the expenditure in a number of areas for the European Parliament itself and for the EU institutions in general.
This has happened, for example, by introducing the intention now to build a completely new museum for glorifying European history and the European institutions, etc.
I believe that an incredible number of people out there in the Member States, where they are experiencing cuts at national level, are wondering how their representatives in the European Parliament can so casually play fast and loose with money, even in the middle of a financial crisis. (ES) Mr President, if you do not mind, I would like to mention something before I finish.
Indeed, the interpreters merit our appreciation for the excellent work they do both in the House and in the Committees. (FI) Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this budget, revenue and expenditure.
We must definitely ensure in this economic situation and, furthermore, here in the European Parliament, that expenditure is kept under control.
It is therefore important that airline tickets should be exchangeable.
This is in order to avoid situations where, for example, less than 20% of registered voters participate in European Parliament elections, as happened in my own country.
I agree with the idea that these political parties should have a common and single legal statute, as well as their own legal personality based directly on the laws and treaties of the EU.
As far as the funding system is concerned, transparency forms an inseparable part of the implementation of values, and the first priority must therefore be to have unambiguous funding conditions. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 325 obliges the Commission and Member States to protect the financial interests of the European Union and to combat fraud in areas where this responsibility is shared between the Union and the Member States.
According to Article 325(5), the Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council an annual report on measures taken for the implementation of this Article.
I agree that we need to quantify in greater detail the recovery levels of funds unduly paid to the EU Member States by gathering specific data.
Therefore, while we do need to remain vigilant about fraud, we also need to simply, simplify and simplify again the rules. (FI) Mr President, I voted in favour of this proposal, which is a very worthy one, as it concerns whether we should fund parties using taxpayers' money.
In my opinion, the parties must also have their own system of fund raising, even if it is on a small scale.
That is a very small amount when we consider that this is a matter of taxpayers' money, and we should be very meticulous in these matters. (PL) Mr President, the Giannakou report paves the way to fulfilment of the provisions of Article 10(4) of the Treaty on European Union and Article 244 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Parliament and the Council should work together to define the status of a party at European level and their foundations, and should establish rules for funding both parties and foundations.
However, it is necessary to call attention to the provisions of paragraphs 10 and 11 of the report, which concern the future of transnational lists in elections to Parliament.
Another important matter is the timing of these proposals - the crisis and the proposed savings are also a cause of reluctance to increasing the size of European institutions.
From our point of view, I think a more important matter is the possibility of increasing the size of the European Parliament in connection with enlargement of the European Union by the accession of new Member States rather than the possibility of increasing its size on the basis of new lists. (DA) Mr President, I, too, would like to see clear rules for the European parties, but I must essentially question what the point of the European parties actually is.
It is not fair that the public, once again, have to use their resources to fund politicians.
This Chamber found out only recently how politicians do need to be regulated, but the funding of political parties for a European ideal can never be right.
When we talk of consumer protection, however, Amendment 3 was important in that connection.
I voted in favour of this amendment and against the recommendations of my group, because I believe that levels of consumer protection in my country, for example, are extremely high.
The volume of the EU internal market in services represents 28% of the global trade in services.
If this mass is set in motion in the right direction, it should achieve results in the form of economic growth based on the dynamic of our own resources.
It will hold true only if a more functional Single Market unlocks new potential for the implementation of products and activities originating from the EU, and on the markets of the EU.
It was also about the totally unique labour market model that we know from the Nordic countries, where it is not legislators but the social partners who decide on wage conditions and conditions for the labour market, the fact that it is they who set the rules and that we should retain and protect the Nordic labour model rather than undermine it; two completely harmless proposals that I am convinced would receive a significant majority in a vote amongst European citizens are voted down in this House.
This reveals the shift in the perception of reality that is characteristic of the Members here in the European Parliament. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Single Market is a valuable tool for economic recovery in the European Union, particularly for the creation of new jobs.
For this reason, I voted in favour of this report. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe it represents a further step forward towards the creation of a well-functioning, integrated single European market.
Today, Europe is one of the major economies of the world but its potential is still huge, especially with regard to economic and employment growth.
Europe needs to offer them greater protection, facilitating their access to credit, reducing bureaucracy and promoting the development of electronic commerce.
Only in this way will we be able to create a social economy based on growth, competitiveness and sustainability.
I also merely wanted to clarify that paragraph 54, which deals with public services, services of general interest, is problematic, and we therefore voted against part of this paragraph, which continues to call, ideologically but in veiled terms, for further liberalisation.
We argue instead in favour of European public services and securing the European framework, leaving each Member State the option to continue organising public services as they wish, especially at territorial level. (PL) Mr President, a Single Market without exclusions, either of citizens or of businesses - that, in a word, is how I could describe the main thrust of today's debate on the now endorsed package of reports on the Single Market Act.
It is very important for SMEs to have access to public procurement procedures.
The announcement that these procedures are to be simplified, and, in particular, that the financial barriers in public procurement which exclude SMPs are to be reduced, and also that specific features of the local market are to be taken into account in procurement, is deserving of particular support.
Similarly, it should be recognised that SMEs expect help in gaining access to the market, they expect administrative measures which will make it easier for them to operate and they also expect a solution in the area of patents.
Written explanations of vote I am in favour of this report, since I agree with the amount recommended for repairing the damage caused by flooding in the countries of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Romania, totalling EUR 182 388 893.
I agreed with this report which approves without amendment the Council's position on Draft amending budget 1/2011.
This Draft amending budget aims at mobilising the EU Solidarity Fund for an amount of EUR 182.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations in order to mitigate the effects of flooding resulting from heavy rainfalls in Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia and Romania.
I believe that in general, the EU Solidarity Fund should be mobilised as swiftly as possible following a natural catastrophe, and that applications for financial assistance should be dealt with in an effective and fast-acting manner, so that it is possible to provide urgent financial assistance to countries that have suffered natural disasters.
I supported the report because the Member States which were affected by the flooding caused by torrential rain expect the sum of EUR 182.4 million to be included.
The Commission proposes to amend the Commission budget for 2011 so as to cater for the need to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund to the sum of EUR 182.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations in order to mitigate the effects of flooding resulting from heavy rainfall in Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia and Romania.
The report under discussion deals with the Council's position on Draft amending budget No 1/2011 of the European Union for the current year.
Since existing budget appropriations are insufficient to cover the applications, I agree with this amending budget - the first proposal for mobilisation of the EUSF presented by the Commission - which proposes a reinforcement of EUR 182 388 893 in commitment and payment appropriations.
This amending budget aims to respond to the request for mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF) to repair the damage caused by disasters that affected five Member States as well as Croatia in May and June 2010.
These were 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances', as defined in the Financial Regulation, and therefore, in our view, this procedure is both justified and necessary.
The amount mobilised in support of these countries - EUR 182.4 million - represents only about 3% of the total damage, which is estimated at about EUR 5 512.7 million.
The Member States of the EU have been hard hit by a considerable number of disasters in recent years.
This is a report on the Draft amending budget that aims to respond to the request for mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF) to repair the damage caused by disasters that affected five Member States, as well as Croatia, in May and June 2010.
These were 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances', as defined in the Financial Regulation, and therefore, in our view, this procedure is both justified and necessary.
The amount mobilised in support of these countries - EUR 182.4 million - represents only about 3% of the total damage, which is estimated at about EUR 5 512.7 million.
The Member States of the EU have been hard hit by a considerable number of disasters in recent years.
in writing. - I voted for this Commission proposal for mobilisation of the EUSF which is based on point 26 of the IIA of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management that allows for such mobilisation within an annual ceiling of EUR 1 billion.
This proposal for mobilisation of the EUSF is the first to be presented by the Commission for the year 2011.
This Draft amending budget makes sense, considering the purpose of the funds mobilised through the Solidarity Fund to address the effects of the landslides and severe flooding resulting from heavy rainfall in Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia and Romania.
Natural disasters are no longer a rarity in Europe.
This report refers to Draft amending budget No 1/2011 to the general budget for 2011, the aim of which is to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund to the sum of EUR 182.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations in order to mitigate the effects of flooding resulting from heavy rainfall in Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia and Romania.
The only purpose of Draft amending budget No 1/2011 is to formally incorporate this budgetary amendment into the budget for 2011.
The reasons given fully justify this amending budget, and I therefore voted in favour of this report.
I voted in favour of this Draft amending budget, the aim of which is to respond to the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund to the sum of EUR 182.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations in order to mitigate the effects of flooding resulting from heavy rainfall in Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia and Romania.
I believe that in general, the EU Solidarity Fund should be mobilised as swiftly as possible following a natural catastrophe, and that applications for financial assistance should be dealt with in an effective and fast-acting manner, so that it is possible to provide urgent financial assistance to countries that have suffered natural catastrophes.
The aim of the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF) is to provide swift, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a Member State, or a country negotiating accession, in the event of a major natural disaster.
This fund supplements the Member States' public funds in emergency situations, specifically for urgent infrastructure repairs, temporary shelter and emergency services to cater for the people's immediate needs, as well as clearing up in the areas affected by the disaster.
The floods which hit the countries in the east of the European Union last year caused huge material damage in practically every region.
Many people are still waiting for the financial assistance promised by the authorities.
The serious damage primarily concerns agriculture, infrastructure, the transport network and cultural heritage sites.
I welcome the decision of the European Parliament to release funds from the EU Solidarity Fund for the Central European states affected by last year's floods.
It was therefore necessary to request an exemption for the Czech Republic, based on the fact that our land was affected by the same natural disaster as neighbouring Poland, where the consequences were more destructive.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Romania following the severe flooding that affected these countries in May and June 2010.
The support that this decision received from a large majority in the relevant parliamentary committee shows the breadth of support that it enjoys.
In May and June 2010, Central and Eastern Europe was lashed by a severe storm which caused enormous damage in certain Member States, particularly through the destruction of public infrastructure, farms, road and rail networks, and public and private assets.
Flooding in Poland affected almost the whole country, causing damage exceeding 0.85% of Gross National Income (GNI); in Slovakia, the storm left some areas under water, caused landslides and flooding, and led to damage in the order of 0.89% of GNI; in Hungary, the damage amounts to 0.73% of GNI; in Romania, it is estimated at over EUR 875 million, or 0.67% of GNI; in Croatia, it exceeds EUR 153 million (0.6% of GNI); and in the Czech Republic, the amount is EUR 204 million (0.6% of GNI).
This situation justifies the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund and has led to the approval of the first amending budget for 2011.
Thus, since it is covered by the Draft amending budget that has already been approved, and in view of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development, I agree with the rapporteur's position on the mobilisation of EUR 182 388 893 to help with the repair of public infrastructure damaged by the storms in the abovementioned Member States.
In four countries - Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania - the disasters qualify as 'major natural disasters' according to the definition given in the EUSF Regulation; in other words, the damage is estimated to exceed 0.6% of their Gross National Incomes.
We consider the mobilisation of this support to be important and necessary, and we therefore voted in favour of the report.
In this case, the disasters occurred in May and June 2010.
In four countries - Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania - the disasters qualify as 'major natural disasters' according to the definition given in the EUSF Regulation; in other words, the damage is estimated to exceed 0.6% of their Gross National Incomes.
It should be noted that the disasters occurred in May and June 2010.
The floods of 2010 affected extensive areas across several Central European countries.
The people living in these areas cannot cope with the consequences of the floods on their own.
They cannot resolve the consequences from their own resources, because the budgets of the individual states are burdened with the economic and financial crisis.
The natural elements consequently did extensive damage in the affected areas to both public and private infrastructure, as well as road and rail transport, while agriculture was also affected.
It is therefore appropriate to provide the affected European states with the necessary financial assistance, so that they can tackle the consequences of the natural disaster and be able to return to normal life as soon as possible.
I agreed with this document, because the Commission has informed Parliament in its proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund (COM (2011)0010) that, on the basis of applications for assistance by Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania and candidate country Croatia relating to the flooding disasters of May, June and July 2010, it proposes the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund.
In order to avoid undue delay in approving this measure, which the Committee on Budgets intends to adopt as soon as possible, it should be noted that the Committee on Regional Development has no objection to the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund to provide the sum of EUR 182 388 893 to the countries concerned as proposed by the Commission, and in accordance with the rules laid down in the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 and in Council Regulation (EC) No 2012/2002.
At the moment, in order to help citizens who have already suffered so much following last year's floods, the Council is forcing us to slash funds from very important programmes.
Furthermore, if we look at which Member States are currently blocking in Council the notion of 'new money' to cover the fund's needs, we will notice that it is those which, in their turn, have benefited from receiving large sums of money in previous years.
In contrast to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, I consider the Solidarity Fund, the resources of which are intended for covering damage caused by natural disasters, as a genuine manifestation of European solidarity.
I very much appreciate the fact that this report also proposes the allocation of resources to cover flood damage to public property in the Czech Republic.
I appreciate the fact that the Czech Republic has obtained resources from the Solidarity Fund to cover damages all the more for the fact that the surrounding countries were affected by the flood wave more than the Czech Republic.
As part of support for the idea of solidarity in times of need and suffering, reflection is needed on how to prevent floods.
I am very pleased that such constructive decisions are made in the European Parliament.
in writing. - I support this Commission proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund.
I would like to express my satisfaction at today's vote in favour of approving mobilisation of the European Solidarity Fund in order to provide aid to Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Croatia for the floods there last year.
Although there remains disagreement between Parliament and the Council on the technical procedure for the procurement of EUR 182.4 million needed to compensate Member States for damages, Europe has once again demonstrated its solidarity with its citizens.
I agree with the use of the 2010 budget surplus to cover the 'negative reserves' used to find the necessary funds.
Solidarity is the main feature of the European Union.
Based on this solidarity, I consider timely and necessary the report on the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund for the floods which affected Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia and Romania in 2010.
This solidarity will be all the more necessary as climate change continues to trigger disasters throughout the whole of Europe.
The European Union's efforts must be channelled towards consolidating the actions taken by Member States to prevent and reduce the impact of major floods in Europe, which have become increasingly frequent.
Last but not least, I would like to stress how important it is for citizens to be informed about and participate in the actions and plans for flood management.
Last year's intense rainfalls resulted in a disastrous situation in Central European countries.
Important areas such as tourism and industry were severely damaged.
This assistance will cover part of the cost of the immediate measures needed to rebuild damaged infrastructure.
The damage was estimated at almost EUR 900 million, which is nearly 0.7% of Romania's GDP.
The Commission is proposing to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Romania, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (IIA).
Alongside this proposal to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Romania, the Commission also presented a Draft amending budget.
The direct costs of the floods which hit Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia and Romania in 2010 amount to EUR 5 512 719 662.
However, I voted for the Council's proposal as I think that citizens who were victims of the flooding cannot become victims of an interinstitutional battle between Member States and the European Parliament.
The issue at hand is the requests for assistance submitted by Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania and Croatia (as a candidate country) in order to deal with the substantial damage caused by the disastrous floods in these countries in May, June and July 2010.
Since all these requests meet the eligibility criteria laid down in Regulation (EC) No 2012/2002, I voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund to allocate the sum of EUR 182 388 893 to the countries in question, in the expectation that this support may help to speed up the reconstruction of the areas affected and mitigate the suffering of their populations.
All of these states were affected last year by powerful floods, as a result of torrential rain which caused landslides and substantial loss of human life, as well as damage to residential buildings, businesses, farming areas, the road and rail networks and other infrastructure.
Although the amount of the proposed assistance represents only a few percent of the total quantified damage for most countries, it is still significant assistance, amounting in total to EUR 182 million.
I would like to point out that the EU established the Solidarity Fund in order to assist the inhabitants of regions hit by natural disasters.
I would like to thank Members for supporting this report.
The Commission proposes to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund for Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Romania on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (IIA).
In parallel to the proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund for Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Romania, the Commission has presented a Draft amending budget (DAB No 1/2011 of 14 January 2011) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2011 budget, as foreseen in point 26 of the IIA.
I voted in favour of this text because we need to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund on behalf of those countries in Central and Eastern Europe which suffered damage due to flooding in 2010.
The floods of 2010 affected several European countries, to varying degrees.
I voted for the adoption of the report, including the release of funds for the Czech Republic and for Croatia, which presents a similar case.
I endorsed the report on mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund, in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
EU financial support will help in the reconstruction of public infrastructure which was damaged by the disaster: water mains, sewage systems, roads and bridges.
Almost a year has already passed since the floods.
To do this, procedures for granting financial aid from the Solidarity Fund should be shortened.
I am also in favour of this report because it represents an advance on the previous agreement, in that it provides for implementation of the protocol to be suspended in the event of human rights violations.
However, since the aim of this protocol is to strengthen partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector through the use of all available financial instruments, I would draw attention to the immediate need for a framework favouring increased investment in the sector and optimisation of small-scale fishery production in the sector.
While exploitable stocks in the Union of the Comoros, mostly large pelagic fish, are estimated at 33 000 tonnes per year, annual catches by local fishermen amount to approximately 16 000 tonnes, which are completely absorbed by the local market.
The main objective of the new protocol is to define the fishing opportunities offered to EU vessels for access rights and sectoral support and to continue the cooperation between the EU and the UoC, with a view to expanding the partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the Comorian fishing zone in the interests of both parties.
The conclusion of bilateral agreements in the fisheries sector between the European Union and countries outside it, termed 'Fisheries Partnership Agreements', is standard practice under the common fisheries policy.
On the one hand, it improves the fishing opportunities offered to EU vessels in the Comorian fishing zone as any opportunities for depleting the local stocks in the area are excluded.
On the other hand, the EU allocates funds for the development of the sectoral fisheries policy in the Comoros.
I agree with the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Partnership Agreement in the fisheries sector between the European Community and the Union of the Comoros.
I consider said protocol to be positive since it promotes responsible and sustainable fishing in Comorian territorial waters and serves the interests of both parties, as it offers EU vessels fishing opportunities in exchange for important sectoral support for the community in the archipelago of the Comoros.
I voted in favour of the recommendation on the EC-Comoros fishing agreement, since the parties undertake to promote sustainable and responsible fishing in the Comorian fishing zone and since it provides for a suspension clause in the event of human rights violations in the Union of the Comoros.
The current protocol to the Fisheries Agreement in force between the European Community and the Union of the Comoros, one of many fisheries partnership agreements of which the European Union is a co-signatory, expired on 31 December 2010.
The new protocol will be concluded for a three-year period (2011-2013), starting with the entry into force of the Council decision on the provisional application of said protocol and following the expiry of the protocol in force.
The aim of the proposal for a decision is to set out the fishing opportunities for European Union vessels on the basis of the excess stock available, as well as the financial contribution separately due for access rights and sectoral support.
The new protocol serves the interests of both parties and aims to reinforce fisheries cooperation through the use of the financial instruments that are available.
The need has been felt to create a framework favouring the development of investment in this sector and to optimise small-scale fishery production.
This report focuses on a proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the terms on which European Union (EU) fishing vessels can carry out fishing operations in the waters of the Union of the Comoros.
Over the years, the EU has established fisheries partnership agreements with a number of countries and, in exchange, has made a certain financial contribution intended essentially to support national fisheries policies, particularly to protect stocks.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament has taken on increased responsibilities in this sector, and we now have to give our consent to new fisheries agreements.
As the EU/Union of the Comoros protocol expired on 31 December 2010, it urgently needs to be renewed.
The proposal in question serves the interests of both parties, as the rapporteur explains very well, and I therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
This report supports the new protocol of the partnership agreement in the fisheries sector between the EU and the Comoros, which will be in force for three years, and whose main objective is to define the fishing opportunities offered to EU vessels, the financial contribution owed for access rights and sectoral support.
This is an agreement concerning access rights to Comorian waters for 70 European boats in exchange for a financial contribution of around EUR 600 000 per year, with around half of this amount being intended for the development of the country's fisheries sector.
It is here that the so-called partnership agreements in this area have failed most visibly, which should be cause for reflection and for policy changes.
Authorisation to fish will be given to 45 tuna seiners - 22 of which are French and 22 Spanish - and 25 surface longliners: this is more than the protocol currently in force, which authorises 40 seiners and 17 longliners.
I agree with this document, because the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the European Community and non-member countries, termed 'Fisheries Partnership Agreements' (FPA) since 2004, has been standard practice under the common fisheries policy (CFP) and is central to the policy's external dimension.
Under the agreements with African and Pacific countries, the EU's financial contribution is, to a large extent, expressly intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability and sound management of fishery resources.
I believe that the proposed new protocol for the Fisheries Partnership Agreement with the Union of the Comoros serves the interests of both parties.
The aim of the new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the partnership agreement in the fisheries sector between the European Community and the Union of the Comoros is to strengthen the partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector using all the available financial instruments.
The Council's draft recommendation regarding the establishment of a protocol which stipulates fishing quotas and financial contribution as set out by the partnership with the fisheries sector of the Union of the Comoros is intended to outline the role that the European Parliament should play in the procedure of reviewing this agreement.
Europe has always pursued partnership agreements in the fisheries sector and the partnership with the Union of the Comoros has been in force since 1988.
The objective of this new protocol is to set out the fishing quotas to be offered to fishing vessels of the Union of the Comoros, providing a sustainable and responsible use of fishery resources, increasing investment in small-scale fisheries and enhancing their activity.
The draft Council decision on the project ensures that both partners, Europe and the Union of the Comoros, will benefit from the renewal of the agreement but, since, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament has gained a specific role in the implementation of the agreements, it seems inevitable that, at each step until the final approval of the agreement, we must identify the measures that will involve Parliament.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the European Community and non-member countries, termed 'Fisheries Partnership Agreements' (FPA) since 2004, has been standard practice under the common fisheries policy (CFP) and is central to the policy's external dimension.
Under the agreements with African and Pacific countries, the EU's financial contribution is, to a large extent, expressly intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability and sound management of fishery resources.
This new agreement replaces the one previously in force, which expired on 31 December 2010.
This kind of agreement makes it possible for EU fishing vessels to access the fishing zones of the Comoros islands in exchange for a financial contribution.
In this case, it will give more help to the fisheries sector, since this sector will absorb about 50% of the funds contributed.
in writing. - The Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Comoros expired in December 2010.
The new protocol is valid from 2011 to 2013 and should be provisionally applied while the European Parliament's consent procedure is not closed.
With regard to fishing opportunities, 45 tuna seiners and 25 surface longliners will be authorised to fish.
The new agreement in comparison with the former one contains a clause to interrupt the implementation of the protocol in case of human rights violations.
I believe that it is necessary to strengthen partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector using all financial instruments available.
Therefore, I voted 'for'.
The conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the European Community and non-member countries, termed 'Fisheries Partnership Agreements' (FPA), has been standard practice under the common fisheries policy (CFP) and is central to the policy's external dimension.
This proposal for a new protocol to the FPA between the European Union and the Comoros islands is an integral part of the CFP's external dimension and serves the interests of both parties.
This report makes the following recommendations, which are considered relevant: • The Commission should send Parliament the conclusions of the meetings and proceedings of the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the agreement, as well as the multiannual sectoral programme referred to in Article 7(c) of the protocol and the findings of the annual assessments; • Representatives of the European Parliament, acting as observers, should be allowed to attend Joint Committee meetings and proceedings; • The Commission should submit an implementation review of the agreement to Parliament and the Council before the agreement is renegotiated; • Parliament and the Council should be treated fairly both as regards the right to be immediately and fully informed and in connection with the monitoring and assessment of the implementation of international fisheries agreements and with negotiations on their revision.
For the above reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
The purpose of this protocol is to replace the protocol annexed to the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Comoros islands, which expired on 31 December 2010.
The main objective of the new protocol is to define the fishing opportunities offered to EU vessels for access rights and for sectoral support and to continue the cooperation between the European Union and the Union of the Comoros, so as to encourage the establishment of a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the Comorian fishing zone.
in writing. - I voted against.
The conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the European Community and non-member countries, termed 'Fisheries Partnership Agreements' (FPA) since 2004, has been standard practice under the common fisheries policy (CFP) and is central to the policy's external dimension.
Under the agreements with African and Pacific countries, the EU's financial contribution is, to a large extent, expressly intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability and sound management of fishery resources.
The signing of bilateral fisheries agreements between the European Community and third countries has always been a practice of the common fisheries policy and, hence, a central aspect of its foreign policy dimension.
The agreements with African and Pacific countries provide that a substantial share of the EU reciprocal financial arrangements be designated to support the national fishery policies based on principles of sustainability and good resources management.
Bilateral relations in the fisheries sector between the European Community and the Union of the Comoros date back to 1988.
The resolution adopted today emphasises the fact that better information for and greater control by the European Parliament at all stages of negotiations would strengthen the partnership and would have a positive impact on the development of fisheries.
It is necessary that both the European Parliament and the Council be placed on an equal footing, whether regarding the right to be fully and immediately informed, or relating to the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of international agreements in fisheries and also to any negotiation of revisions to those agreements.
The EU fishing fleet is in operation throughout the world.
A bilateral relationship has been in place between what is now known as the EU and the Union of the Comoros since 1988.
The current revision of the 2006 Partnership Agreement in the fisheries sector as part of the process of extending it has also resulted in the basic principles of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fishery resources in the Comoros fishing zone being included in the agreement.
In this context, the rapporteur's call for more information and more control on the part of Parliament must be strongly supported.
Improving the Euromed trade agreement may contribute towards economic and political stability in this region with a view to consolidating a single space governed by values such as peace, justice, equality, freedom and democracy.
The creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is intended to provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within fixed time limits, which could increase the security and the predictability of bilateral trade relations, thereby improving the functioning of the Euromed Free Trade Area.
in writing. - (BG) I voted for this resolution because an effective mechanism needs to be established for settling trade disputes between the European Union and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
The proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms from the most recent agreements concluded by the European Union, which comply with the World Trade Organisation's dispute settlement rules and procedures.
This mechanism will support the functioning of the Euromed Free Trade Area, but will mainly bring stability to bilateral trade relations between the European Union and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
All improvements to the Euro-Mediterranean agreements have an important impact on the countries' economic and political stability, contributing to the innumerable social and democratic gains that result from them.
I therefore accept the need for a mechanism to apply resources simply and effectively, so I agree with the draft Council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of a protocol between the European Union and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
The aim of this protocol is to establish a dispute settlement mechanism applicable to disputes under the trade provisions of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement.
The Euro-Mediterranean agreements contain provisions to liberalise the trade in goods, but the rules for settling disputes arising from them relied primarily on diplomacy and could easily be blocked by the 'injuring' party.
The Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with its partners from the Mediterranean in 2006 with a view to establishing trade dispute settlement mechanisms, modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the most recent agreements concluded by the European Union within the World Trade Organisation.
A draft agreement was initialled with Jordan on 9 December 2009.
This recommendation is based on a draft Council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the European Union and Jordan, the aim of which is to implement a dispute settlement mechanism as part of the Euro-Mediterranean agreement.
In general, resolving trade conflicts between countries by diplomatic means has not always had the desired effect.
I am voting for this draft legislative resolution of the European Parliament, as I am aware that it will significantly improve relations between the states in terms of free trade and contribute to the political and economic stability of this region.
I therefore welcome the new agreement and hope that, after it comes into force, no conflict of any kind will arise between the EU or its Member States and Jordan.
The 'alternative' model being proposed to us fits into the logic promoted within the World Trade Organisation which, in search of supposed efficiency, seeks to bypass national sovereignty, the resolution of disputes through respect for each country's particularities, and the right of these countries to defend their interests and those of their peoples.
Resolving disputes by diplomatic means guarantees equality of treatment between countries.
This mechanism, by contrast, subverts this principle, encouraging the movement of capital and putting economic power before political power, and the interests of capital before the interests of countries and their peoples.
The 'alternative' model being proposed to us fits into the logic promoted within the World Trade Organisation which, in search of supposed efficiency, seeks to bypass national sovereignty, the resolution of disputes through respect for each country's particularities, and the right of these countries to defend their interests and those of their peoples.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is welcomed, as it should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits.
Furthermore, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations and could represent a further step towards the setting up and proper functioning of the Euromed Free Trade Area.
The past shows us that diplomacy has not managed to be effective at resolving the various disputes that exist.
I therefore welcome the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism, which should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits.
In addition, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and predictability of our bilateral trade relations, and represents a further step towards the creation and proper functioning of the Euro-Mediterranean Free Trade Area.
in writing. - I know that the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the most recent agreements concluded by the European Union and on the WTO.
Bilateral trade agreements should always be fully compatible with the multilateral trading system.
With this report, the European Parliament is agreeing to the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism, which will provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits when there is a need to settle conflicts between the European Union and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, resulting from the trade provisions of the Euro-Mediterranean agreement.
In practice, such an approach proved ineffective and led to situations in which certain disputes remained unresolved, as they could easily be blocked by the 'injuring' party.
The proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations, and could represent a further step towards the creation and proper functioning of the Euro-Mediterranean Free Trade Area.
My vote in favour was motivated by each of these facts.
I voted in favour of concluding this EU-Jordan agreement whose goal is establishing a mechanism for settling disputes under the trade provisions of the Euro-Mediterranean agreements.
This solution is neither efficient nor transparent, which is why I voted in favour of establishing a standard dispute settlement mechanism, as this will enable players on both sides of the Mediterranean to trade in a safer and more predictable environment.
Ultimately, therefore, adding such mechanisms to an increasing number of agreements will create a level playing field not only for European economic players, but also for their partners in third countries.
These negotiations originate from what was, in fact, an area ungoverned by legislation, which meant that no procedures were available for resolving disputes between the EU and the Mediterranean countries.
I voted for this resolution because an effective mechanism needs to be established for settling trade disputes between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco.
The proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms from the most recent agreements concluded by the European Union, which comply with the World Trade Organisation's dispute settlement rules and procedures.
This mechanism will bring stability to bilateral trade relations between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco.
All improvements to the Euro-Mediterranean agreements have an important impact on the countries' economic and political stability, contributing to the innumerable social and democratic gains that result from them.
I therefore accept the need for a mechanism that will enable the application of resources in a simple and efficient way, so I agree with the draft Council decision on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco establishing a Dispute Settlement Mechanism.
in writing. - (RO) Given that the current regulations for settling disputes rely on a diplomatic approach and can easily be blocked by the party which is failing to fulfil its obligations, I think that adopting this agreement will improve the security and predictability of trade relations between the European Union and Morocco, making it beneficial to both companies and consumers.
I hope that the envisaged mechanism will come into force and that it will contribute to reinforcing the parties' trust, as well as that the Kingdom of Morocco will be able to continue with the reforms already started by Hassan II and carried forward by Mohammed VI.
This recommendation is based on a draft Council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the European Union and Morocco, whose goal is to implement a dispute settlement mechanism as part of the Euro-Mediterranean agreement.
In general, resolving trade conflicts between countries using diplomatic means has not always had the desired effect.
I am voting in favour of this draft legislative resolution of the European Parliament as I am aware that it will significantly improve relations between the states in terms of free trade and contribute to the political and economic stability of this region.
I therefore welcome the new agreement and hope that, after it comes into force, no conflict of any kind will arise between the EU or its Member States and Morocco.
The 'alternative' model being proposed to us fits into the logic promoted within the World Trade Organisation which, in search of supposed efficiency, seeks to bypass national sovereignty, seeks to bypass the resolution of disputes through respect for each country's particularities, and seeks to bypass their right to defend their interests and those of their peoples.
Resolving disputes by diplomatic means guarantees equality of treatment between countries.
This mechanism, by contrast, subverts this principle, encouraging the movement of capital and putting economic power before political power and the interests of capital before the interests of countries and their peoples.
Our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified because it results from the conclusion of a free trade agreement with Morocco, a country that continues to occupy Western Sahara, and to make use of and profit from resources that do not belong to it: it is violating international law and denying the Sahrawi people their right to self-determination.
However, the Commission is now proposing an 'alternative' model that fits into the logic promoted within the World Trade Organisation which, in search of supposed efficiency, seeks to bypass national sovereignty, seeks to bypass the resolution of disputes through respect for each country's particularities, and seeks to bypass their right to defend their interests and those of their peoples.
Resolving disputes by diplomatic means guarantees equality of treatment between countries.
This mechanism, by contrast, subverts this principle, encouraging the movement of capital and putting economic power before political power and the interests of capital before the interests of countries and their peoples.
Our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified because it results from the conclusion of a free trade agreement with Morocco, a country that continues to occupy Western Sahara, and to make use of and profit from resources that do not belong to it: it is violating the Sahrawi people's rights and denying their right to self-determination.
I shall vote against.
The past shows us that diplomacy has not managed to be efficient in resolving a number of existing disputes.
I therefore welcome the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism, which should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits.
Moreover, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations, and represents a further step towards the setting up and the proper functioning of the EU-Morocco Free Trade Area.
The liberalisation agreement between the EU and Morocco should be an emblem for the development, the stability and the economic recovery of the entire North African region.
The Union cannot and must not lose the opportunity to play a part in creating a renewed trade policy, able to assist those countries which have been overwhelmed by social and political turmoil with dramatic consequences for national economies and, consequently, our investments in those areas.
With today's vote on creating a standard mechanism for appropriate and efficient dispute resolution, we have a greater guarantee in support of European investments in Morocco, investments which are key to economic wellbeing in the entire region, covering almost all sectors.
Today's vote also highlights the Union's desire to avoid having a negative effect on the economies and end consumers on both sides of the Mediterranean by opting for protectionist policies which continue to prioritise special interests, delaying the ratification of agreements which are fundamental to rebalancing and stabilising the economic choices of an area that is beginning to be of interest to our trade competitors like China and the countries of the Middle East.
With this report, the European Parliament is approving the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism which should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits in disputes resulting from Euro-Mediterranean agreements between the EU and Morocco.
Dispute resolution through diplomacy was not effective and led to situations in which certain disputes remained unresolved, as they could easily be blocked by the 'injuring' party.
Delays that occur in dispute resolution have a negative impact on companies and end consumers on both sides of the Mediterranean.
The model for the proposed mechanism is the dispute settlement mechanisms included in the latest agreements concluded by the European Union and the World Trade Organisation's Understanding on Rules and Procedures governing the Settlement of Disputes.
I voted in favour of concluding this agreement between the EU and the Kingdom of Morocco, whose goal is establishing a mechanism for settling disputes under the trade provisions of the Euro-Mediterranean agreements.
In practice, this approach is not effective and has led to situations where disputes remained unresolved or were blocked.
The Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with its partners from the Mediterranean in 2006 with a view to negotiating a proper dispute settlement mechanism.
A draft agreement was initialled with Morocco at the Euro-Mediterranean Trade Ministerial conference in Brussels on 9 December 2009, and confirmed during the EU-Morocco Summit on 7 March 2010.
The creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is welcomed, as it should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits.
I voted for this resolution because an effective mechanism needs to be established for settling trade disputes between the European Union and the Arab Republic of Egypt.
The proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms from the most recent agreements concluded by the European Union, which comply with the World Trade Organisation's dispute settlement rules and procedures.
This mechanism will support the functioning of the Euromed Free Trade Area, but will mainly bring stability to bilateral trade relations between the European Union and the Arab Republic of Egypt.
In the light of what is happening in some North African countries, there is no doubt that the path towards economic and political stability in those territories passes through, among other things, well-functioning free trade agreements in the Mediterranean.
All improvements to the Euro-Mediterranean agreements have an important impact on the countries' economic and political stability, contributing to the innumerable social and democratic gains that result from them.
I therefore accept the need for a mechanism that will enable the application of resources in a simple and efficient way, so I agree with the draft Council decision on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Union and the Arab Republic of Egypt establishing a Dispute Settlement Mechanism.
Amongst those is foreign relations, specifically with the European Union, which is its partner in a Euro-Mediterranean agreement.
This recommendation is based on a draft Council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the European Union and the People's Republic of Egypt, whose goal is to implement a dispute settlement mechanism.
In general, resolving trade conflicts between countries using diplomatic means has not always had the desired effect.
I am voting for this draft legislative resolution of the European Parliament as I am aware that it will significantly improve relations between the states in terms of free trade and contribute to the political and economic stability of this region.
I therefore welcome the new agreement and hope that, after it comes into force, no conflict of any kind will arise between the EU or its Member States and the Arab Republic of Egypt.
The 'alternative' model being proposed to us fits into the logic promoted within the World Trade Organisation which, in search of supposed efficiency, seeks to bypass national sovereignty, seeks to bypass the resolution of disputes through respect for each country's particularities, and seeks to bypass their right to defend their interests and those of their peoples.
Resolving disputes by diplomatic means guarantees equality of treatment between countries.
This mechanism, by contrast, subverts this principle, encouraging the movement of capital and putting economic power before political power and the interests of capital before the interests of countries and their peoples.
The 'alternative' model being proposed to us fits into the logic promoted within the World Trade Organisation which, in search of supposed efficiency, seeks to bypass national sovereignty, seeks to bypass the resolution of disputes through respect for each country's particularities, and seeks to bypass their right to defend their interests and those of their peoples.
Resolving disputes by diplomatic means guarantees equality of treatment between countries.
This mechanism, by contrast, subverts this principle, encouraging the movement of capital and putting economic power before political power and the interests of capital before the interests of countries and their peoples.
in writing. - Notwithstanding the uncertain situation in Egypt, I think Parliament is right to press ahead with the approval of this agreement which should make life easier for businesses without making any political comment on the current Egyptian Government.
The past shows us that diplomacy has not managed to be efficient in resolving a number of existing disputes.
I therefore welcome the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism, which should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits.
Moreover, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations, and represents a further step towards the setting up and the proper functioning of the EU-Egypt Free Trade Area.
in writing. - I voted against this report as I have serious concerns in relation to the EU's economic and political approach towards the countries that are covered by the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement.
A continuation of the free trade doctrine in the interest of European big business and the rich elites mean more of the same and therefore needs to be rejected.
With this report, the European Parliament is approving the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism which should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits in disputes resulting from Euro-Mediterranean agreements between the EU and the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Dispute resolution through diplomacy was not effective and led to situations in which certain disputes remained unresolved, as they could easily be blocked by the 'injuring' party.
Delays that occur in dispute resolution have a negative impact on companies and end consumers on both sides of the Mediterranean.
The model for the proposed mechanism is the dispute resolution mechanisms included in the latest agreements concluded by the EU and the World Trade Organisation's Understanding on Rules and Procedures governing the Settlement of Disputes.
I voted in favour of concluding this EU-Egypt agreement whose goal is establishing a mechanism for settling disputes under the trade provisions of the Euro-Mediterranean agreements.
In practice, this approach is not effective and has led to situations where disputes remained unresolved or were blocked.
I am voting for this recommendation and welcome the creation of a dispute settlement mechanism, which should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits.
I also agree with the rapporteur's position that upgrades to the Euro-Mediterranean free trade agreements can contribute to economic and political stability in this region that is key to consolidating a single area of peace.
Furthermore, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations and could represent a further step towards the setting up and the proper functioning of the Euromed free trade area.
I am voting in favour of this resolution because I consider it essential that the EU provide a suitable mechanism for resolving disputes arising from the implementation of Euro-Mediterranean agreements.
In 2006, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with partners in the Mediterranean region and only in 2009 was that agreement signed.
The creation of a standard method for resolving disputes should ultimately introduce simplified and effective resolution procedures within specific time limits.
I agree with the opinion of the rapporteur who considers it essential that revisions of the Euromed free trade agreements be made in order to contribute to economic and political stability in this region and to consolidate an area of peace and development.
I am voting for this report, and would stress that it is an important step in the pursuit of negotiations between the EU and Ukraine towards establishing a path that may enable its full accession to the EU in the future.
I voted in favour of this report.
With the implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy, partner countries are gradually being given the opportunity to participate in certain Union programmes and agency activities.
This is one of many measures aimed at promoting reforms, modernisation and transition in countries neighbouring the European Union.
In June 2007, the Council of the European Union once again stressed the huge importance of the European Neighbourhood Policy, and therefore this protocol will create the conditions for Ukraine to participate in important EU programmes and benefit from EU best practices contributing to the development of democratic processes.
The European Union will gain a sound, stable, democratic partner at its eastern border, while Ukraine's citizens will gain a somewhat clearer European perspective.
I consider supporting the fledgling democracy in Ukraine to be one of our most important obligations.
I support, therefore, acceleration of negotiations concerning the free trade zone, and the broadest possible participation of Ukraine in Union programmes.
I voted in favour of the resolution, and in so doing expressed my consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine.
This protocol contains the framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of Ukraine in Union programmes.
In my view, Ukraine is making the necessary efforts, and I support the conclusion of this agreement.
I voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the consent of the European Parliament to the draft Council decision, on the basis of which there will be a supplementary protocol to the EU-Ukraine Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
On the basis of this protocol, Ukraine will be given the opportunity to participate in EU programmes concerning businesses and entrepreneurship, energy and information and communication technologies.
According to this agreement, Ukraine will have to make a financial contribution to the EU's general budget depending on the programmes it wishes to participate in, and the EU will, in turn, guarantee that these programmes are controlled and audited by the EU institutions.
On 18 June 2007, the Council issued guidelines to the Commission on negotiating framework agreements with Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Georgia, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Moldova, Morocco, the Palestinian Authority, Tunisia and Ukraine on the general principles governing these countries' participation in EU programmes.
I believe that the conclusion of the aforementioned agreement is positive, because of the need to stipulate clearly the framework in which Ukraine will participate in European programmes, thereby contributing to improving its relations with the Union.
As a result of this approach, the Commission started negotiating framework agreements with neighbouring countries, including Ukraine, whose documentation is complete and ready to be submitted for the European Parliament's approval, under the terms of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
I am voting for this Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, on the general principles for the participation of Ukraine in Union programmes, and I welcome it because it is another step in pursuing the objectives that guided the creation of the common market.
Mention is made of programmes, but we have not been told which programmes Ukraine will be able to participate in, what form such participation will take, or what the financial conditions and implications of this will be.
We believe that the establishment of agreements with objectives such as those announced should be based on respect for the sovereignty of countries and their peoples, on mutual interest, on reciprocity, and on cooperation, taking into account each country's particularities; that they should evaluate what each may bring to the agreement from the economic, social and cultural points of view.
Mention is made of programmes, but we have not been told which programmes Ukraine will be able to participate in, what form such participation will take, or what the financial implications of this will be.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the consent of the European Parliament to the draft Council decision, on the basis of which there will be a supplementary protocol to the EU-Ukraine Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
Ukraine will be given the opportunity to participate in EU programmes concerning businesses and entrepreneurship, energy and information and communication technologies.
Ukraine will have to make a financial contribution to the EU's general budget depending on the programmes it wishes to participate in, and the EU will, in turn, guarantee that these programmes are controlled and audited by the EU institutions.
This partnership and cooperation policy will give Ukraine more opportunities for the convergence of its policies with policies pursued by the EU in these areas.
in writing. - I voted for this technical report giving approval for the Ukraine to participate in European Union programmes.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the draft resolution on the Council's decision on a framework agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the general principles concerning this country's participation in Union programmes.
Furthermore, Ukraine will be able to request assistance from the Union to participate in a particular programme in accordance with the general provisions on setting up a European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument or based on any other similar regulation which provides for external assistance.
We must develop these ties in a pragmatic way so that citizens benefit directly from our political decisions.
This protocol will contribute to the creation of a clear framework for Ukraine's participation in the various European programmes so that in the future, EU-Ukraine relations do not have the highs and lows they have had to endure hitherto.
The participation of Ukraine in European Union programmes represents an important step both for Ukraine and for the EU.
The geographical position of Ukraine is an important factor and also represents a major advantage for the EU, because it will enable the EU to improve its contacts with other Eastern European states.
I voted in favour of the recommendation to allow Ukraine to participate in current EU programmes and those established in the future, in areas such as enterprise, energy, technologies and communications.
In exchange for its financial contribution to programmes, Ukraine will have the right to participate as an observer in committees coordinating EU programmes.
Relations between the European Union and Ukraine have been up and down.
On 18 June 2007, the Council mandated the Commission to negotiate framework agreements with Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Georgia, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Moldova, Morocco, the Palestinian Authority, Tunisia and Ukraine on the general principles governing these countries' participation in EU programmes.
It is essential to establish a clear and precise legal framework for Ukraine's participation in European programmes, thereby contributing to improving its relations with the Union.
I therefore voted for the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the general principles for the participation of Ukraine in Union programmes.
in writing. - Having regard to the draft Council decision (13604/2010), having regard to the draft protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, concluded on 14 June 1994, on a framework agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the general principles for the participation of Ukraine in Union programmes (13962/2010), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the Council in accordance with Articles 114, 168, 169, 172, 173(3), 188 and 192 and Article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (C7-0401/2010), having regard to Rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and having regard to the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we consent to conclusion of the protocol.
Participation in EU programmes and agencies by countries which are included in the Neighbourhood Policy is one of the most specific forms of those countries' cooperation with the Union.
With a population of 46 million, Ukraine needs stability in the region.
It is important for EU Member States, in particular, Lithuania, to actively seek closer cooperation with their Eastern neighbours, even if some differences remain.
Liberalising the movement of people is also crucial.
It is important for the issue of visa-free travel to be the number one priority.
I am voting for this report, since it is in the interests of the affected regions to establish a legal basis for trade between the EU and Greenland, in this case, coming under the umbrella of the rules of the EU's internal market.
In 2010, the Commission submitted to the Council a proposal for EU rules on the importation of fishery products, using Article 203 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union as its legal basis.
I agree with the interpretation that this activity should be regulated on the legislative basis of Article 43, in conjunction with the provisions of Article 204, thus allowing revisions to be made through the ordinary legislative procedure.
In 2007 alone, almost 87% of fishery products exported from Greenland came to the EU.
For this reason, establishing general rules for trade and the importation of fishery products originating from Greenland cannot be left entirely to the Commission and the Council because this would contradict the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I voted for the report on imports from Greenland of fishery products, which aims to apply internal market rules to these imports once Greenland undertakes to transpose European legislation, notably, legislation on animal health and food safety.
The Member States should authorise the importing of products originating in Greenland, in line with Union legislation on internal trade.
The importing of products to the Union will be subject to a number of conditions, including the effective transposition and application of applicable rules established in Union legislation regarding animal health and food safety.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that the proposed text should be adopted using the ordinary legislative procedure, and that Parliament should exercise its legislative rights in similar cases in the future.
Exports of fishery products from Greenland represent around 82% of its total exports, totalling EUR 255 million in 2007.
The Committee on Legal Affairs adopted unanimously an opinion supporting the request that Articles 43(2) and 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and the Sole Article of the Protocol (No 34) on Special Arrangements for Greenland must form the legal basis for the proposed legislative text, instead of the legal basis chosen by the Commission: that is, Article 203 of the TFEU.
Therefore, given that it is a legal issue that is in question and not the content of the proposal for a resolution, and given the consensus obtained, I agree with its adoption.
The great debate surrounding this report is a side issue to its motivation.
Specifically, the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries expressed its disagreement with the legal basis chosen by the Commission for tabling this proposal: Article 203 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which provides for the Council examining 'provisions as regards the detailed rules and the procedure for the association of the countries and territories with the Union' after consulting the European Parliament.
The Committee on Fisheries believed that Articles 43(2) - referring to the ordinary legislative procedure, or colegislation - and 204 of the TFEU should be adopted as its legal basis, along with the Sole Article of the Protocol (No 34) on Special Arrangements for Greenland.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Ms Fraga's report, which allows Greenland to export fishery products to the EU despite not being a member.
I voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a Council decision laying down rules for imports into the European Union from Greenland of fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, echinoderms, tunicates, marine gastropods and by-products thereof.
Greenland's exports of fishery products, approximately 82% of its total exports, totalled EUR 255 million in 2007, the largest part of which (87%) were directed to the EU, notably (97%) to Denmark.
This decision includes an amendment to the legal framework, from a Council decision to a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council.
in writing. - (DE) The trade in fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, echinoderms, tunicates, marine gastropods and their by-products between Greenland and the European Union in accordance with the rules laid down in Union legislation and other conditions is perfectly acceptable.
Commercial relations between the EU and Greenland have been significant in nature for some years.
Indeed, since 2007, Greenland has exported 82% of its fishery products, of which 87% comes to the European market.
We can therefore say that this is an important resource for Greenland, in addition to what Europe offers in terms of financial support in exchange for maintaining their fishing rights in Greenland's waters.
On 26 April 2010, the European Parliament asked the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion so as to determine a legal basis on which to establish agreements with Greenland.
The Committee on Legal Affairs recently supported Parliament and confirmed that the legal basis of the agreements can be found, as upheld, in Article 43(2) and in Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
in writing. - I voted for this proposal which lays down rules regarding imports into the EU from Greenland of fishery products and other marine products.
Greenland and the EU intend to enter into a sanitary arrangement on these products, with the objective being that Greenland can trade these commodities with the EU on the basis of internal market rules, provided that Greenland transposes EU sanitary and animal health rules on fishery products.
With the laying down of rules on EU-Greenland trade in fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, echinoderms, tunicates, marine gastropods and their by-products, imports from Greenland are in compliance with EU legislation.
Imports of products to the Union have to be subject to applicable rules established in Union legislation regarding the issues of animal health and food safety.
in writing. - It is known that Greenland and the European Union intend to sign a sanitary arrangement concerning fish and fishery products for human consumption.
I support that arrangement and I voted 'for'.
On 26 April 2010, the European Parliament was consulted on this proposal by the Council under the consultation procedure provided for in Article 203 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Committee on Fisheries and Parliament's legal service expressed serious doubts as to the Commission's choice of Article 203 of the TFEU as the legal basis, suggesting instead as its correct legal basis Articles 43(2) and 204 of the TFEU and the Sole Article of the Protocol (No 34) on Special Arrangements for Greenland.
in writing. - In favour.
On 26 April 2010, the European Parliament was consulted on this proposal by the Council under the consultation procedure provided for in Article 203 TFEU.
At its meeting of 28 October 2010, the Committee on Legal Affairs adopted unanimously an opinion entirely supporting the request that Articles 43(2) and 204 TFEU and the Sole Article of the Protocol (No 34) on Special Arrangements for Greenland form the legal basis for the proposed legislative act.
At the moment, a special agreement exists between the EU and Greenland by which the European Union maintains its fishing rights in the waters of Greenland in exchange for financial support.
On 26 April 2010, the Committee on Fisheries and the Legal Service of the European Parliament expressed serious doubts about the legal basis chosen by the Commission to draw up the agreement.
I agree with the position set out in this report, taking into account the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, and because this is, therefore, a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
Work on the creation of a common European asylum system (CEAS) started immediately after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam in May 1999, but despite the efforts made over the last ten years to achieve harmonisation in the asylum sector, major discrepancies still remain between national provisions and the way they are applied.
I agree with the opinion that in whichever Member State applicants lodge an asylum request, they must enjoy a high standard of treatment that is equivalent throughout the Union.
Legislative harmonisation alone in this area is therefore insufficient and must be backed up by enhanced practical cooperation among the Member States.
It is clear that in order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to adopt reforms without delay, so that people seeking asylum in EU Member States are provided with effective protection.
By voting in favour of this resolution, we MEPs are contributing to the creation of a fair and effective European asylum policy.
I think that the proposals are contradictory.
On the one hand, their aim is to achieve greater harmonisation, improve international protection standards and enhance the quality and efficiency of asylum procedures.
The European Union's key objective in the area of asylum entails establishing a common area of protection and solidarity by 2012 based on a common asylum procedure.
Despite the efforts made over the last ten years to achieve harmonisation in the asylum sector, major discrepancies still remain between national provisions and the way they are applied.
Thus, only by improving and harmonising the procedures and related guarantees will it be possible to achieve a common asylum system.
Furthermore, a fundamental revision of the Procedures Directive is vital, so as to provide an accessible, fair and effective procedure, as much in the interests of asylum seekers as in those of the Member States.
I would like to stress that the Commission's new revised proposal for this directive may genuinely help to achieve greater harmonisation, improve international protection standards and enhance the quality and efficiency of asylum procedures.
In spite of the efforts made over the last 10 years to achieve harmonisation in the asylum sector, major discrepancies still remain between national provisions and in the way they are applied.
While legislative harmonisation will not suffice to reduce these differences and will need to be supplemented by practical cooperation among Member States, adopting a sound European legal framework is an absolute prerequisite for the Union to implement a common European asylum system in an adequate and effective manner, just as it has repeatedly pledged to do so.
The Commission's proposal will rectify the mistakes of the past, when the previous approach to asylum encouraged a series of shortcomings regarding procedural guarantees for asylum seekers.
I voted in favour of this resolution to harmonise the various national systems while better protecting applicants' rights and improving the quality of procedures.
This resolution provides legal assistance right from the start of the procedure while taking better account of the specificity of vulnerable applicants such as unaccompanied minors.
However, I regret that for the vote in plenary, the European right targeted the strengthening of accelerated procedures based on the notion that asylum seekers are all potential fraudsters.
I regret that these amendments were adopted, because this perspective on asylum is out of all proportion.
in writing. - As a UKIP MEP, I am against any kind of EU interference in the UK system of asylum and in any related directive which would force EU rules on the UK.
I therefore voted against the amended proposal and against the legislative resolution.
The great objective is that, irrespective of the Member State in which applicants lodge an asylum request, they must enjoy a high standard of treatment that is equivalent throughout the Union.
I would congratulate the rapporteur on her work and commitment, but I regret that some of her proposals went a little too far, which ended up making agreement with the Council impossible on this initiative that appears so urgently needed so as to increase the efficiency of the asylum process and prevent abuses.
The report by Mrs Guillaume is an important step towards the revision of EU rules on asylum and protection for applicants for 2012.
With this text, we are calling on the European Commission to include in the proposed revision the right to free legal advice from the start of the procedure; better consideration of vulnerable applicants, such as unaccompanied minors; and a framework for the time limit for appeals.
My one regret, however, is that the European right adopted a tightening of accelerated procedures based on the notion that asylum seekers are primarily potential fraudsters, limiting their rights.
However, the adoption of Mrs Guillaume's report sends a clear signal to the Council and Commission that they need to work to guarantee all asylum seekers in Europe decent, fair conditions and procedures.
I voted in favour of this report because I argue that these measures contribute to the creation of a common European asylum system that is fair and efficient.
These measures have a direct impact on those seeking protection, as well as on the European Union's ability to develop and create a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
The European Union and the Member States have been working towards implementing a common European asylum system for a long time.
The Commission has, however, been tabling proposals to Parliament and the Council aimed at providing suitable solutions to the problems that have been detected.
The recasting of the Procedures Directive, proposed by the Commission on 21 October 2009, is part of this improvement process.
Work on the creation of a common European asylum system started immediately after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1999.
In December 2005, with the objective of harmonising the Member States' legal procedures, Council Directive 2005/85/EC on asylum procedures was adopted, laying down the rules for granting and withdrawing 'refugee status'.
The recent social and political upheaval in a number of countries, specifically in North Africa and the Middle East, have brought issues relating to asylum applications in the European Union onto the agenda.
I therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal, which has ended up with a Manichaean interpretation of this problem, acknowledging that the right to asylum is a fundamental right and must be treated fairly and equitably by the Member States.
The proposal for a directive on minimum standards on procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing international protection follows the same lines as the creation of a common European asylum system.
Nevertheless, it should be understood that the progress of this legal 'harmonisation' goes hand-in-hand with overall foreign policy followed by the European Union, and its hypocritical positions on immigration and aid for refugees.
The situation in Lampedusa, where there are thousands of refugees without adequate protection, is a clear demonstration of this, not to mention the hundreds or thousands who have been dying in boats crossing the Mediterranean, as has just happened again, disgracefully.
We would also stress the fact that this proposal for a directive includes aspects that will end up restricting the right to asylum and applying conditions to it, above all, limiting each Member State's sovereign right to make its own choices and decide on its own asylum procedures.
The proposal for a directive being voted on in the European Parliament today on minimum standards on procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing international protection follows the same lines as the creation of a common European asylum system.
Nevertheless, it should be understood that the progress of this legal 'harmonisation' goes hand-in-hand with overall foreign policy followed by the European Union, and its hypocritical positions on immigration and aid for refugees, such as the situation in Lampedusa, where there are thousands of refugees without adequate protection, not to mention the hundreds or thousands who have been dying in boats crossing the Mediterranean.
We would also stress the fact that this proposal for a directive includes aspects that will end up restricting access to the right to asylum and applying conditions to it, above all, as regards each Member State's sovereign right to make its own choices and decide on its own asylum procedures.
Hence, our critical position as regards this report.
International protection is supposed to enable people who are truly persecuted in their own country to seek refuge under better circumstances.
However, as it is, and although some amendments have helped to improve it, the report by Mrs Guillaume is a real incentive for people to abuse this process, clogging up the relevant services and depriving those who really need their case to be reviewed quickly.
Applications for international protection cannot and should not be a means of circumventing restrictive measures against unwanted economic migration.
in writing. - With reference to the Guillaume report, although, in principle, this represents a significant step towards the realisation of a common asylum policy system for Europe, I voted against the group on a number of clauses as I felt that they did not reflect realistically the complexities and problems faced by my country, Malta, which is a regular recipient of migrants.
Having said that, however, when it came to the final vote, I voted in favour of the whole report which ultimately contained a number of very good clauses addressing Member States' needs and preoccupations.
On Wednesday, 6 April 2011, the European Parliament adopted the report on the so-called Asylum Procedures Directive.
This vote represents an important step towards creating a genuine European policy on asylum, which we have long requested.
Furthermore, this adoption is a clear sign that the EU needs a common European asylum system (CEAS) by 2012, especially since recent events in the Southern Mediterranean and the recent migration flows from North Africa have clearly proved the limitations of the current European system.
There is an urgent need to revise the EU directives for a credible and efficient system.
Specifically, it is my firm belief that the provisions relating to the accelerated procedure and the rejection of manifestly unfounded applications should not apply to unaccompanied minors or asylum seekers with special needs, so I voted in favour of those amendments that specified otherwise.
We must work harder than ever to establish a genuine common European asylum system (CEAS) for 2012 by better protecting applicants' rights and improving the quality of procedures.
My report goes in that direction, in particular, by including the right to free legal advice from the start of the procedure; better consideration of vulnerable applicants, such as unaccompanied minors; and a framework for the time limit for appeals.
I regret that the European right only targeted the tightening of accelerated procedures based on the notion that asylum seekers are almost all potential fraudsters, because this perspective on asylum is out of all proportion.
in writing. - The Guillaume report covers important areas of law and emphasises the need for human rights to be fully respected in relation to people seeking asylum.
However, the policies which have been implemented by successive UK governments have been quite inhumane.
I voted in favour of this document because I believe that we should seize this opportunity to develop a common European asylum system that is fair and efficient.
Asylum policies have a direct impact on those seeking protection, as well as on the European Union's ability to develop and create a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
The proposal referred to Parliament for a directive regarding the possible provision of a unified procedure for the 27 States of the Union in granting the right of asylum is an important step, but the delicacy of the issue requires careful and thorough reflection.
Another goal is to provide a high degree of protection for asylum seekers, ensuring a rapid verdict in the first instance, free legal assistance and permission to stay in the country until the final ruling.
Notwithstanding the good intentions, I voted against this draft directive as it is imprecise on some technical and procedural aspects and some of the definitions are ambiguous.
For these reasons, I decided not to support this version of the text as I do not agree with it totally.
in writing. - (FR) As part of its policy plan on asylum, the European Union aims to create a common European asylum system.
The report on the granting and withdrawing of international protection will reform the system that exists through Directive 2005/85/EC.
The demographic pressures on Europe today require us to consider these issues with increased vigilance.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The first days when refugees arrive in Europe are crucial in determining their status and European countries must, by 2012, improve their asylum procedures at that very first stage, according to the report.
Notably, the adopted report calls on EU countries to enhance the minimum procedural safeguards, particularly as regards the right to free legal assistance, the right to information, and the right to personal interview; to give special attention to vulnerable applicants, like children; and the adoption, in codecision with the European Parliament, of a common list of safe third countries.
I voted against the report by Mrs Guillaume because it establishes criteria for the harmonisation of asylum procedures that are unrealistic in relation to those procedures currently in force in our Member States.
Parliament's vote today clearly shows the unease that is felt in this House, of which half rejected this demagogic approach, preferring a more responsible approach advocating the adoption of asylum systems that are effective and workable in practice.
All UN Member States have an obligation to protect refugees and asylum seekers.
The EU gets away with ignoring this law by requiring Member States with EU borders to hold refugees and asylum seekers in camps to await a decision that is even more uncertain, given that suspicion is the norm, accelerated procedures have been maintained, and the number of officials in charge of these cases has been reduced.
There is still a long way to go before true harmonisation will have taken place, but we have to be conscious that only by improving and harmonising the procedures and related guarantees will it be possible to achieve a common system.
With this in mind, a fundamental revision of the Procedures Directive is absolutely vital, so as to provide an accessible, fair and effective procedure, as much in the interests of asylum seekers as in those of the Member States.
in writing. - If the aim of the resolution is to create an accessible, honest and efficient procedure for granting asylum on the territory of the European Union, in that case, people looking for protection will be granted standard European Union guarantees and EU Member States will be able to distinguish asylum seekers from other migrants.
In the efforts to create a common European asylum system, the focus is on the rights of asylum seekers.
However, this ignores the fact that the majority of these people are not genuine asylum seekers but economic migrants, who have no right to asylum under the Geneva Convention and who have taken up the authorities' time by providing incorrect information and employing a range of delaying tactics, giving rise to costs of billions of euro.
I voted in favour of this proposal because we must make every effort to ensure that we achieve a European asylum system that is even more efficient and has a positive impact on people.
Asylum policies are very important as they have a huge impact on the European Union's ability to develop and create a common area of freedom, security and justice.
Particular attention must be paid to vulnerable asylum applicants.
Such an opportunity is very important and necessary because it provides Member States with increased opportunities to stop terrorist networks from operating and to take appropriate preventive measures.
In fact, the discrepancies still remaining between national provisions and in the way they are applied were totally incompatible with a CEAS, and are the reason for these amendments.
I voted for this report because I think that only improving and harmonising the procedures and related guarantees will enable the construction of a common system.
I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague and friend, Mrs Guillaume, on procedures for granting and withdrawing asylum in Europe.
This text marks a major step forward in establishing a common European asylum system (CEAS) by 2012, thereby putting an end to the intolerable situation whereby, depending on the European country in which an asylum seeker applies for protection, his or her chances of being recognised as a refugee vary between 1% and 65%.
Parliament has therefore spoken out in favour of greater justice and greater efficiency in the processing of asylum procedures.
The ball is now in the court of those Member States that have yet to decide on our proposals.
I am particularly happy that our centre-right colleagues agreed on the need for special protection, regardless of their general position on asylum.
Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people fleeing countries such as Iraq, Uganda, Honduras or Indonesia must receive particular protection taking into account cultural sensitivity.
This is a major step towards fully complying with our engagements under international asylum law.
The European Parliament is showing that asylum rules need updating to reflect reality: 76 countries criminalise homosexual acts and 7 foresee the death penalty (maybe 8 soon with Uganda).
I regret that other progressive provisions did not pass, but today's text will ultimately bring more fairness for LGBT asylum seekers.
Asylum rules will effectively be amended once EU governments examine the text and conclude an agreement with the European Parliament.
After years of debate and having signed the Treaty of Lisbon, the Committee has submitted to Parliament the first draft for a common asylum procedure between Member States.
The objective is to establish by 2012 a common area of security and solidarity based on harmonised asylum policies between Member States, despite the persistent differences between national regulations.
In fact, these national differences are inconsistent with a common European asylum system and constitute an obstacle to its realisation.
It is important that we work towards a gradual improvement and harmonisation of procedures and effective guarantees of asylum, in order to implement a common European system.
I hope that in the context of this review, we ensure an accessible, equitable and effective procedure, in the interests of both asylum seekers and the need for protection for Member States.
We have expressed such convinced opposition to the Parliamentary directive on the unified asylum procedure because, if implemented, it would, in effect, override the sovereignty of Member States.
Bear in mind that all these benefits will be paid for by European taxpayers and will be granted not only to refugees but to all asylum seekers and, consequently, to any illegal or clandestine immigrant who requests it.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted against the report.
It concerns the implementation of a well-organised, common and rapid asylum procedure in Europe based on uniform legal standards.
However, the amendments tabled by the greens and the socialists will ensure that foreigners can live in the EU with almost no means available for exercising control over them.
As such, it is important that statistics for developing more effective tourism policies at European, national, regional and local level be as reliable as possible, since they are instruments for supporting the decision-making process in companies and in the private sector.
Tourism statistics play a major role in the development of more effective tourism policies at European, national, regional and local levels.
However, these statistics are not only used to monitor tourism-specific policies, but also play a key role in the context of regional policy and sustainable development.
I think that the European Union tourism sector needs to be strengthened through coordinated action at EU level which will complement Member States' initiatives.
This new common framework for systematically generating European statistics on tourism must be established by the Member States collecting, compiling, processing and transmitting harmonised statistics on supply and demand.
I voted for this report as tourism is an important economic activity in the European Union, contributing to higher employment and economic growth.
It is to Europe that most of the world's tourists come: some 370 million international tourists visiting annually.
About 7 million overseas tourists visit Ireland every year.
With some 1.8 million businesses, primarily SMEs, the European tourism industry employs approximately 5.2% of the total workforce (approximately 9.7 million jobs).
I support the Commission's aim to define a new policy framework for tourism in Europe, drawing on the new competences introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The tourism sector faces major challenges, such as increasing global competition, demographic trends, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist movements and the increasing use by customers of new information and communication technologies.
I believe that it is necessary to strengthen the EU tourism sector by coordinated action at EU level that complements Member States' initiatives.
Tourism is an important sector of the European economy, with around 1.8 million companies, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, employing approximately 9.7 million workers.
It is estimated that the tourism industry produces more than 5% of the EU's Gross Domestic Product.
With the tabling of Communication COM(2010)352, the Commission aims to define a new policy framework for tourism in Europe, seeking to reinforce the sector through coordinated action at EU level that complements the Member States' initiatives.
Therefore, in order for the new political framework to be successful, decisions must be taken, founded and based on reliable and comparable statistical data.
This report, which deserved my support, recognises the important role of statistics for developing better tourism policies at European, national, regional and local level, since they represent useful instruments for supporting the decision-making process.
It also supports the establishment of a common legislative framework for the systematic production of European statistics on tourism by means of the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the Member States of harmonised European statistics on tourism supply and demand.
Statistics plays an important role in the development of more effective tourism policies and in making business decisions.
I support the text because, on the one hand, the changes that have taken place in the tourism industry in recent years have created the need to update the legal framework for European statistics on tourism.
The Simpson report, and the regulation to which it refers, propose the establishment of a common framework for the collection and distribution of European statistics on tourism through data gathering and processing, to be carried out by individual Member States with harmonised statistics on demand and supply in tourism using aggregated tables which are then transmitted electronically to the European Commission (Eurostat).
Despite the commendable work of the rapporteur, I cannot vote in favour of the report because it does not change the quantity of work and data collection set out in the regulation.
I voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to improve European tourism policies, particularly given the fact that the European tourism sector has recently had to endure a difficult economic situation.
The aim of this proposal for a regulation is to update and optimise the legal framework for European statistics on tourism, but there is concern that the proposal does not provide for the introduction of tourism satellite accounts (TSAs).
These TSAs are crucial to progressively developing integrated systems of tourism statistics and to better understanding the true value of tourism, as well as its effects on jobs and the economy.
Furthermore, with a view to enhancing the knowledge base for the development and growth of tourism, the Commission should draw up a programme of pilot studies on tourism.
European Union remains the world's number one tourist destination, with 40% of arrivals worldwide in 2008.
The EU aims to define a new policy framework for tourism, with the objective of reinforcing the sector so as to address the great challenges, such as climate change, demographic trends and globalisation, through coordinated action at EU level that complements the Member States' initiatives.
Compiling data on tourism enables better knowledge of the volume represented by this sector, of its characteristics, of the profile of the tourists and of the various travel patterns, which contributes, not just to the proper formulation of policies for the sector, but also to better understanding of its socio-economic implications.
At the same time, however, I am in favour of the amendments to the regulation of Parliament, especially with regard to, on the one hand, the need to introduce harmonised statistics that reflect the purely social aspects of tourism and, on the other, the position opposing the adoption of actions delegated by the Commission on key issues and for an indefinite period.
Finally, I am very interested in the proposal to introduce the voluntary collection of tourism statistics regarding the habits of people with disabilities or restricted mobility and the subsequent establishment of pilot projects in order to improve such persons' participation in tourism.
I think that one such opportunity is encouraging the participation not only of the elderly, but also of young people, families living in difficult circumstances and people with reduced mobility in the social tourism programmes developed by the Union.
However, adequate statistics are required to do this, compiled using common collection methods, aimed at developing programmes targeted at these groups of tourists in every EU Member State.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the European statistics on tourism report today.
By providing statistical data, the EU will be in a better position to help the tourism industry, including SMEs, and to improve the overall marketing of Europe as a highly desirable tourist destination.
The distinction between internal and national tourism is drawn in the report.
Internal tourism covers the capacity of tourist accommodation establishments, and national tourism covers participation in tourism, including excursions.
I voted for this report because I believe that tourism statistics contribute to the development of more effective policy and represent a useful tool for supporting the decision-making processes of companies and the private sector.
According to the report's figures, Europe remains the world's number one tourist destination, and tourism is the third largest socio-economic activity in the EU, with some 1.8 million businesses, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, 9.7 million jobs and production equivalent to 5% of EU Gross Domestic Product.
For this very reason, it is an activity that should be properly monitored, regulated and supported, particularly in the specific context of the economic recovery and the need to increase production of saleable goods.
While this is the reality for the whole EU, it is especially important for Portugal, which is a country that has, for a long time, been very invested in tourism, as a particularly dynamic economic activity with vast potential for growth.
In this context, and given the importance that a profound and realistic knowledge of the reality of tourism has for developing appropriate policies, the Commission's proposal intended to update and optimise the legal framework for European statistics on tourism that we voted on today is important.
At European level, as well as growing steadily, tourism encompasses 1.8 million businesses, the large majority of these being small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), providing 9.7 million jobs, ranking as the third largest socio-economic activity in the EU, and generating more than 5% of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Moreover, Europe is the top tourist destination in the world, with 40% of all tourist arrivals.
The usefulness of statistical information depends on its comparability in time and space, which entails the adoption of a common set of definitions and classifications.
In the particular case of tourism, this sector includes concepts and definitions that have long been unclear, which has made it difficult to obtain reliable and credible information.
It is therefore necessary to clarify and harmonise criteria and definitions that enable comparable data to be obtained.
The existence of these statistics is of great importance in determining the direct and indirect impact of tourism on the economy, supporting the planning and development of new tourism options, or adapting existing ones.
The proposal included in the report is aimed at improving the timeliness, comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted, as well as the efficiency of the data processing, including improved data evaluation.
It is also aimed at adapting the legal framework so as to reflect the latest changes to the sector with the introduction of new variables, such as tourist movements over a single day.
We therefore voted in favour.
In the particular case of tourism, this sector includes concepts and definitions that have long been unclear, which has made it difficult to obtain reliable and credible information.
It is therefore necessary to clarify and harmonise criteria and definitions that enable comparable data to be obtained.
The existence of these statistics is of great importance in determining the direct and indirect impact of tourism on the economy, supporting the planning and development of new tourism options, or adapting existing ones.
The proposal included in the report is aimed at improving the comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted, as well as the efficiency of the data processing, including improved data evaluation.
It is also aimed at adapting the legal framework so as to reflect the latest changes to the sector with the introduction of new variables, such as tourist movements over a single day.
We therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - My group supported the report on Statistics on Tourism, which updates and modernises the method for collecting European statistics on tourism, particularly in the light of modern trends such as low-cost flights and short-stay holidays.
Politicians need to acknowledge the great importance of the tourism industry to Europe.
Individual Member States realise that more must be done to help this sector, which contributes greatly to economic growth.
Member States are competing with each other, despite being able to share best practice and cooperate on certain issues, such as improving transport links across Europe and other measures enabling easier consumer travel.
In my region, which is home to the German-speaking community in Belgium, tourism is not only an important area of competence, but also a crucial economic factor.
I voted in favour of this document because it is necessary to define a new improved policy framework for tourism in Europe.
Tourism is an important economic activity in the EU with a high potential for contributing to greater employment and economic growth, as well as to playing an important role in socio-economic integration in rural, peripheral and less-developed areas, such as areas rich in industrial heritage.
Statistics in this field are not only used to monitor tourism-specific policies, but also play a role in the wider context of regional policy and sustainable development.
We need to address the main challenges facing the sector such as increasing global competition, demographic trends, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist movements and the increasing use by customers of new information and communication technologies.
There is a need to strengthen the EU tourism sector by coordinated action at EU level that complements Member States' initiatives.
Tourism is an important economic activity that has a positive impact on economic growth and employment in Europe, and therefore it is necessary to update and optimise the legal framework for European statistics on tourism, thereby strengthening the tourism sector at EU level.
I think the proposal for a regulation on European statistics on tourism, being voted on in this House, should be considered of particular interest and also very useful.
The tourism industry is, for Europe, a leading sector of great importance within the community because it occupies an important role in the individual economies of Member States.
The creation of a common framework for the collection and compilation of comparable and comprehensive statistics on European tourism can only be helpful in improving the situation.
I support the proposed regulation because I believe that unified European statistics which are transparent, reliable and objective are an effective way to support this large industry which is of considerable importance for my country.
I voted for this report as I think that we must do our utmost to remain the number one tourist destination in the world.
The development of a sustainable, responsible, high quality tourism sector requires the legal framework for European statistics in this area to be updated and improved.
in writing. - I voted for this report which recognises the major role of statistics in the development of more effective tourism policies at European, national, regional and local levels.
In the same manner, tourism statistics represent a useful tool to support decision making in business and in the private sector.
Therefore, the rapporteur supports the aim of the proposed regulation to establish a common framework for the systematic production of European statistics on tourism by means of the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the Member States of harmonised European statistics on tourism supply and demand.
Furthermore, it is necessary to adapt the legal framework to reflect recent trends in the tourism industry by introducing new variables, for instance, concerning same-day visits.
With around 1.8 million businesses, most of them small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), employing about 5.2% of the total workforce, that is, about 9.7 million jobs, it is estimated that the European tourism industry generates more than 5% of the EU's Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Tourism therefore represents the third largest socio-economic activity in the EU.
Moreover, the EU continues to be the world's top tourist destination, having recorded 370 million tourist arrivals in 2008, or 40% of world tourist arrivals.
in writing. - It goes without saying that tourism possesses a high potential which creates an opportunity to increase employment and economic growth.
Tourism plays an important role in social-economic integration of rural, peripheral and less developed areas which have a rich cultural heritage.
Statistics in the field of tourism are not used only for monitoring of tourism policy but also play an important role in the broader context of regional policy and sustainable development.
Many cities have been wondering for years why their expectations concerning tourism remained unfulfilled after they were chosen to be the European Capital of Culture.
However, the limited availability and comparability of tourism data is also a problem from the point of view of town planning.
Today, the European Parliament adopted an important document on the legal framework for European statistics on tourism.
However, in my opinion, a particularly important provision, supported by the European Parliament, concerns the collection of data regarding people with limited mobility, and its impact on the ability of such people to obtain fully-fledged tourism services.
We constantly discuss improving quality of life for disabled people and we must include tourism in this area.
Only then will we be able to implement tourism policy effectively and protect the rights of consumers.
The report by Mr Simpson on European statistics on tourism is a text that will replace the directive on the matter, which is now 15 years' old.
That is why I voted in favour of the report.
New requirements in the sector, which needs increasingly detailed, up-to-date and comparable data, make it essential to update tourism statistics.
Statistics play an important role in developing more effective tourism policy at European, national, regional and local level.
Indeed, they are a useful instrument for supporting the decision-making process in businesses and the private sector.
This regulation is aimed at establishing a common legislative framework for the systematic production of European statistics on tourism by means of the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the Member States of harmonised European statistics on tourism supply and demand.
This proposal should improve the timeliness, comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted, as well as the efficiency of the data processing, including improved data evaluation.
This regulation also adapts the legal framework to reflect the latest changes in the tourism industry through the introduction of new variables, such as tourist movements over the course of a single day.
I voted in favour of the report for those reasons.
However, since the entry into force of this directive, the tourism industry and relative demand have changed significantly.
The Commission has therefore set out a new proposed regulation aimed at establishing a policy framework for tourism by making use of the powers introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
in writing. - I voted in favour.
Tourism is an important economic activity in the EU, with a high potential for contributing to greater employment and economic growth, as well as for playing an important role in socio-economic integration in rural, peripheral and less-developed areas, such as areas rich in industrial heritage.
Statistics in this field are not only used to monitor tourism-specific policies, but also play a role in the wider context of regional policy and sustainable development.
Eurostat publishes these statistics, which are collected and compiled by national statistical authorities.
Tourism plays an essential role in the socio-economic development of rural areas, which are often marginalised and underdeveloped.
In this context, statistics not only monitor specific tourism policies, but are also useful in the broader context of regional policies and sustainable development.
The document also addresses the main challenges that the sector is facing, such as increased global competition, demographic trends, climate change and environmental restrictions, the seasonal distribution of tourist movement and the increasing use of new information and communications technologies by customers.
I voted against the report because the proposed rules would require a monthly collection of data to measure the seasonal influences and the economic and social aspects of the sector, run mostly by small and medium-sized enterprises.
I voted today in favour of the report under discussion concerning European statistics on tourism.
The European Union gives considerable support to the development of tourism in the various regions in order to increase the availability of different types of tourism.
It is therefore necessary that we possess accurate and relevant statistics, both for the private and public sectors.
The European Union is visited by over 370 million foreign tourists a year, a total of 40% of the tourists in the entire world.
Tourism is the third most important socio-economic activity in the EU, which means that its economic dimension, as a generator of jobs, is vital for the Member States.
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the EU has assumed new powers on tourism, as confirmed by Article 195 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
This new legal framework allows the EU to support, coordinate and supplement action by the Member States, and to reduce the administrative burden.
I am voting in favour of this report for these reasons, as I believe that it is vital to equip all stakeholders in the tourism sector with reliable statistical data so that they can adapt to the challenges that European tourism is facing.
European coordination, with the effective participation of the Member States, is crucial in order to implement this system and for a concrete evaluation of the competitiveness of the tourism industry.
Knowledge of the volume of this sector, its characteristics, tourist profiles, spending in the sector and the benefits and/or problems it brings to national economies should form part of this extended study.
It is also worth highlighting the focus on the development of aquaculture, with measures for growth, along with tracking and monitoring from an environmental and health standpoint, which will enable its sustainability.
With regard to measures for controlling their waters, carried out by the supervisory authorities of the Member States, these will only be successful if there is investment in technology and control systems that are more effective and less costly.
Several elements of the legislation have evolved since the adoption of this regulation.
The Commission is proposing to amend it, with the aim of ensuring consistency between all the elements of the legislative framework, and also of clarifying the scope of some of the financed measures.
I supported this report as Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 establishing Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea is an important EU financing instrument where fisheries are concerned.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that it is increasingly obvious in general that fisheries management has to be based on up-to-date scientific knowledge of stock status.
I voted in favour of the report amending Regulation (EC) No 861/2006.
In May 2006, the Council approved this important instrument for financing fishing activity.
To respond better to real needs, we think it appropriate to clarify certain articles of the regulation and clarify the scope of certain financed measures.
Finally, I agree with the rapporteur on the need for fishery management based on updated and rigorous scientific knowledge of resources and greater control in order to make fishing more sustainable.
in writing. - (RO) I think that the importance of the aquaculture sector is steadily increasing.
I voted in favour of the report on 'Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea'.
I regret, however, that the proposal to increase cofinancing rates in the area of additional data collection, management and use to 60% of eligible expenditure has not been adopted.
This report concerns a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 of 22 May 2006 establishing Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea.
Since 2006, several aspects of the aforementioned regulation have changed and become outdated, so their amendment is justified.
We value Parliament's adoption of the amendments to the Commission's proposal for a regulation included in the report.
These amendments will enable financing for the Member States to develop diverse technology to be used in the fishing industry, along with equipment and software or IT networks which allow them to compile, manage, validate, analyse and develop sampling methods, and move towards the exchange of fisheries data.
Within the area of aquaculture, it will also be possible to fund the collection, management and use of environmental data, promoting environmental and health monitoring and surveillance in this sector, in order to contribute to its sustainability.
However, we cannot but regret the rejection of the amendments aimed at increasing, albeit modestly, the maximum Community cofinancing rate for the Member States in the area of the collection, management and use of scientific data on stock status, and in the area of monitoring.
This therefore shows the inconsistency of an EU which, on the one hand, has encroached upon the powers of the Member States in this area, but which, on the other, refuses to strengthen the financing resources dedicated to these activities.
This report has amended Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 establishing Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy (CFP) and in the area of the Law of the Sea.
It constitutes an important European Union financial instrument in the area of fisheries.
The Commission also believes that, in some cases, experience has demonstrated the need to ensure that the provisions of the regulation be adapted slightly to better respond to needs.
in writing. - I was able to support Mr Ferreira's report.
I voted in favour of this document, because it is being increasingly recognised across the board that fisheries management has to be based on up-to-date accurate scientific knowledge of stock status.
This is a sine qua non of sustainable fisheries development.
I therefore believe that it should be permissible to raise the cofinancing rates laid down in the area of basic data collection, management and use, with a proposed maximum of 75%.
Member States and their control authorities are playing, and must continue to play, a central role in overseeing and enforcing control measures in their waters: this is a key way of ensuring compliance with the rules and respect for stocks.
If this work is to be carried out effectively, Member States have to acquire, or be in a position to develop and modernise, the technologies available.
The regulation is an important instrument for implementing the common fisheries policy.
The control activities are playing a growing role in supporting sustainability and the continued existence of the fisheries sector.
It is important that the Member States and their supervisory authorities enforce control measures in their waters to ensure that we have fisheries which comply with the rules and respect stocks.
The proposal to amend Council Regulation (EC) No 861/2006, establishing Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea is an important financial instrument aimed at protecting fisheries.
I voted in favour of the proposal because I believe we need to change the current version of the regulation in order to bring its provisions in line with the Treaty of Lisbon.
The review has allowed us to make improvements to the text, enabling us to respond appropriately and effectively to the needs of the sector.
The growing importance of aquaculture justifies the introduction of provisions regarding the collection, management and use of environmental, socio-economic and health data, in order to contribute to its sustainability.
A fundamental role is given to individual states, which have the duty to ensure compliance with the rules and control of the use of water, taking advantage of new technologies, in light of scientific developments.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The modifications made in this legislation should facilitate moves towards a policy of regionalisation for the CFP which I welcome.
The existing Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 establishes Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy (CFP) and the Law of the Sea, and constitutes an important EU financial instrument in the area of fisheries.
This regulation provides for financing in the following areas: international relations, governance, data collection and scientific advice, and the monitoring and implementation of the CFP.
in writing. - The amendment of Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 establishes the second main financial instrument of the common fisheries policy after the European Fisheries Fund.
The so-called 'second instrument' provides funding for data collection, and control measures, scientific advice, common fisheries policy control systems and enforcement.
It is necessary to clarify the scope of some of the measures financed and to improve the wording of certain articles.
The amendments to be tabled to Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 should help to allow the specified cofinancing rates of clearly defined common financing to be raised in the area of the Law of the Sea.
The financial action on the part of the Union concerning implementation of the EU's common fisheries policy and the Law of the Sea gives us the economic means to implement the common fisheries policy with funding targeted at those areas in need of development and coordination regarding the Law of the Sea.
The amendment of this regulation will help enforce the common policy and utilise funds for collecting data, international relations, and scientific and technical areas regarding fisheries.
Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 establishing Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea is an important EU financing tool where fisheries are concerned.
In each sphere of activity, this regulation applies in conjunction with other regulations or decisions.
That related legislation has changed in some respects since the adoption of Regulation (EC) No 861/2006, which consequently needs to be amended in order to bring all elements into a coherent relationship within the legislative framework.
The Commission is also seeking to clarify the scope of some of the measures financed and to improve the wording of certain articles.
Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 establishing Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea is an important EU instrument for funding fisheries.
This document is also one of the two main means used to implement the common fisheries policy.
It provides funding for the following areas: international relations, governance, data collection, scientific consultancy, as well as control and implementation of the common fisheries policy.
The resolution adopted today recognises the importance of fisheries management based on up-to-date and rigorous scientific knowledge of resources.
The document voted on today is aimed at adapting the financial measures for implementing fisheries policy to the evolution of the legislative framework, to changes in current needs, and to legal clarification on actions to be undertaken, particularly those included in Decision 2000/439/EC that have not yet been taken up by the text of Regulation No 861/2006.
It is also vital to facilitate the conclusion of public contracts with international bodies, and to provide for the obligation to possess detailed information in order to carry out joint projects.
It would be desirable to increase the potential level of cofinancing, particularly as regards measures for monitoring fisheries activities, and the collection, management and use of data, to 60% of eligible expenditure.
Aquaculture is no less important, and data for this should stress both the socio-economic and the environmental fields.
Moreover, it is becoming increasingly necessary to make use of new techniques here, which requires the constant adaptation and modernisation of existing techniques.
I would like to congratulate my colleague in the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, Mr Ferreira (PCP), on his report, which was adopted today by a very large majority in the European Parliament.
This report confirms the importance of fisheries management based on up-to-date, accurate scientific knowledge of stock status.
This is a sine qua non of sustainable fisheries development.
Some of Mr Ferreira's amendments, for example, those enabling an increase in cofinancing rates (from 50% to 60%) in the area of collection, management and use of scientific data on fish stocks, were, regrettably, not adopted.
This report shows the contribution that the GUE/NGL Group can nevertheless make to debates in the European Parliament, and I know that we can count on Mr Ferreira to continue this fight for sustainable fisheries, giving priority to small-scale fishermen over industrial groups in the sector.
I therefore consider the general agreement on the text between the Council and the European Parliament to be a good compromise in terms of the common fisheries policy and the Law of the Sea.
Since agreement on the draft regulation to simplify and clarify the Community rules on the conservation of fisheries resources was not possible in 2008, a regulation was adopted establishing a set of transitional measures for the period from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011.
This report, which merited my support, is aimed at extending this transitional period until January 2013, so that a new set of technical measures can be drawn up as part of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy.
It also calls on the Commission to take the initiative during this new extension period for the existing regulation and to proceed, alongside the involved parties, with an assessment of the impact that the measures currently in force have on the ships implementing them and on the ecosystems covered.
It is equally important that the future Commission proposal on technical measures clearly establish the competences of the Council and Parliament, in line with the ordinary legislative procedure.
The proposal to extend the validity of the 2009 Council Regulation on establishing transitional technical measures by 18 months, which means until 31 December 2012, will enable the Commission to prepare a new package of technical measures which will become part of the reform of the common fisheries policy.
I think that the amendments are acceptable because the common fisheries policy must, on the one hand, conserve fisheries resources and, on the other, be beneficial to ordinary citizens, in this case, Ireland's small-scale fishers.
This is precisely the reason why I think that a balance needs to be struck between catch limits, technical measures and the fishers' needs.
I voted in favour of this report because technical measures are very important in that they determine the activities of fishermen and have an impact on the future of fisheries resources.
in writing. - I voted for this report to support the fishing industry in Ireland and Europe over the longer term.
Sustainable fishing must be our guiding principal.
I found many very strong arguments in favour of the Gallagher amendments but, in the end, voted with my group to maintain political cohesion within the group.
In the light of the obligations arising from the Treaty of Lisbon, in 2010, the Commission withdrew its proposal for a Council regulation on the conservation of fish stocks through technical measures.
The basic principles relating to these technical measures should now be incorporated into a new basic regulation on the reform of the common fisheries policy, and there is expected to be another proposal to this effect in 2011.
The fisheries sector is crucial for the European Union, not only because of the food issue, but also because of the environmental issue, as aquatic ecosystems are at risk.
As Parliament is aware of the importance of this sector, it has often discussed this matter.
The regulation in force, which was adopted in 2008, established a set of transitional measures that were intended to be in force until June 2011, the provisional date for the entry into force of a new legal framework under the common fisheries policy.
The Commission is therefore seeking the extension of the current regulation until 1 January 2013, by which time the EU is expected to have legislation for adoption by the Council and Parliament, in line with the ordinary legislative procedure set out in the Treaty of Lisbon.
In view of this, I agree that the current regulation should remain in force until 1 January 2013.
The existence of adequate regulation in terms of technical measures is an instrument necessary for the sustainable use and proper conservation of fisheries resources.
This regulation on transitional technical measures resulted from the lack of agreement in 2008 on the draft regulation aimed at simplifying and clarifying Community rules on the conservation of fisheries resources.
It was intended to apply for the period from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011.
It is now proposed that it be extended for an additional period of 18 months, or until 1 January 2013, with the aim of establishing a new set of technical measures in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, pending a Commission proposal during 2011.
We believe that this extension should not be made without correcting the shortcomings and problems raised by the current legislation.
Unfortunately, the rapporteur and the majority in Parliament, following the Commission's position, have prevented that.
This regulation on transitional technical measures resulted from the lack of agreement in 2008 on the draft regulation aimed at simplifying and clarifying Community rules on the conservation of fisheries resources.
It was intended to apply for the period from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011.
It is now proposed that it be extended for an additional period of 18 months, or until 1 January 2013, with the aim of establishing a new set of technical measures in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, pending a Commission proposal during 2011.
We believe that this extension should not be made without correcting the shortcomings and problems raised by the current legislation.
Unfortunately, the rapporteur and the majority in Parliament, following the Commission's position, have prevented that.
Today's vote means that this obscenity will continue for another 18 months.
I voted in favour of this report because, in 2008, in the absence of agreement on a draft regulation to simplify and clarify the Community rules on the conservation of fisheries resources, a regulation was adopted establishing a package of transitional technical measures intended originally to apply from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011.
It will have to take the results of the evaluation into account in drawing up a new proposal for a regulation which will apply from 1 January 2013 and which, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, will be adopted under the codecision procedure.
Extending the validity of the regulation for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for a further 18 months opens up the possibility of analysing and evaluating the current impact on the vessels and ecosystems affected by the regulation.
The proposal is therefore very welcome as it will allow the best possible use to be made of the opportunities for improvement that have been identified.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution but, in order to support the Scottish fishing industry, I want haddock exempted from the regulation.
In 2008, the lack of an agreement on a draft regulation on simplifying and clarifying Community rules on the conservation of fish stocks led to the adoption of a regulation establishing a set of transitional measures which were originally envisaged for the period from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011.
With this legislative proposal, we are aiming to extend this transitional system for another 18 months, until 1 January 2013, in order to establish a new set of technical measures as part of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, pending a Commission proposal during 2011.
in writing. - I voted in favour.
In 2008, in the absence of an agreement on a draft regulation to simplify and clarify the Community rules on the conservation of fisheries resources, a regulation was adopted establishing a package of transitional technical measures originally intended to apply from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011.
The lack of agreement in 2008 on draft legislation aimed at simplifying and clarifying the Community rules on the conservation of fishery resources meant that we approved a regulation establishing a set of temporary measures initially foreseen for the period 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011.
The legislative proposal voted on today is to extend the term of the transitional arrangements for another eighteen months, that is, until 1 January 2013, with the aim of setting out a new set of technical measures within the framework of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, on which the Commission will submit a proposal in 2011.
Parliament has also passed Resolution on the proposal for a Council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures in the Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea.
The text stresses the importance of an appropriate division of powers between the Council, Parliament and the Commission.
With today's vote, Parliament asks that the Commission's forthcoming proposal on technical measures to establish the essential elements of the rules be the responsibility of the Council and Parliament in accordance with a shared decision.
The Commission will therefore have to make use of the new extension period to promote an impact assessment of the existing measures and of those that should be taken into account in developing the new proposal for the period from 1 January 2013, which is scheduled to be tabled during 2011.
With regard to the revision of the technical measures covered in the legislation, it is vital to extend the use of trammel nets along the coast to depths of between 200 m and 600 m until 31 December 2012, which will allow ships to continue to capture stocks of great economic importance to Portuguese national fisheries, such as anglerfish, in a sustainable manner.
I am voting for this report, considering the achievements in the negotiations, particularly with regard to increasing Parliament's budget by 2.3% compared to 2011, to funding for the Konrad Adenauer building in Luxembourg being limited, and to the withdrawal of the unit of assessment for the added value which provided for additional reductions to the value of EUR 13.7 million.
Funding for needs arising from EU enlargement with the accession of Croatia and adjustment to the Treaty of Lisbon will be integrated into a charter or amending budget.
For the first time, Parliament proposed a budget increase (2.3%) that is below inflation (2.8%).
Furthermore, I fully support the need to explore new funding opportunities in order to define a long-term budgetary strategy.
I agree that the current financial, economic and social situation of the EU obliges the European Parliament and other EU institutions to respond with the quality and efficiency that is required and to employ strict management procedures so that savings can be achieved.
This report allows us to examine objectively the European Parliament's 2012 budget.
in writing. - I support this report because it gives an adequate budget framework for the important work of the EU institutions during this time of economic crisis for European citizens.
However, Parliament's 2012 budget represents a decrease in real terms, with an increase lower than inflation in the EU, and with cuts of EUR 49 million compared to the initial proposal.
The adopted budget has remained below 20% of heading 5, which has not happened for several years.
The rapporteur has also had to fight against misinformation and demagoguery.
I voted in favour of this report and would highlight that the 2.3% increase in Parliament's budget provided for is lower than the inflation forecast of 2.8% for the EU, which will lead to a 0.5% cut in real terms for 2012.
However, I would like to denounce the demagoguery surrounding three proposed amendments aimed at modifying the rules on Members travelling to and from their country of residence and Parliament, and I voted against them.
The report seeks to ensure that funding is increased at least in line with inflation for critical social policy expenditure at this time of rising unemployment.
The report proposes a maximum budget increase of 2.3%, keeping the increase below the EU rate of inflation.
This is more than half the original administrative request for an increase of 5.2%.
The European Parliament is under an obligation to spend taxpayers' money in an appropriate and responsible way.
In a time of economic crisis, it is particularly important to make economical use of taxpayers' money.
However, as the amendments concerning freezing MEPs' salaries and allowances next year were rejected - and the result of the vote also meant that the construction of a building for the European Parliament's administration in Luxembourg was once again being welcomed, which, according to some calculations, will cost EUR 549 million - we were not able to support the resolution as it stands.
I voted in favour of the report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of Parliament for the financial year 2012 - Section I - Parliament.
I regret, however, that during the current crisis, Parliament has not felt able to lead by example and has rejected the proposals on revising the current system of salaries for Members, as well as proposals for not updating salaries and allowances in 2012.
In the negotiations on Parliament's budget for 2012, we fought to significantly reduce the original proposal of 5.7%.
The final result was 2.3%, which represents a real reduction in the budget compared with inflation.
In this proposal, we call for a more long-term review of Parliament's expenditure.
For far too long, there has been a tendency within Parliament to always take new decisions with long-term financial consequences without looking at the whole picture.
Parliament cannot simply make decisions every year concerning cost increases without also trying to find a way to finance them by reprioritising and improving efficiency.
Finally, we would also like to emphasise the fact that we are in favour of a review of the costs for MEPs travel allowances and other allowances.
For ethical reasons, especially when we are asking sacrifices of the European people, particularly the Portuguese, I have decided not to vote for any amendment that affects my salary status or the performance of my duties as a Member.
Despite the crisis of capitalism hitting workers and the general population hard, and austerity measures targeting those who have the least, EU budgets have not reflected the need to change the direction of the policies that are responsible for this crisis in the EU.
In addition to the concerns that we raised during the debate in plenary, we are concerned that the intended framework will increase job insecurity, exacerbating the situation of workers who find themselves without a permanent employment contract after decades of service, as well as the 'transfer' of many workers to temporary employment agencies.
Despite including adjustments to Parliament's expenditure by reducing the external provision of services and other minor expenses, yet also increasing headings for grants and travel expenses, Section I of the provision for 2012, concerning Parliament, represents an increase of 2.3% on the same section of the 2011 budget.
We are concerned that the proposed framework will increase job insecurity, exacerbating the situation of workers who find themselves without a permanent employment contract after decades of service, as well as the 'transfer' of many workers to temporary employment agencies.
For this reason, we are voting against the draft amendments, which open the way for insecurity by advocating savings in Parliament, and which seek to promote the funding of European parties and European political foundations, although we believe that Members should set an example by changing their financial status, and we voted against a substantial increase in salaries.
For all these reasons, we voted against this report.
in writing. - With regard to the Fernandes report, even though I would, in principle, have voted in favour of Amendments 13 and 15, I abstained for a technical reason.
I voted in favour of this report because the current financial, economic and social situation of the EU obliges the institutions to respond with the quality and efficiency that is required and to employ strict management procedures so that savings can be achieved.
In a tough economic climate, it is not right that the European Parliament should be planning to increase its expenditure by 2.3% next year.
As for the StrasbourgBrussels rally, this costs European taxpayers around EUR 200 million each year.
The Danish Liberal Party voted against Amendment 3 in the Fernandes report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of Parliament for the financial year 2012.
In these times of great budgetary sobriety, it is important that the European Parliament sets an example in its management and achieves savings where it can.
I particularly wished to express my perplexity and my concern about the way in which the House of European History project has so far been handled.
However, I voted in favour of an amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) introducing greater transparency and responsibility in the handling of this issue and demanding appropriate parliamentary control.
in writing. - I voted against this resolution as I cannot support a 2.3% increase in Parliament's budget at a time when the Council has made cuts of 4.4% and the Commission will limit its administrative expenditure rise to 1%.
The crisis that has devastated the world, and the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the Member States, are leading Parliament to demonstrate budgetary responsibility and restraint in the 2012 financial year, without jeopardising the ambitious goals that it has set, including legislative excellence.
The budget should amount to EUR 1 725 billion, which means a 2.3% increase in 2012.
This is lower than the 2.8% rate of inflation for the 27 EU Member States.
It is this kind of concern that must always be present when discussing EU budgets, so that everyone in the Member States is able to have a say in EU policy and see that their contributions are being properly implemented.
Firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work that he has carried out.
The economic and budgetary conditions that all the Member States are currently experiencing are not unfamiliar to Parliament, and it should show budgetary responsibility and restraint in the 2012 financial year while maintaining the level of quality of its work.
The budget has been cut by 2.3% in real terms compared to the 2011 budget, and has suffered a total cut of EUR 48.9 million compared with the proposed estimates.
To this end, the rapporteur proposes lowering the ceiling of heading 5 of the multiannual financial framework for 2012 by EUR 100 million, and raising other headings which favour young people by the same amount.
That is why I voted in favour of this report.
The additional resources required to meet the needs of the Treaty of Lisbon and future enlargement should be identified in budget reconciliation procedures at a later stage.
in writing. - I abstained in the final vote on this report because at a time of austerity across the European Union, it seems ridiculous to support projects such as the European House of History.
This may be a worthy project in its own right, but clearly it would be remiss of Parliament, which represents the people, to agree with this expenditure at this time.
I voted against the estimates for the EP's 2011 expenditure and income because the resolution contains a number of things which I cannot endorse.
In these times of crisis and cutbacks, a freeze on spending would seem to me to be a more appropriate measure.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the amendment which explicitly states that a closer eye needs to be kept on the cost centre.
It was essential to take into account the current economic and budgetary difficulties in the vote on the Fernandes report on the estimates of Parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2012.
It is therefore necessary that all financial guarantees relating to this project are clearly identified before any work can start.
The budget in question has been cut by 2.3% in real terms when compared to the 2011 budget, and has suffered a total cut of EUR 48.9 million when compared with the proposed estimates.
These two latter points will be the subject of an amending budget later.
Investment in young people is a key priority at present for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
To this end, the rapporteur proposes lowering the ceiling of heading 5 of the multiannual financial framework for 2012 by EUR 100 million, and raising other headings which favour young people by the same amount.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that the elimination of the budget line for the House of European History will not jeopardise its viability since the amount will be transferred to another heading, in line with a transparent process that is approved by the budgetary authority.
I fully agree with the objectives outlined in the adopted text, which are: a stringent human resources management approach prior to the establishment of new posts, greater security within the European Parliament, a digital strategy with regard to social networks, the creation of a wi-fi service and a property strategy to manage more intelligently any expenditure on buildings belonging to Parliament.
I am voting for this resolution, which seeks to amend Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 of Parliament and of the Council on nutrition and health claims made on foods, which have only been authorised by the Commission in line with this regulation.
I am voting for this resolution as it relates to a health claim on the list of permitted claims concerning the use of baby milk in infants of six months or over, since docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a type of acid, has been detected as having being added to milk formula.
Therefore, we must ensure that the substances which claim to be beneficial are subjected to scientific tests and studies carried out by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
This resolution concerned the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children's development and health.
I voted against the resolution proposed in plenary as I consider it essential that claims for children between six and 12 months are able to be made and to be validated scientifically by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
I voted against this initiative because, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006, the health claim that docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) intake contributes to the normal visual development of infants between six and 12 months of age could not be concluded from the experts' opinion communicated to the Commission.
What is more, a report published in June 2010 in the British Medical Journal found that 10 years after being fed with DHA fortified formula, children were heavier and had higher blood pressure.
I agree that the claim that 'the ingestion of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) contributes to the normal development of the eyes of infants up to 12 months old' should be added to the EU list of approved health claims, in accordance with the proposed Commission regulation.
Generally accepted scientific knowledge shows that not only DHA in breast milk, but also synthetic DHA added to dairy foods for infants and other foods intended for infants, helps the development of infants' eyes.
It is certainly true that the presence of DHA in breast milk has a positive impact on the visual development of infants up to 12 months.
However, this does not automatically mean that synthesised DHA, included in other forms of milk for infants, has the same effect.
I am disappointed that many conservative MEPs stood with big business interests on this issue.
DHA is naturally found in breast milk, and it helps the development of children's eyes.
Babies' health is too important to be left in the hands of a multinational company's marketing department.
It was therefore necessary to apply the precautionary principle and, hence, not to authorise this claim.
Unfortunately, by just 8 votes, Parliament decided to accept the Commission's proposal.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the 'authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children's development and health', as there is no recognised scientific proof that synthesised docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) added to formula milks and other foods intended for infants, and which is different from the DHA found in breast milk, contributes to the visual development of children.
In view of this, any claim that is to be added to the list of permitted health claims should be considered in the light of the most recent scientific state of the art, so that it can be properly founded.
The Commission argues that this is true in this case, where it considers it proven that 'docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) intake contributes to the normal visual development of infants up to 12 months of age'.
This resolution of the European Parliament is about the draft regulation tabled by the Commission on the authorisation and refusal of certain health claims made on foods, relating to reduction of the risk of illness or the health and development of children.
Therefore, taking into account the arguments put forward by the rapporteur on this matter, which is as sensitive as it is important, I am voting against this draft regulation, as I believe that it does not adequately protect public health, especially that of children.
This document is opposed to adopting the draft regulation proposed by the Commission on 'on the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children's development and health', as it is not compatible with the objectives and content of the regulation on nutrition and health claims made on foods.
It relates principally to problems resulting from the addition, using a number of means, of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) to breast milk, where it contributes to normal visual development in children aged up to 12 months.
This means that there is no clear scientific consensus on the effect on infants of DHA-enriched formulae in a biological environment other than breast milk, whether it is used in formula milk or other foods for infants.
Indeed, this code, among other things, seeks to ensure that no form of advertising or other form of promotion of breast-milk substitutes is allowed.
Products for children such as formula milk must be able to benefit from claims if they have been scientifically validated by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) as in the case of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which contributes to the normal visual development of infants from six to 12 months of age.
To prohibit all communication, even on recognised scientific effects, would considerably hinder research and innovation in this sector.
Today, Parliament chose the path of reason by rejecting this resolution in favour of banning this claim and of heaping opprobrium on the work of the EFSA.
in writing. - I am voting for this resolution to reject the health claim that adding the natural fatty acid DHA to baby food contributes to the normal visual development of infants for a number of reasons.
First, there is a difference between synthetic DHA and DHA in breast milk.
In short, there is need for more research The delegation of the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) voted in favour of this resolution, because there are clear doubts about the health claims made for DHA.
I voted in favour of this document on the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children's development and health, because goods in the common market must be safe to consume, comply with standards, and be legal.
Health claims made on foods must be substantiated and scientifically proven, especially when we are talking about children and their health.
It is necessary to ensure that the substances for which a claim is made have been shown to have a beneficial nutritional or physiological effect.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which challenges an authorised claim about baby food.
Formula milk producer Mead Johnson has applied to the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the Standing Committee on Food Chain and Animal Health (SCFCAH) for permission to use the health claim 'Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) intake contributes to the normal visual development of infants up to 12 months of age'.
However, an independent review of all the available evidence on DHA in formula milk in 2008 found that adding DHA to formula milk 'had no proven benefit regarding vision, cognition or physical growth'.
These were the criteria behind the EU regulation of 20 December 2006 regarding nutrition and health claims on foods.
The principles still stated in this regulation today ensure a close relationship between experimented and verified scientific data and the authorisation of the use of certain foods.
The draft Commission regulation which we are discussing today does not provide all the necessary guarantees, nor the normal principle of caution in the absence of necessary scientific requirements, to ensure that nutrition and health claims are not misleading.
DHA in breast milk carries out the function that scientific evidence has shown, but the synthetic version is not yet compatible with the aims and the substance of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006.
I voted against the resolution rejecting the indication of the presence of DHA in milk substitutes for babies because I think it is right to advertise the reasons for which DHA is added.
In this case, the EFSA gave its authorisation to manufacturers of foodstuffs intended for newly-born infants to claim that the synthesised version of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a fatty acid naturally present in breast milk 'contributes to the normal visual development of infants up to 12 months of age'.
I regret that Parliament simply forgot to make commonsense and ethics a priority of European food safety policies.
I voted against the draft regulation aiming to authorise the health claim that docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) intake contributes to the normal visual development of infants up to 12 months of age.
While a majority of Members voted in favour of this rejection, there were 40 votes too few to reach the qualified majority required to validate the rejection.
Further, even if generally accepted scientific evidence shows that DHA in breast milk contributes to the visual development of infants, there is currently no scientific consensus on a possible causal relationship between the intake of formula supplemented with synthesised DHA and better visual development of infants.
It seems to me that, in the absence of a scientific consensus, there is a need for more research into the possible effects, both beneficial and harmful, of DHA supplementation before the use of DHA in follow-on formulae and foods for infants can be claimed in the EU to be beneficial.
I have therefore voted in favour of the Commission proposal to include the health claim for DHA on powdered milk for children, as this provides positive information for mothers who, for serious health reasons, are unable to breast-feed their babies.
It is necessary to give these women positive information on powdered milk at the point when they are deciding which product to purchase.
in writing. - In favour, since the consensus resolution considers that the draft Commission regulation on the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children's development and health is not compatible with the aim and content of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006, and opposes the adoption of the draft Commission regulation.
Docosahexaenoic acid, known as DHA, is a substance found in breast milk, and numerous scientific studies show that it plays a positive role in the development of eyesight in newborn children.
Breast milk contains substances and active ingredients which are fundamental and irreplaceable for babies, but unfortunately, not all women can breast-feed.
So I voted against this resolution because by preventing access to proper information, we are taking away one more aid for mothers, who, unable to breast-feed their babies, are obliged to resort to the use of these products.
in writing. - I supported this resolution as I believe that the health claims relating to DHA have not been scientifically supported and feel strongly that consumers should not be misinformed.
In such a case, of course, it is to be hoped that the substitute is as much like breast milk as possible, as far as its composition is concerned.
This motion for a resolution questioned the importance of the ingredient known as DHA for children and their development.
DHA seeks to replace the fatty acids in breast milk, which have been found to help the child's eyes develop and which at least some manufacturers of the substitute have added to their products.
Politicians should also have faith in the decisions of the safety authorities.
There is a danger that these potentially misleading claims could result in an increase in formula milk being given to children who could lose out on vital nutrients, such as DHA, that are found naturally in breast milk.
The European Parliament today rejected the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety calling for more research to be carried out before it can be claimed that docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is a substance with beneficial properties for infants.
Despite the doubts expressed by the Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the majority in Parliament has de facto authorised the European Food Safety Authority to declare that 'docosahexaenoic acid contributes to the normal visual development of infants up to 12 months of age'.
I am voting for this report since, in the face of an increasingly globalised world, the EU as a whole needs to opt for productive investment options, and I agree with the position stated in this report that the Commission and the Council should open negotiations to begin investing in third countries such as Canada, India and China.
I voted for this report as I believe that the European Union needs a coherent investment policy which will make a positive contribution to economic growth, sustainable development and employment.
This development, which has significant consequences, throws up a double challenge both for managing more than 1 200 bilateral investment treaties (BIT) already concluded by the Member States and to define a future European investment policy which meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states while, at the same time, respecting the objectives of the EU's external action.
The EU's future policy must also promote investment which is sustainable, respects the environment (particularly in the area of extractive industries) and encourages good quality working conditions in the enterprises targeted by the investment.
Based on these new powers, both the Commission and Member States can devise, together with Parliament, a policy for promoting high quality investments, with a positive impact on economic growth and employment.
The crisis has led, as was only natural, to a reduction in the volume of foreign direct investments, which had reached EUR 1 500 billion in 2007.
This is the reason why I supported this report, which is among the areas coming under the exclusive competence of the European Parliament.
In addition to investor protection, the Commission must include in all future agreements specific clauses laying down the right of the third party and of the EU to regulate in the technological areas associated with protection of national security, the environment, public health, workers' and consumers' rights and industrial policy.
This is a powerful signal, which has been conveyed to the Council and to the Commission on the eve of the opening of investment negotiations with countries such as Canada, India and, in the very near future, China.
European investors must adopt responsible behaviour abroad, while protecting the right of the European Union to regulate investments in the public interest.
I voted for this report because I believe that the proposed investment policy will meet the expectations of both investors and the states involved, thus contributing to making the EU and its companies more competitive.
According to Articles 206 and 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), foreign direct investment (FDI) is an exclusive competence of the EU.
In addition to managing the bilateral investment treaties that have been concluded, it is up to the Union to set out a policy for future European investment that meets the expectations of investors and recipient countries, and which respects its objectives for external action at the same time.
Protecting investors should remain the top priority in investment agreements.
Future agreements should be based on best practice drawn from the experiences of the Member States, and they should take account of the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
This report addresses the problems of future European international investment policy.
Since the founding of the EU, many bilateral investment treaties (BITs) have been signed by the Member States: around 3 000 since 1959.
Foreign direct investment (FDI) is defined as 'a long-lasting investment, representing at least 10% of the affiliated company's equity capital/shares and providing the investor with managerial control over the affiliated company's operations'.
The implementation of a common investment policy is being advocated on the basis of these new responsibilities.
The example of Portugal is particularly revealing.
In the definition given by the Court of Justice of the EU, foreign direct investment (FDI) means 'a long-lasting investment, representing at least 10% of the affiliated company's equity capital/shares and providing the investor with managerial control over the affiliated company's operations'.
Due to these new responsibilities, the rapporteur advocates the implementation of a common investment policy.
In most cases, FDI does not solve the problem of development in the countries where it is carried out.
It is therefore an understatement to say that I have absolutely no confidence in this institution to defend, comply with or enforce the principles set out in the report.
I believe that a common policy on investment will meet the expectations of both investors and the states concerned and help increase the competitiveness of the EU and its businesses and increase employment.
Strong, effective investor protection in the form of investment treaties is key to protecting European investors and can improve governance and ensure stability.
For investment agreements to further benefit these countries, they should also be based on investor obligations in terms of compliance with human rights and anti-corruption standards as part of a broader partnership between the EU and developing countries for the purpose of reducing poverty.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for this report as I think that we need to guarantee external competitiveness and uniform treatment for all EU investors.
Liberalisation of investments and protection are becoming the fundamental instruments of a common international investment policy.
However, Member States will continue to apply policies promoting investments which will supplement and be compatible with the common international investment policy.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which calls for better definition of investor protection standards and greater transparency in the arbitration system, the right to appeal against decisions by international arbitrators and the possibility to consult trades unions and civil society organisations.
Until now, investment agreements were so focused on investor protection that companies could sometimes operate in developing countries without respect for environmental or social considerations.
This is why the report calls for new rules and for corporate social responsibility to be a core element of any future agreement.
The world has changed.
The report calls for a real balance between public and private interests.
Foreign direct investment (FDI) is under exclusive EU competence, as set out in Articles 206 and 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
The bilateral investment treaties that have been concluded need to be managed, and the Union should establish a European policy for future investment that meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary countries.
Future agreements should be based on the best practice of the past, and they should also take account of the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
in writing. - As I understood, this report deals with international investment treaties.
The main objectives of these treaties are to increase foreign investors' access to markets and to provide a high level of protection for investments and investors against arbitrary actions by governments of states receiving the investment.
Before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, there was a division of tasks in which the Commission negotiated market access of foreign direct investment (FDI) while the Member States signed investment protection agreements with third states.
With the Lisbon Treaty, foreign direct investment has become an exclusive competence of the EU and an integral part of the EU's external trade policy.
It is good that this report sends a strong signal to the Commission and the Council, which are about to start investment negotiations with third countries like Canada, India and, soon to come, China.
Therefore, it is crucial for the Parliament to ensure responsible behaviour by European investors abroad while, at the same time, protecting the EU's right to regulate in the public interest.
As foreign direct investment (FDI) was brought under exclusive EU competence, every effort must be made to build a coherent and integrated investment policy that respects human rights and the principles of the rule of law.
A common policy on investment will promote high quality investments, sustainable economic, social and environmentally friendly development, and will have a positive impact on economic progress worldwide.
I believe that such a policy on investment will help Europe remain the principal actor in the field of foreign direct investment, and this will help revitalise economic growth, increase the competitiveness of businesses and promote job creation.
I believe that the Commission must draw up the EU's investment strategy as a matter of urgency, because both foreign investment in the EU and EU investment abroad have a positive impact on growth and employment in the EU and other countries, including developing countries.
Furthermore, legal certainty must be ensured for small and medium-sized enterprises, creating favourable conditions for them to invest in foreign markets.
Under Articles 206 and 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, foreign direct investment (FDI) is an exclusive EU competence.
This development, which has serious consequences, represents a two-pronged challenge, namely, managing more than 1 200 bilateral investment treaties (BITs) and defining a European policy for future investment that meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states, while also respecting the EU's external action objectives.
Consistent, sound and effective investment policy requires a clear definition of FDI, and a clear definition of its scope and application.
I voted in favour of this report and would like to emphasise the call by Parliament to the Commission that it makes provision for the establishment of a clear definition of the investments to be protected, including both FDIs and portfolio investments, stipulating that investments of a speculative nature, as defined by the Commission, should not be protected.
The first requirement is that all these agreements include clauses compelling European investors to behave responsibly abroad in economic, social and environmental matters.
The second requirement is that all these agreements leave scope for the governments of the countries receiving this investment to legislate for the common good.
In the past, some private investment protection clauses enabled the adoption, by the third country, of social or environmental legislation to be regarded as indirect expropriation, resulting in compensation.
We need to put an end to these abuses.
While this Parliament has, for the first time, a say on such matters, the Arif report has fired a warning shot across the bows of the Council and the Commission as they prepare to open negotiations with India, Canada and, soon, with China.
According to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, foreign direct investment comes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Union.
This represents a challenge to be overcome at all costs, especially as regards the establishment of a European investment policy which will meet the needs of European investors and recipient countries and is able, at the same time, to comply with the objectives of EU foreign action.
The numerous investment agreements signed by the EU, whether bilateral or multilateral, must guarantee the protection of investors in all the appropriate sectors.
Future EU policy should promote sustainable and environmentally friendly investments which promote good working conditions in businesses affected by foreign investment.
All investment agreements must be accompanied by a set of appropriate environmental and social rules as a form of additional guarantee.
This development, which has significant consequences, throws up a double challenge, both for managing the more than 1 200 bilateral investment treaties (BIT) already concluded by the Member States (MS) and defining a future European investment policy which meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states, while, at the same time, respecting the EU's external action objectives.
The extension of the competences of the EU to the foreign direct investment sector in the Treaty of Lisbon will allow us to lay the foundations for a single European policy in this sector.
Protection for our undertakings abroad must be our priority.
As the EU is the most 'open' market in the world, we need to adopt a framework to protect our businesses and the relevant conditions that will bring about a balance with our basic trading partners, so that European undertakings enjoy similar competitive conditions.
The Treaty of Lisbon has introduced far-reaching changes to the area of common trade policy.
Firstly, under the provisions of the Treaty, common trade policy has been extended by, among other things, matters relating to foreign direct investments.
This means that the assent of our Chamber will be necessary both in the case of the ratification of trade agreements and on questions of investment (concerning foreign direct investments).
The Union must create, as part of its common trade policy, a European investment policy which meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states.
Investment policy must also take account of the priorities of European Union foreign policy.
In this context, there is also the question of regulation at international level, with particular reference to negotiations at the WTO.
The new powers given to the Union by the Treaty of Lisbon also indirectly affect the competences of the European Parliament, placing it on a par with the Council in the decision-making process in the area of foreign direct investments.
This represents a two-pronged challenge: firstly, with regard to managing the Member States' current bilateral investment treaties (BITs) and, secondly, defining a European investment policy that meets the expectations of investors, the beneficiary states, and the interests of the EU.
To that end, we should move towards a clear definition of the investments to be protected, with the exception of those of a speculative nature, which should not be protected.
By identifying best practices drawn from Member States' experiences, and by respecting basic standards such as non-discrimination, fair and equal treatment, and protection from direct and indirect expropriation, we will have the foundations for a coherent European policy on this issue.
This report sends out a powerful message: Europe must be a key player in the investments of tomorrow.
The emergence of new economies has upset the balance between countries and their capacity to invest.
The report thus guarantees an economic and legal environment for enterprises, especially our small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) which, as a force for growth and jobs, are fundamental to our economic fabric.
Finally, it will be important to monitor the work carried out by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) over the year, and not only in the debate on the annual report.
I agreed with this report, which calls for measures to be taken and resources to be provided to ensure that EU funds are not subject to corruption and also to ensure one-stop transparency of the beneficiaries of EU funds.
EU taxpayers' money must be used appropriately and effectively.
The Member States must have effective control mechanisms and adequate fraud detection capability.
Apart from criticism and ambiguity in the Commission's assessment, I support the rapporteur's idea that we can only draw conclusions with regard to the situation on the Union's financial interests and the results of the fight against fraud if we include the data from the annual report from the Court of Auditors of the European Union for 2009 and from the OLAF report.
Article 325 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union obliges the European Commission and Member States to protect EU financial interests and fight against fraud in the areas in which the responsibility is shared between the Union and Member States.
I believe that, in general, the European Commission's report entitled 'The protection of Community financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual Report 2009' does not give information on the estimated level of fraud and irregularities in individual Member States, but concentrates rather on the level of reporting.
The results, in my view, cannot be regarded as empirical evidence of the level of fraud and irregularities, precisely because you cannot glean from it a comprehensive view of the actual situation in terms of fraud and irregularities in the Member States.
As I pointed out in a question at the end of last year, following an investigation by the Financial Times, there are serious doubts as to the aim and effectiveness of the Cohesion Fund.
At the same time, this report too 'deplores the fact that large amounts of EU funds are still wrongly spent and calls on the Commission to take appropriate action with a view to ensuring prompt recovery of those funds'.
There must also be provision for effectively penalising Member States that do not make good use of the funds that they have received.
Despite the improvements of recent years, it is vital that efforts to prevent any kind of fraud continue, even if it is also being combated by bodies of the Member States.
I hope that, through the incorporation of the suggestions made, the 2010 report will be better than that for 2009.
The report presents a summary of the available statistics on irregularities reported by the Member States in various areas, including agricultural policy, cohesion policy, pre-accession funds and the recovery of the EU's traditional own resources.
We support the criticisms and observations made by the rapporteur as regards the need to implement an effective recovery system.
However, we would stress that the fight against fraud and corruption should be carried out at a level that is as close as possible to where these phenomena take place, for various reasons, particularly reasons of effectiveness.
It is therefore necessary to step up the fight against fraud and corruption in every Member State, as common legislation at EU level alone is not a panacea for this phenomenon.
This is a report on the EU's financial interests which presents a summary of the available statistics on irregularities reported by the Member States in various areas, including agricultural policy, cohesion policy, pre-accession funds and the recovery of the EU's traditional own resources.
Innumerable irregularities were found in those areas in various Member States during 2009.
However, we would like to stress that, more importantly than having common legislation at EU level for combating corruption and fraud, each Member State needs to put the fight against fraud and corruption into practice.
I voted in favour of this report because the Member States must act primarily as protectors of taxpayers' money in their efforts to combat fraud.
We must strengthen the applied reporting methodology and fraud detection capability in the Member States.
The Commission's 'Protection of the European Union's financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual Report 2009' does not provide information on the estimated level of irregularities and fraud in individual Member States, and it is therefore not possible to have an overview of the actual level of irregularities and fraud in the Member States and to identify and discipline those with the highest level of irregularities and fraud.
The Commission's report fails to consider fraud in detail and deals with irregularities very broadly.
Unfortunately, large amounts of EU funds are still wrongly spent and therefore the Commission must take appropriate action with a view to ensuring prompt recovery of those funds.
I think that the protection of the EU's financial interests and the fight against fraud are especially important areas, and responsibility for them comes under the remit of both the European Union and Member States.
The report also gives an estimate of the irregularities which have occurred regarding expenditure managed directly by the Commission, as well as an overview of the operational activities of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
in writing. - I voted for this report, which strongly criticises the Commission for providing too little information on fraud and irregularities.
In agriculture and cohesion policy in particular, the rate of recovery of outstanding amounts is 'catastrophic'.
I share the view of the rapporteur that the Commission failed to provide much-needed information in its report on the protection of the Communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud, even regarding the estimated level of fraud and irregularities in individual EU Member States, in connection with the management of EU funds.
If we look at fraud and so-called irregularities at Union level, there is usually 'only' a specific segment of corruption and fraud in general at the level of individual Member States, but it is nevertheless a very substantial segment.
In other words, the Committee's report does not fully make this distinction and deals extensively with irregularities while failing to explore cases of fraud in any great detail.
The implementation of these policies and of expenditure depends on Member States, which are responsible for the national tools for the fight against irregularities and fraud.
The commitment of administrations is too heterogeneous and the high level of outstanding irregularities in some Member States is not acceptable.
Improvements are also expected in public procurement procedures, especially in terms of ensuring transparency and combating fraud.
This report highlights the number of irregularities and fraud cases in the spending of EU funds in each Member State.
The increase in the number of reported cases was caused by the introduction of new communication technologies.
The Member States should introduce the Irregularity Management System in order to develop improvements in fulfilling their reporting obligations to the European institutions.
Agriculture, cohesion policy and pre-accession funds are areas where rates of irregularity and fraud are particularly pronounced.
It is therefore necessary to take measures to increase monitoring, detection and correction.
in writing. - I know that the annual report examines how well EU finances are defended against fraud by the Commission and by Member States, as required in Article 325 TFEU.
There are areas where Member States implement the budget (agriculture, cohesion, pre-accession funds) and for collection of the EU's own resources through customs and duties.
It is important to conclude the agreement on the fight against tobacco smuggling between the EU and tobacco manufacturers.
This report only represents one step in this direction.
I have voted accordingly.
The vast majority of these episodes takes place in Southern Italy and relate to the theft or misuse of funds intended for development in these areas.
The purpose of these funds is to encourage the growth and development of deprived areas.
Therefore, more and more attention is needed in this area, in the form of continuous monitoring and timely information, which would immediately bring potential abuse to our attention.
This report highlights these issues, which is why I have decided to vote in favour.
On 5 April, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the protection of the Communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud.
It is the European Commission's and the Member States' duty to protect the EU's financial interests by fighting deceit, fraud and corruption.
The document which has been adopted contains statistics on this problem, many of which are alarming.
I support the opinions of the European Parliament and its requirement for the Member States to exercise real control over the spending of funds from the EU budget and also to provide full and reliable information in this area.
Equally important is the introduction of open and transparent public procurement systems and improved supervision of simplified customs procedures throughout the Union.
I voted in favour of the report on the protection of EU financial interests and the fight against fraud because it is a topic of interest for all Member States, which we must all confront in order to better coordinate our efforts against speculation or inappropriate management of national and/or EU resources.
The text lists a series of statistics on fraud, irregularities and inconsistencies found in various Member Countries and EU institutions themselves.
The data serve as a warning to those who protect the financial interests of the Union and who try to give detailed and reliable information in order to give an exhaustive picture of the international situation concerning irregularities and fraud with a view to protecting public interests.
This Commission report on the protection of the Communities' financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual Report 2009, submitted in line with Article 325(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), does not, in general, provide any information about the estimated level of irregularity and fraud in each Member State, but rather focuses on the level of communication.
It is therefore impossible to have a clear idea of the true scale of irregularities and fraud in the Member States, or to identify and discipline those with the highest levels of irregularities and fraud.
I voted for this report for these reasons.
in writing. - In favour.
Article 325 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union imposes on the European Commission and the Member States the obligation of protecting the EU's financial interest and fighting against fraud in areas in which the responsibility is shared between the European Union and the Member States.
Pursuant to Article 325(5), the Commission, in cooperation with Member States, each year submits to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the measures taken for the implementation of that article.
It also gives an estimate of irregularities in the field of expenditure managed directly by the Commission and an overview of the operational activities of the European Anti-Fraud Office.
I voted in favour of this report because too often, we lack reliable information on irregularities and fraud related to EU spending in Member States.
It is important now to take concrete steps to clearly distinguish between irregularities and fraud, as fraud is a criminal offence, while irregularities are the failure to comply with a rule and could easily be unintentional.
Quite the opposite, when this happens, we are not aware of the dangers and, as a result, we do not guard against them.
Control of fraud must not be restricted only to European institutions, but should be ensured in individual Member States.
Furthermore, the Member States should maintain transparency and responsibility in the area of public procurements.
Efforts should also be made, both in the Union and in the Member States, to ensure that procedures are simple and that they curb excessive bureaucracy.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as the fight against fraud is not only in the EU's financial interest but is also crucial to protecting consumers.
This report, which has been approved by all the European political groups, highlights the estimated scale of irregularities and cases of fraud in each Member State relating to the spending of EU funds.
According to the Commission, the increase in the number of reported cases was caused by the introduction of new communication technologies.
I am voting for this report, and I believe that the Commission should do more to place responsibility on and discipline the Member States with regard to fraud and irregularities.
The necessary information on each Member State must be made available so as to increase the effectiveness of control and monitoring systems, and to ensure that we have a true picture of the situation.
At the same time, the Member States should introduce the Irregularity Management System in order to make improvements in fulfilling its reporting obligations to the European institutions.
Agriculture, cohesion policy and pre-accession funds are areas where rates of irregularity and fraud are particularly pronounced, and it is therefore necessary to take measures to increase monitoring, detection and correction.
It is crucial that all the European entities, but particularly those of the Member States, work together in order to create a climate of transparency and rigour in the spending of European funds.
I voted in favour of the report on fraud linked to European expenditure in the Member States.
This report criticises the increase in suspicions of fraud, both in number and volume, compared with the total number of irregularities found in certain Member States (Poland, Romania and Bulgaria), and calls on the Commission, the relevant Union agencies and Member States to take measures to ensure that European funds are not subject to corruption and to adopt dissuasive sanctions where corruption and fraud are found.
This would seem to be a minimum requirement.
Through this report, Parliament also draws attention to France and Spain, 'expressing its concern' at the suspiciously low suspected fraud rates in these countries, and calls on the Commission to provide information on the fraud detection capability in these countries.
The fight against corruption is fundamental.
Genuine simplification should allow greater access to funds both for the local communities and small organisations that need them.
It would, without doubt, facilitate the management of funds and ensure better parliamentary control.
An effective solution must be found as quickly as possible for the problem of the high error rate in the allocation of EU funding.
The EU and the Member States must work together to ensure that EU funding brings the maximum benefit to the citizens of Europe, because ultimately, this is in the interests of both sides.
I voted in favour of the text presented by Mrs Ivan on the protection of EU financial interests and combating fraud in areas where responsibility is shared between the Union and Member States.
I think, especially in light of recent events, that it is important to pay attention to this problem and ensure a continued commitment to enable homogeneous and uniform opposition to fraud throughout the EU.
in writing. - We in UKIP are opposed in principle to European political parties.
This report is a step in the right direction, as it does not recognise a European statute for the parties' human resources, and it differentiates between the conditions for establishing a party and its funding.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the application of the regulations governing political parties at European level and the rules regarding their funding.
This is an important document contributing to European political party development in order to activate public interest in EU affairs.
So that EU citizens support and trust these parties, it is necessary to strengthen a single and transparent framework for the funding of political parties at European level.
It is very important for European political parties that promote democracy in the Union to be awarded a common and uniform legal status.
The adoption of a European statute based on EU law, which would help harmonise fiscal aspects of the EU's political parties, seems more important than ever for the parties in order to achieve their respective goals.
I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that this document will help make the EU's political party system work more effectively.
I think that relaxing the funding regime for political parties at European level may help strengthen and promote in the future the principle of representative democracy and, consequently, the interests of all European citizens, who contribute to the Union budget.
In the process of moving from the concept of a European 'polis' to the sense of a European political identity, we must strive towards simplifying direct contact between European citizens and political parties.
Mrs Giannakou emphasises in her report that this cannot be achieved without reviewing the status and funding of European parties.
This is why I voted in favour of this report.
In addition, it confirms that a political party at EU level may receive funding only if it is represented in the European Parliament by at least one of its members.
At present, many political parties operating in Europe are relatively closed, and there is little change in their leadership, which consequently weakens the role these political organisations play in ensuring the involvement of citizens in the adoption of political decisions.
By reforming the regulation of party activities, the European Union could use this opportunity to promote the revitalisation of European political parties.
I believe that when establishing new unified rules on party activities and funding, we should include democracy criteria regarding the formation of parties' internal structures and specific democratic safeguards.
I believe that the idea of asking the Commission to propose a draft statute for European political parties, in accordance with the TFEU, is correct.
I advocate, along with the rapporteur, that we need changes to the financial regulations governing the funding of European parties and political foundations, and that funding must be allocated in full at the start of the year.
It is a sentiment shared by all European citizens and, at this level, whether you are pro-Europe or against the integration of Europe changes nothing.
There is an urgent need to re-appropriate European issues.
We need to give a clear status to these new spaces for debate and, finally, a genuine perspective to the activity of political parties at European level in the forthcoming elections.
Many of the proposals on the direct funding and status of European political parties conflict with the national parties.
After their election, thanks to their national parties, they can form European groups, but while pursuing their party interests domestically.
This report does not support this idea.
The development of European political parties is vital for generating public interest in EU affairs.
Devising a reform package for European political parties as a means of mobilising the democratic energies of individual and organised citizens is not an easy task, not least due to the EU's systemic complexity.
Strengthening European political parties is a means of enhancing participatory governance in the EU and, ultimately, of strengthening democracy.
Creating a safe and transparent environment for the operation and funding of European political parties marks a first step.
We need a European space where political parties actively put citizens at the heart of the European Union's concerns and help them in their everyday life, at a time when it is noticeable that European citizens are detached from the Union.
European political parties, which play an important role in shaping democracy in the EU, should be given a common and uniform legal statute.
European political parties should be bodies with legal personality, in order to be capable of overcoming the difference between European political parties and European authorities, from the perspective of taxation procedures.
in writing. - UKIP is, in principle, against European political parties.
Nonetheless, it must be clearly understood that UKIP reserves the right to participate in a European political party so that it, too, might benefit from those taxpayers' money, the better to represent the many millions of Britons and other people across the continent who oppose the European Union and all its works and whose voice is stifled by the ruling political class.
European parties, with their own ideological and political attributes, must acquire a clear legal personality.
However, I have reservations about certain points in the report, in so far as they might be used as restrictions on the free and independent organisation and action of European parties.
The rules governing the political and legal recognition of parties and their necessary funding must facilitate their action, so that they can freely create alternative policies, which is the very essence of democracy.
At European level, political parties have a vital role in creating European political awareness and expressing the will of the EU public.
However, European political parties are only umbrella organisations for national parties, and will not ultimately be in direct contact with voters in the Member States.
Strengthening European political parties also involves their adoption of a political, legal and fiscal statute, including autonomous legal personality founded directly on EU law.
Better regulation of European political parties, and their associated political foundations, will also bring benefits in terms of transparency.
Transparent funding is a key element of supporting democratic values and promoting good governance, with the expectation that this can also help to reinforce public confidence in political parties.
This report argues that political parties at European level must be the place for 'expressing the will of the citizens of the Union'.
The record of abstention beaten at every single European election should serve to remind us that the supranational level is not that of a fair and effective democracy.
The growing sense of estrangement and lack of interest on the part of the citizens are palpable, but the European Parliament and, more generally, the European institutions, are determined to create a European political space from scratch.
I voted in favour of this report as it advocates safe and transparent standards for the functioning and funding of European political parties within the EU.
The future European statute of political parties will be an important step towards greater public participation, a more representative democracy, and a Europe that is closer to its people.
We believe that the current rules are reasonable.
National elections or referendums should be decided without the involvement of parties that are financed via the EU's budget or other external funding.
These are, for that very reason, democratic instruments representing the legitimate interests of the public, both closely, such as through local government, and at a more distant level, through their representation in the European institutions.
It is no coincidence that the Members of the European Parliament are organised into political parties, and thus seek to represent the interests of the public in line with an agenda of priorities defined by their political orientation.
Political parties and their associated political foundations are vital instruments in a parliamentary democracy.
The Treaty of Lisbon provides for this role to be carried out by the political parties and their respective foundations, with a view to creating a European polis, a political space at EU level, and a European democracy, of which the European Citizens' Initiative is a key constitutive element.
European political parties and political foundations have become indispensable actors in the political life of the EU, particularly as they shape and make known the positions of the different 'political families'.
I agree with the criteria for accessing funding, in particular, the percentage of revenue and the representativeness of the respective political party.
The participation of political parties at European level in referendum campaigns in the Member States is one such consideration, even if the subject of the referendum is directly linked to issues concerning the EU.
These considerations add up to a position of principle that is unfavourable to the creation of political parties with European scope.
We voted against this report because of our opposition to the creation of Europe-wide political parties, and of our position on the capitalist integration of the EU.
However, in the specific case of this report, there are also other reasons for our vote against.
For example, we believe that it is wrong for political parties at European level to participate in referendum campaigns in the Member States, even if the subject of the referendum is directly linked to issues concerning the EU.
We also disagree with the proposal made that European political parties should begin a process of examining the conditions for the direct recruitment of individual citizens as members.
I am also against tightening the rules governing the creation of these parties, with a corresponding easing of the financial conditions to which they are subject, and against any link between the recognition of the 'European' status of a party and its access to public funding.
Finally, the right of political parties at European level to participate in referendum campaigns on European affairs is, in my view, ambiguous.
I, personally, imagined unacceptable interference in referenda on accession or on the adoption of the euro by a country, referenda associated with the right of each nation, and each nation alone, to self-determination.
I voted against this report.
Finally, their funding will be more transparent, which can only increase their legitimacy, and I welcome this.
I agreed with this report because creating a safe and transparent environment for the functioning and funding of European political parties is a deeply democratic act.
The fact that specific rules will be adopted, enabling this objective to be achieved, has two consequences.
On the one hand, up-to-date and public information will be provided quickly on the formation of European political parties and their situation in Europe.
Citizens will be aware that when participating in the work of a European political party, they must follow European Union law and that political parties have rights and obligations.
On the other hand, the European statute of European political parties paves the way for the creation of a transnational party system.
There has been a substantial increase in the funding for European political parties and foundations in recent years.
With these words, Article 10(4) of the Treaty on European Union sets out the role that European political parties must have.
I believe that the European political parties can and should contribute more effectively to the political and social life of Europe in order to increase public interest in the internal affairs of the Union.
In light of these considerations, it is vital that European political parties be given recognised legal status, and single, uniform tax policies which allow true convergence of organisation.
Indeed, I believe that the statute on political parties at a European level could pave the way not only towards the involvement of the population, but also to the creation of a truly transnational party system which would be vital to guaranteeing greater democracy in Europe.
Without calling into question the latter, which are essential for the democratic aspirations of the Union, we must endeavour to foster the emergence of a European supranational debate as the only means that will enable Europe to move forward.
The report by Mrs Giannakou specifically aims to promote the establishment of political parties at European level, and it therefore had my backing.
It calls on the Commission to implement legislation creating a status for such bodies, facilitating their funding and enabling them to integrate better into the daily political life of citizens.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which I see as a major step towards creating a legal statute governing political parties at the European level.
This status is necessary for convergence in relation to the budget and the organisation of the political parties at European level and their foundations.
Foundations affiliated to political parties contribute to debates on political issues of general interest.
The financial rules are clarified in order to have reliable and transparent information on their funding and functioning.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that, if it can be said that there is no democracy in our countries without political parties, it should also be said that there will not be true European democracy without European political parties.
As I would argue that the funding of national parties by businesses and their lobbies should be completely banned, with public funding guaranteed by the state, I also believe that European parties should be funded from the EU budget and barred from receiving 'donations' from legal persons.
Advocating secure and transparent standards for the functioning and funding of European political parties in the EU is of the utmost importance.
The future European statute of political parties will have a big role in making this a reality, as it will generate greater public participation, a more representative democracy and a Europe that is closer to its people.
in writing. - I am convinced that creating a safe and transparent environment for the function and the funding of European political parties is a deeply democratic act.
We need a space, a European space, of acting political parties that bring citizens into the core of the Union and help them in their everyday life.
The adoption of specific rules makes this target possible and it is twofold: on the one hand, it provides current, quick and public information on the formation of the European political parties and their common European status.
On the other hand, the European statute of European political parties paves the way for the creation of a transnational party system.
At Wednesday's sitting, the European Parliament adopted the Giannakou report on the status and rules regarding the funding of political parties at European level.
In addition, political parties are a platform for dialogue with the citizens, which takes place through numerous seminars and political discussions.
By introducing the possibility of funding European political parties, the Maastricht Treaty and the Treaty of Nice enabled them to operate independently of parliamentary groups.
I would like to express the hope that the document which has been adopted will lead to a significant improvement in the position of political parties at European level.
I voted in favour of this important resolution, because political parties at European level are an important factor for integration within the Union, which aims to create a European polis, a political space at EU level, and a European democracy.
European political parties have to cooperate closely with their members in national and regional parties, and therefore they should enjoy favourable working conditions and should be allocated funding.
It is necessary to ensure maximum transparency and financial controls for European political parties financed by the general budget of the European Union.
Only strong and effectively functioning European political parties can help to connect EU institutions with citizens more strongly, and therefore the Commission should propose a draft statute for European political parties as a matter of urgency.
EU citizens should be given the opportunity to vote not only for national, but for European lists.
European political parties and political foundations are gaining increasing importance in the political life of the European Union.
However, it is still difficult for them to acquire more popularity and support because they are merely umbrella organisations for national parties and not directly in touch with the electorate in the Member States.
We must improve the conditions in which European political parties operate, because this would equate to an improvement in the EU's representative government and the strengthening of democracy.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that it is an important step - probably the first one - towards strengthening political parties at European level.
I agree with the rapporteur that we need to establish a legal framework for the activities of European political parties as a matter of urgency.
The funding of European political parties' work must be transparent.
To ensure this, it should be made possible to carry out checks on funding.
The democratic system on which the EU is based focuses on the citizen as a reference point around which all decisions are made.
The citizen is represented by the political parties which, in order to act as guarantors of the will of their constituents, must adopt common rules of transparency and uniformity.
That is why I voted in favour of implementing the regulations on the statute and the financing of political parties at a European level.
An EU regulation of this scale offers the opportunity to obtain extensive information on European political parties, guarantees against internal corruption and stimulates citizens' interest, facilitating their participation in EU politics.
This report is based on the assumption that the development of European political parties is critical to the mobilisation of the public interest in EU matters.
Designing a reform package for European political parties as a means of mobilising the democratic energies of individual and organised citizens is a difficult but noble task, particularly due to the EU's systemic complexity.
However, this disadvantage can be converted into an advantage if the 'constructive mission' of the European political parties is clarified, along with the way in which clear and serious dialogue on their political development can contribute to the emergence of a more pluralistic democracy.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that creating a safe and transparent environment for the functioning and funding of European political parties promotes the quality of European democracy.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that, if it can be said that there is no democracy in our countries without political parties, it should also be said that there will not be true European democracy without European political parties.
As I would argue that the funding of national parties by businesses and their lobbies should be completely banned, with public funding guaranteed by the state, I also believe that European parties should be funded from the EU budget and barred from receiving 'donations' from legal persons.
The deepening of representative democracy and the creation of a political space at EU level undoubtedly strengthen the role of the European political parties and their respective foundations.
The adoption of a common and uniform legal status for all European political parties and the foundations that are associated with them, founded directly on EU law, represents a very important first step in this direction.
I am supporting the report by my fellow Member Mrs Giannakou.
The European political parties must be permitted - and even encouraged - to participate in European referendum campaigns.
Furthermore, the financial rules applying to the political parties must be modified.
in writing. - In favour.
European political party development is critical for the activation of public interest in EU affairs.
Underlying discourses on European party regulation is a deeper concern of how to co-constitute a transnational civic space composed of free and equal citizens, and what a collective founding, in the form of a 'civic contract' among diverse peoples, might entail for the future of integration.
Designing a reform package for European political parties as a means of mobilising the democratic energies of individual and organised citizens is not an easy task, not least due to the EU's systemic complexity.
But this may be turned into an advantage, should one clarify the 'constitutive mission' of European political parties and how an informed and principled dialogue on their political development can facilitate the emergence of a plural demos, whose members can direct their democratic claims to, and via, the central institutions.
Strengthening European political parties is a means of enhancing participatory governance in the EU and, finally, strengthening democracy.
We must foster the creation of a European space for political parties' activities which puts citizens at the heart of the European Union and helps them in their daily lives.
On the other hand, the European statute of political parties at the European level opens the way for the creation of a transnational party system.
The approval of this resolution is a first, indispensable step towards the greater participation of citizens in Europe.
Obviously, I share the view that political parties and political foundations related thereto are essential tools of a parliamentary democracy.
However, I voted against this report in the final vote, in order to show my total disagreement with the rejection of Amendment 10.
In terms of the funding and donations scheme, this amendment stripped legal entities and businesses of the right to make annual donations of up to EUR 25 000.
The fact that the European Parliament is allowing this unfortunate practice to continue will open the door to companies and lobbying organisations exerting a strong influence over political parties and European foundations by granting them financial support.
However, it is important to put people at the heart of these policies and to give Parliament greater political importance in matters related to the Single Market.
These three reports were drawn up following the proposal for a Single Market Act published by the European Commission.
The objective of Michel Barnier, Commissioner for the Internal Market, is to relaunch the Single Market but, above all, to bring it closer to the citizen.
The Single Market Act must be seen as an opportunity to demonstrate to citizens that European integration, and the Single Market in particular, is being carried out in their interest, not against them.
Guaranteeing access to a basic banking service - or, more generally, safeguarding the quality and accessibility of services that are essential for our fellow citizens - is a step in this direction.
The European Commission must play a greater coordinating role, and the President of the Commission should be given the mandate to coordinate and supervise the relaunch of the Single Market, in close cooperation with the President of the European Council and the competent authorities in the Member States.
I agreed with this report because I believe that it is necessary to improve political coordination at all levels in order to properly implement Single Market priorities aimed at boosting economic growth, competitiveness, the social market economy and sustainability in the Union.
Local and regional authorities should have greater involvement in creating the Single Market, while dialogue with social partners and civil society will help restore confidence in the Single Market.
I, too, believe that the use of regulations instead of directives would create a clearer regulatory environment and reduce implementation costs.
I also believe that it is useful to carry out an assessment of the state of the Single Market at every spring session of the European Council.
I voted in favour of this report because, in my opinion, in order to successfully revitalise the EU Single Market, it is especially important to provide for and strategically plan not just specific measures to achieve the objective, but also effective ways of using those measures.
This would allow the importance of the completion of the internal market to be stressed throughout the European Union.
Another measure that is equally important, in my opinion, is the strengthening of dialogue with social partners and civil society.
When drawing up Single Market legislation, which could have an impact on the labour market, social partners should always be actively involved in preparatory work.
Finally, I completely agree that simply adopting measures is not enough if we want to bring Europe closer to its citizens.
It is very important to constantly inform European citizens about the achievements of the internal market and the benefits it provides so that they know what rights and opportunities they are offered by the European Union and one of its cornerstones - the common internal market.
I voted in favour of this report.
Governance and partnership are two key issues in reviving the Single Market.
Parliament's role in drafting legislation on the Single Market, in particular, can be further strengthened.
The Treaty of Lisbon has already made a great contribution in this direction, but it is not enough.
I think, in particular, of those files on which Parliament has expressed a position which is strong and clear but divergent from that of the Council and governments of the Member States.
The strengthening of European economic governance, coordination for the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy and the relaunch of the Single Market are key to revitalising the European economy.
The Single Market should be competitive, making a positive contribution to the daily lives of workers, students, pensioners and the public in general, along with businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
One of the main challenges to relaunching the Single Market is ensuring political leadership, commitment and coordination.
I believe that there can only be good governance of the Single Market if there is good quality and up-to-date information on how it functions.
This requires the use of suitable instruments for monitoring and evaluating Single Market policies in order to link the different stages of the policy cycle, from conception to implementation.
It is also important for the Member States to become engaged in the assessment and monitoring of Single Market rules.
The objectives are clear: strengthening free competition, and speeding up the process of liberalisation and privatisation of various sectors of economic activity and social life.
The report's rhetoric seeks to obscure its real intentions, and the claim that it is seeking to strengthen 'a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment' is symptomatic.
The conclusions of the Council of 25 March, and the 'Euro Plus Pact', adopted there, are illustrative of the war being openly waged against workers, young people and pensioners, and, in the end, against the general public.
It is thus aimed at strengthening free competition and speeding up the process of liberalisation and privatisation, although the whole document is phrased in a way that seeks to obscure its real intentions, stating, for example, that the intention is to strengthen 'a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment', and adding that it therefore aims to place companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and Europeans at the heart of the Single Market.
In fact, however, you only have to read the conclusions of the Council on 25 March, and particularly the 'Euro Plus Pact', to see clearly what is intended: war against the world of work, collective bargaining, trade unions, retirees and their right to pensions.
The key objectives are to speed up the process of concentration and accumulation of capital to the benefit of monopolist groups, ending any attempt to protect SMEs, workers and public services.
The report presented to us by our fellow Member from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) (PPE) has some findings which are certainly shared by our group, such as the need for greater involvement of the regions and for more transparency.
Of all the reports on the Single Market that have been adopted today, and against which I voted, only the Kalniete report stands out somewhat from the pack.
This report is of great importance, because it concerns the question of how the internal market, which is one of the EU's main priorities, can bring increased benefits for European citizens and businesses by ensuring that those involved work more efficiently together.
In addition to dialogue and partnership between the stakeholders, such as the national parliaments, the local and regional authorities and the social partners, and increased coordination, there is a need for the existing regulations to be simplified and implemented more efficiently by the Member States.
In the context of this report, I welcome the recognition of the important role played by EURES (the European Job Mobility Portal), in particular, with regard to making the free movement of employees easier, because this contact point is of major significance, especially in border regions.
The measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are to be provided with clear information about the internal market, are also extremely important.
in writing. - The Kalniete report rightly emphasises the importance of authorities below the Member State government level in implementing rules relating to the Single Market.
I fully support this sentiment and consider that, when Scotland wins back her independence, it will be appropriate for those levels of government below the Scottish national government to be fully involved in implementing Single Market rules.
I voted for this report because it proposes adopting a directive that would involve national governments and regional authorities more in the drawing up of a new directive, through consultation with employers, unions and other associations.
It is proposed that partnership with local and regional authorities needs to be broadened from cohesion policy to Single Market policies.
Single market rules are very often implemented and enforced by Member States' authorities at regional or local levels.
The experience with the implementation of the Services Directive has clearly shown that involvement of regional and local authorities can be extremely important for ensuring that Single Market legislation is properly implemented and applied.
The dialogue and partnership element of Single Market governance should be strengthened through stronger involvement by national parliaments.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon offers a window of opportunity for the national parliaments to engage with Single Market rules throughout the legislative cycle and participate in joint activities with the European Parliament.
This could speed up the adoption of subsequent transposition measures at Member State level.
All measures aimed at the development and integration of Member States are worthy of attention.
There is no doubt that the current system of economic cooperation - the European Union Single Market - makes life easier for all citizens, among other things, by lifting trade barriers and enabling the free flow of people.
The President of the Council of the European Union, working together with the President of the European Commission, would be authorised to coordinate and supervise this process of revitalisation while maintaining, however, the involvement of the Member States.
Partnership as a factor in managing the Single Market should be based on dialogue with the parliaments of Member States, and also on cooperation with local and regional authorities.
Working together would help in implementing directives properly and would produce the expected results.
I support the final form of the report on governance and partnership in the Single Market, and especially its key priorities.
A better functioning internal market is also promised from the more broadly conceived, more interactive and more transparent public consultations of the draft legislation.
If we can persuade Member States to publish comparison tables for legislation relating to the Single Market, there is a chance that we will be able to reduce the deficit in the implementation of directives relating to the Single Market to 0.5% in the case of legislation not yet adopted, and to 0.5% in the case of legislation incorrectly implemented.
However, the fundamental precondition for success is for the Commission to take a more active approach towards enforcing the transposition of EU law than is currently the case, for example, with the directive on services on the internal market.
I have voted for the adoption of this report.
The report I have supported embodies many of the principles which I personally consider foundational for the European Union.
I refer, in general terms, to the type of dialogue that must be established as soon as possible between citizens and institutions at different levels.
This dialogue takes on specific and diverse connotations in relation to the life of all of us Europeans, but it becomes much more relevant when one considers the creation of a Single Market aimed at revitalising the entire European economy and improving communications between legislative bodies and the direct beneficiaries.
Last October, the Commissioner for the Internal Market and Services, Michel Barnier, presented his 'Single Market Act', a collection of 50 proposals for boosting growth in the European Union.
The European Parliament was then invited to give its view on the various parts of this paper.
Part 3 of the Act calls on the Member States and the institutions to implement the measures necessary to bring the citizens and the Single Market closer together.
I voted for Parliament's resolution because it welcomes the commitments made by the Commission and highlights the importance of improving the clarity of European texts or of using its power to impose sanctions in order to oblige the Member States to respect their commitments.
in writing. - I voted for this report which states that one of the key challenges in relaunching the Single Market is ensuring political leadership, commitment and coordination.
The 50 proposals for relaunching the Single Market encompass numerous portfolios, crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the Commission, and touch upon the jurisdiction of various committees in the European Parliament.
In the Council, the Single Market Act is furthermore split into different Council configurations whose role and effectiveness vary a great deal.
in writing. - (RO) Member States must adopt a firm joint stance in order to improve the functioning of the European Single Market and prevent the return of economic protectionism, which would result in fragmentation of the internal market and affect competitiveness.
The aim of the European Single Market Act is to develop administrative cooperation between Member States, also by means of expanding the role of regional authorities with a view to establishing coordination at their level.
The region's prosperity is determined firstly by the productivity of its inhabitants and their skills, in addition to the level of capital investment and their innovative capacity.
However, there are major differences even between regions in the same Member State.
I think that adapting the European Single Market to the needs of European citizens is achieved primarily through improving worker mobility.
Specialist workers and those who have retrained for another career can meet the market's specific needs much more easily, thanks to their high level of mobility.
in writing. - (FR) The economic and financial crisis has demonstrated the failure of euro-liberalism, the dogmatic framework of the Single Market.
This report is harmful for the European economy and shows contempt for popular sovereignty.
The Single Market has always been one of the pillars of Europe's economic development.
I believe that one of the key challenges in relaunching the Single Market is ensuring political leadership, commitment and coordination.
These 50 proposals to relaunch the Single Market encompass numerous portfolios, crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the European Commission and touch upon the jurisdictions of various committees in the European Parliament.
However, it is important for the Member States to establish their own priorities and develop their own agenda in line with the priorities of the Single Market.
It is important for us to strengthen the internal market, in particular, during an economic crisis, when the impact of the crisis is being felt.
This can be guaranteed primarily with the support of small and medium-sized businesses, which are one of the main engines within the national economies.
As the rapporteur has spoken out in favour of increased supervision and assessment of internal market policies, I have not voted for the report.
It is not clear how this can be achieved and what consequences it would have for the individual states.
I have voted against the report on governance and partnership in the Single Market because I find it too unbalanced.
We should not believe that the great Single Market is the solution to all of Europe's problems, as it appears to be in some parts of this report.
I believe that some features and peculiarities of the various Member States should be taken into account.
Not all countries are the same and a measure that may be useful in one country might possibly cause serious damage in another Member State.
We still have to remember all the problems which the infamous Services Directive has caused and continues to cause, at least in Italy, for example, among itinerant tradespeople and seaside businesses.
I would not like these problems to recur with increasing frequency.
I voted in favour of this resolution because the establishment and operation of governance and partnership processes is one of the main factors ensuring the effective functioning of the market.
Attention is drawn to the fact that partnership needs to be broadened from cohesion policy to Single Market policies.
I believe that national parliaments and regional authorities must be more involved in drawing up the directive.
This is very important for ensuring that EU legislation is properly implemented and applied in the Member States.
In order to take account of the needs and interests of society, there should be consultation with employers, unions and other associations.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree with the key points on governance and partnership of the Single Market that are set out in it.
In particular, I agree with the need to strengthen political leadership and partnership.
Indeed, one of the key challenges in relaunching the Single Market is ensuring political leadership, commitment and coordination.
The 50 proposals for relaunching the Single Market encompass numerous portfolios, crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the Commission and touch upon the jurisdictions of various committees in the European Parliament.
Strengthening political dialogue, commitment and coordination is essential to ensuring the relaunch of the Single Market.
A competitive European Single Market without obstacles should be finalized in order to bring concrete advantages for employees, students, pensioners and citizens in general, and for businesses, particularly SMEs.
Good governance and legal certainty are crucial to achieving the Single Market's economic and social objectives, including the free movement of workers, promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, a high level of education and vocational training, and the portability of pensions.
The European executive must continue to promote a one-stop shop, integrating all existing services into one single access point and providing citizens and businesses with information and support concerning their rights in the Single Market, as well as practical information on national rules and procedures.
The European Commission has to incorporate fundamental rights into all Single Market legislation.
Implementation of the fundamental economic freedoms of the Single Market must not affect collective bargaining rights and the right to strike as defined by national legislation.
The full realisation of a competitive Single Market, without barriers, and with definite advantages for the daily lives of workers, students, pensioners and the public in general, along with businesses, is essential to relaunching the European economy and stimulating growth, competitiveness and sustainability in the EU.
All stakeholders - the public, the European institutions, the Member States - should therefore make an effort to ensure the relaunch of the Single Market, and coordinate their respective activities closely and effectively, particularly in order to improve the transposition, implementation and application of the respective rules, to develop a clearer regulatory framework, to ensure greater involvement by the regional and local authorities in this process, to promote open, transparent and regular dialogue with their social partners and civil society, to strengthen administrative cooperation between the Member States, and to develop tools that enable the functioning of the Internal Market to be monitored properly.
Following the Monti report on relaunching the Single Market, the Commission has submitted the paper 'Towards a Single Market Act', drawn up under the leadership of Commissioner Barnier, for public consultation.
That is why it is important for Parliament to look at its priorities and to send a clear message to the Commission beforehand.
This 'governance and partnership' resolution, which I supported, calls for stronger political leadership, an improvement in the implementation of legislation relating to the Single Market, and the introduction of tools for good governance (reducing the transposition deficit, alleviating administrative burdens, partnership with local authorities, stronger involvement of national Parliaments, dialogue with civil society, and so on).
in writing. - In favour.
The rapporteur has suggested that one of the key challenges in relaunching the Single Market is ensuring political leadership, commitment and coordination.
The 50 proposals for relaunching the Single Market encompass numerous portfolios, crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the Commission and touch upon jurisdiction of various committees in the European Parliament.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe that the improvement of the single market, through the active support of Member States and all stakeholders, is essential for the European Union.
I am in full agreement with the rapporteur when she considers that merely enhancing the role of the Council, as the institution leading the implementation of the single market, is not enough.
We need a more targeted approach to the choice of legislative instruments, which, in addition to the Institution, would give the President of the European Council the mandate to coordinate the relaunch of the single market, in close cooperation with the President of the Commission.
In fact, we must ensure top-level political guidance and invite Member States to set their own priorities and develop their own agenda in accordance with the priorities of the single market in order to take true ownership of its implementation.
in writing. - I supported the twelve measures contained in the Single Market Act, in particular, focusing on the digital agenda and innovative procurement.
It is imperative to create a European space where the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) can create added economic value, as suggested in the Commission communication - The Single Market Act.
I believe it is essential to support Europe's SMEs, along with the full liberalisation of the free movement of people, goods and services, so as to maximise the gains of the Single Market.
A more competitive Single Market provides a perfect opportunity to stimulate economic growth in European countries affected by the crisis.
The economic and social objectives of the Single Market - the free movement of workers, combating social exclusion and pension portability - are something worth fighting for.
The Single Market's management structures must be as simple as possible, because otherwise, the effectiveness and transparency of the Single Market will suffer.
This would help solve urgent problems implementing specific directives and also establish mutual trust between the Member States' institutions and a more effective Single Market in the long term.
I feel it is important for the relaunch of the Single Market to promote job creation and to create a business friendly environment.
A successful Single Market should encourage entrepreneurship and remove obstacles hindering the establishment of new SMEs.
I am very pleased at the adoption of three resolutions on relaunching the Single Market which strengthen governance and the role of businesses and growth, as well as that of citizens, in this policy.
However, it would not have been enough for us just to take stock, as Europeans are expecting specific proposals from us to respond to future challenges.
In stating our priorities, we have drawn up a collection of balanced measures embodying a clear political, economic and social model.
In relation to this particular resolution on governance and partnership, I wished to vote in favour of a report which gives the project a political dimension.
In order to prevent future delays in the implementation of national measures, the instruments provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon will be used and the national parliaments will be included in the entire legislative process at a European level.
Its aim is to guarantee the proper implementation of the measures at a regional and local level, where they will have the greatest impact on the citizens, and to ensure that the intention behind the preparation and adoption of the directive at a European level is made clear to the European citizens.
I voted in favour of Mrs Kalniete's report.
It is important to focus on the revitalisation of the Single Market, focusing on activities with a high potential for growth and job creation that will provide concrete and immediately visible results for European citizens.
I also think it is right to focus on streamlining legislation to make the EU's internal market more accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, establish renewed EU action for the liberalisation of regulated professions and for the mutual recognition of qualifications.
I am voting for this report because, amongst other progressive measures, it introduces a link between the Single Market Act and the Europe 2020 strategy, it mentions the need to protect the rights of workers, it focuses on job creation, and it allows the portability of pensioners' rights.
These three reports were drawn up following the proposal for a Single Market Act published by the European Commission.
The objective of Michel Barnier, Commissioner for the Internal Market, is to relaunch the Single Market, but, above all, to bring it closer to the citizen.
The Single Market Act must be seen as an opportunity to demonstrate to citizens that European integration, and the Single Market in particular, is being carried out in their interest, not against them.
Guaranteeing access to a basic banking service - or, more generally, safeguarding the quality and accessibility of services that are essential for our fellow citizens - is a step in this direction.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report.
The fragmentation of the internal market is reducing EU citizens' confidence in it because they are unable to take advantage of their freedoms.
The Commission's communication presents a toolbox, which should help to achieve a Single Market that is integrated and functions without obstacles, and which could boost Europe's economic recovery and its competitiveness.
I would like to highlight one particularly important aspect - the importance of the creation of a single energy market.
A single energy market is especially important for EU competitiveness both within the EU and externally.
The creation of such a market would help reduce external dependence and make energy prices more affordable, fair and competitive for our citizens and businesses.
Legislative and non-legislative initiatives on energy should aim at safeguarding the supply of energy through a diversified energy network, new infrastructures of renewable energy and coordinated research and development on new energy sources.
A real deepening of the Single Market benefiting citizens, business and European competitiveness must be strengthened by creating infrastructure projects that have added value for the whole of Europe, and which are funded and managed at EU level in order to ensure our energy independence and security.
European citizens also need more information, not to mention simpler, more comprehensible and more clearly communicated legislation.
Hence, this report on a Single Market for Europeans, adopted today in response to the Single Market Act put forward by the Commission last October.
Alongside the reports dealing with businesses, growth and the governance of the Single Market, this report addresses the expectations of citizens, consumers and users of public services.
Among the ideas mentioned are greater transparency of banking charges, but also real recognition of professional qualifications and portability of pension rights.
The negotiations allowed us to include a reference to the horizontal social clause which was established by the Treaty of Lisbon and which now has to be transposed concretely into legislation.
Finally, the report once again takes up the concept, advocated by Commissioner Barnier, of a 'toolbox' for services of general interest - in particular, social services of general interest - which are currently a major concern of citizens and service providers in the national territories.
Although it is non-legislative, this report has the merit of including citizens in the well-known necessity of completing the Single Market.
In 2010, the Commission adopted a proposal to renew the confidence of European citizens in the Single Market with the objective of reinforcing a 'highly competitive social market economy, aiming for full employment and social progress'.
In my view, efforts to implement the Single Market have focused on the market itself and its organisation, while ignoring the concerns and rights of citizens, workers and consumers.
Particularly essential is the establishment of a single energy market, which should be in a position to encourage European competitiveness by reducing energy prices and dependence on foreign sources.
Legislative initiatives on energy should be implemented in close coordination between the Commission, Member States and the relevant sectors of industry.
Another fundamental issue is transparency in bank charges, costs and the real conditions for mortgage loans, in order to protect consumers and investors and ensure access to credit for individuals and small businesses.
Finally, I believe that any true widening of the Single Market for citizens, businesses and Europe's competitiveness will be founded on the ability to develop EU-funded infrastructure projects.
I share the view that a functioning Single Market is the key driver which will enable the European Union to reach its full potential in terms of competitiveness, smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, and the creation of more and better jobs.
The Single Market strategy should strengthen social welfare and workers' rights and ensure fair working conditions for all citizens.
I voted in favour of this report because, in my opinion, in order to restore European citizens' confidence in the Single Market and support for the idea of the European Union, it is necessary to take further action to strengthen citizens' social rights and their implementation.
The report also stresses the need to strengthen the rights of citizens as consumers and as public service users, and the need to organise appropriate information campaigns, during which they would be informed about their rights and freedoms.
The communication proposal for restoring European citizens' trust in the Single Market, drafted by the Commission, is slightly unclear when examining it in correlation with the EU 2020 strategy.
In these circumstances, more consistency, greater effectiveness and better governance are required for a renewed Single Market to foster, within the EU, economic growth, employment and competitiveness, as well as respect for the rights of citizens and consumers.
The Council and Member States have to support together the European and national commitment to deepening and strengthening the Single Market.
This point is clearly stated in the document's introduction.
On the other hand, the proposals to attain this objective are too weak to achieve it.
The reports on this subject, which we have approved here today, represent, in my opinion, an important step towards an integrated and functional Single Market.
The Commission has made 50 proposals to allow us to work and trade together in a better way.
I voted in favour of this report which aims to ensure effective economic freedom, while protecting the right to work, the full implementation of the principle of equal pay and free movement of workers (which also includes full recognition of professions within the Member States).
I therefore agree with the priorities identified by the rapporteur, such as strengthening the supervision of the European market, the establishment of an action plan to combat piracy and counterfeiting and the development of a communications policy which will highlight the activities carried out by the EU.
I voted for this report but abstained on some amendments as they were part of the negotiated package on the compromise amendments.
We voted in favour of the report on a Single Market for Europeans.
The report contains many important proposals for the development of the Single Market.
A particular priority for us is to ensure that labour market rights are respected in connection with revitalising a more competitively oriented Single Market.
However, the report also contains proposals to call on the Commission to identify and eliminate the tax obstacles faced by European citizens and to further develop immigration policy in respect of migrants and seasonal workers.
In our opinion, both of these are national matters.
A number of amendments to the report were also tabled, the spirit of which we support, but we do not believe that this report warrants this type of amendment.
I agree with this report.
The creation of a Single Market has always been one of the main objectives of the process of European integration and, today more than ever, we feel the need to strengthen it through concrete measures which aim to address three crucial aspects.
We must strengthen the single European market in order to make it highly efficient and competitive and we must renew it within the framework of EU policies in order to combat the effects of the financial crisis.
I thoroughly agree with the proposals made by the European Parliament on strengthening consumer and business confidence.
What emerges as a top priority for the realisation of this project is the adoption of urgent measures to facilitate the mobility of citizens which would make the market more open to European workers and promote full employment.
We can no longer consider developing a Single Market without greater citizen involvement.
For example, improving access to banking services and mortgages for the protection of investors, consumers and financial institutions, or resolving the outstanding issues concerning the free movement of workers, such as the mutual recognition of professional qualifications.
Furthermore, I welcomed the fact that the proposals from both the Grech and Monti reports were mentioned again by the rapporteur.
In addition, as shadow rapporteur for my political group for the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the report 'A Single Market for Europeans', I tabled an amendment which requested that Member States still applying restrictions on their labour markets to workers from the new Member States lift these barriers for the sake of the obvious economic benefits, especially during an economic crisis.
Too often, the European Union is distant from its citizens, its policies seem far removed, and the European project lacks meaning in the eyes of Europeans.
If the Single Market is only to be a conduit for rampant liberalisation, deregulating public services, social systems and workers' rights by submitting them to fierce competition, this is a cause for concern, even though it has and may have several positive specific consequences for consumers and in the everyday lives of our fellow citizens.
The integration of the Single Market must now go hand in hand with the advances of a social Europe, which is needed more than ever at a time when the recession continues to affect Europeans.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the 'Single market for Europeans' report.
It is the duty of the European institutions to facilitate a highly developed, highly competitive social market economy that will seek to create full employment and stimulate social progress.
Most importantly, this report reaffirms citizens' fundamental social rights in the field of collective action, labour law, employment protection and industrial restructuring in line with primary European law.
I am in favour of the short-term strategies suggested in this report, including the enhancement of European market surveillance, the creation of a single integrated mortgage market and the removal of tax obstacles and double taxation.
I would like to also welcome the proposal to create an action plan to reduce illegal counterfeiting of goods.
I voted in favour of this report as it contributes to the idea of a Single Market that is friendlier and more attractive to the European public.
The link with the conclusions of the Council on 25 March and, above all, with the newly renamed 'Euro Plus Pact', is clear.
Germany originally thought this up and dubbed it the 'Competitiveness Pact', and it declares war on workers, on their social rights and on the people in general, whilst denouncing the dependence of countries that have weaker economies and where civilisation is truly moving backward.
We therefore voted against, as we did the two other reports.
Thus, it appears to be in line with the conclusions of the Council on 25 March, and particularly the 'Euro Plus Pact', which declares war on the world of work and social rights by insisting on speeding up liberalisation.
The key objectives are to speed up the process of concentration and accumulation of capital to the benefit of monopolist groups, ending any attempt to protect SMEs, workers and public services.
In his report, our Portuguese fellow Member has included recommendations we support such as the need to move to a Single Market that favours consumer rights issues and especially making customs checks of goods from third countries a priority.
This report concerns the 19 initiatives proposed by the Commission which will put European citizens at the heart of the internal market and, at the same time, will work towards a sustainable social market economy.
I particularly welcome this report, among other things, because it will benefit European citizens, especially those who live in border regions.
The proposed measures will make the everyday lives of citizens and businesses in border regions easier.
Furthermore, the report calls for fair working conditions for all Europeans and also full portability of pension rights.
These measures will make citizens the centre point of the internal market.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, which rightly highlights the need to 'respect the principles of subsidiarity and Member State sovereignty'.
It is just a pity that not all Member States are prepared to recognise where sovereignty lies.
I voted in favour of this document because there is a need to enhance European market surveillance, provide better access to basic banking services, establish a single integrated mortgage market and remove tax obstacles and double taxation.
The rapid and effective implementation of an e-commerce policy is also required in order to increase citizens' and consumers' trust while shopping online.
Furthermore, there is a need for an action plan against counterfeiting and piracy as a major preventive tool, to guarantee that goods circulating in the Single Market are safe to consume, of the appropriate standard and legal.
The Commission and the Member States should develop an effective communication policy on the Single Market Act, based on a policy audit of its tangibility to citizens.
The constituent parts in the Single Market are the people, whose rights and responsibilities should always be our priority.
Our objective is healthy and continuous development which will activate economic growth, and such growth is possible only thanks to improvements in economic and social issues and better governance.
The report on the Single Market for Europeans contains many positive proposals, such as support for the mobility of citizens or elimination of the dual taxation of European citizens, but it also contains many proposals which bear the stamp of over-regulation and which would ultimately put a brake on the Single Market and cause it to stagnate.
I have therefore decided to abstain from the vote on this report.
I voted in favour of this report because I am firmly convinced that the existence of a Single Market would constitute the most significant manifestation of a strong and cohesive Europe.
Promoting social enterprises, ensuring the free mobility of European citizens and promoting up-to-date banking services for everyone are but a few of the focal points on which we must concentrate our ideas, resources and projects.
This would be an important step towards making the role of education and training more tangible in an increasingly open European context.
Last October, the Commissioner for the Internal Market and Services, Michel Barnier, presented his 'Single Market Act', a collection of 50 proposals for boosting growth in the European Union.
The European Parliament was then invited to give its view on the various parts of this paper.
For this reason, I supported the European Parliament resolution, which welcomes the balance given to the relation between workers' freedoms and the demands of a social economy.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
Efforts to achieve the Single Market have been concentrated on the market and its organisation and very little on concerns and rights of citizens, workers and consumers, which can explain the Europeans' reluctance and fatigue regarding the Internal Market.
This is clearly stated in the introduction of the document; however, the proposals to implement that goal are too weak to achieve it.
The stated desire to strengthen social legislation and to consider citizens' concerns, while certainly a positive thing, is inapplicable to the principle of the Single Market, given the free and non-distorted competition we see currently.
The Single Market has always been one of the pillars of Europe's economic development.
There also needs to be a reference to social rights in legislation relating to the Single Market, and measures need to be proposed to encourage mobility for the public and ensure the portability of their pension rights.
I believe that of all the measures discussed and mentioned in the document we have adopted, two aspects are particularly important: lifelong learning and reducing unemployment for young people and the establishment and functioning of a single energy market.
It is therefore important to create every opportunity for young people to properly adapt and engage in the creation of their future.
I agree with this resolution because most attention should be paid to basic social rights and to ensuring consumer rights and the free movement of workers, goods and businesses.
The Single Market must create conditions for sustainable growth and higher employment and citizens must be at its heart.
The Single Market will remain competitive if all social rights are respected.
I agree with the proposal making it impossible to work in the territory of a Member State without complying with its provisions on wages and working conditions.
We must open the labour markets in the Member States to all European workers, but the regulation of these markets must be implemented in compliance with those Member States' labour market rules, including the Scandinavian collective agreement model.
It is very important to give the Member States the right to decide for themselves whether they should grant non-EU citizens the right to reside in their territory.
For the Single Market to be socially oriented, industry must be restructured in a sustainable manner, and there must be constant consultation with social partners.
The text on the Single Market for Europeans calls for greater coordination between European institutions, Member States and businesses in order to strengthen policy, planned by the European Parliament, and to ensure it meets all the needs of the European market.
I voted in favour because I agree with the main priorities submitted to the Commission by Parliament.
The most important of these proposals is the call for measures to be taken to increase the mobility of European citizens, in particular, by publishing a Green Paper on mutual recognition of professional qualifications, including an assessment of the existing framework and, if appropriate, to propose a legislative initiative to reform this framework in 2012, at the same time assessing the feasibility and the added value of EU-wide professional identity cards and a 'European skills passport' in 2011.
This is a positive measure which is grounded in the current situation, and which is aimed at increasing mobility within the EU.
I would also stress the call for the Commission to table a legislative proposal on guaranteeing access to certain basic banking services by June 2011 and to improve the transparency and comparability of bank charges by the end of 2011, as well as the call to table a legislative proposal to remove obstacles encountered by mobile workers in order to ensure the full portability of pension rights.
It is vital to develop a European transport network through a common framework of European funding, boosting competitiveness and integration, and facilitating citizens' and workers' mobility through the provision of affordable services.
I call on Member States to eliminate barriers hampering the mobility of workers from new Member States, bearing in mind the positive impact of worker mobility in the context of the financial and economic crisis.
The full realisation of a competitive Single Market, without barriers, is essential to relaunching the European economy and stimulating growth, competitiveness and sustainability in the EU.
Efforts to relaunch and strengthen the Single Market should also focus on the concerns and rights of the public, consumers, users of public services and companies, providing them with tangible benefits with the aim of completely restoring their confidence in the European project and giving them proper information about the opportunities offered by the Internal Market.
In this context, measures should be adopted that can increase the mobility of Europeans and ensure the protection of consumers, along with strengthening social wellbeing and safeguarding workers' rights.
I voted for the Correia De Campos report, which relates to 19 initiatives on citizens and the Single Market contained in the Single Market Act proposed by Commissioner Barnier.
We should carry out this exercise once more in the light of the concerns and rights of citizens, workers and consumers.
In particular, I would like to mention here three urgent objectives so as to make the Single Market more attractive in the eyes of our fellow citizens: improving mobility (whether, for example, in terms of recognising professional qualifications or in terms of the transferable nature of pension rights for mobile workers), extending the 'roaming' regulation - in particular, proposing a limit on the retail price of roaming data transfer - and finally, the accessibility of basic banking services and the transparency and comparability of banking charges across Europe.
in writing. - In favour.
On 11 November 2010, the Commission adopted a communication proposal to renew Europeans' trust in the Single Market.
This Single Market Act will be under discussion until 28 February 2011.
The overall approach proposed by the Commission is a continuation of the report by Mario Monti to the President of the European Commission, 'A new strategy for the Single Market'.
Its purpose, in accordance with Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union, is to strengthen 'a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment' by placing companies, especially SMEs, and Europeans at the heart of the Single Market.
The Commission communication 'Towards a Single Market Act for a highly competitive social market economy' contains 50 proposals for improving our work, business and exchanges with one another', and Chapter II in particular, 'Restoring confidence by putting Europeans at the heart of the Single Market', contains 19 initiatives on the social dimension of the Single Market.
The full implementation of the Single Market is the decisive step for the European Union to fully achieve its potential in terms of intelligent, inclusive and sustainable growth.
A prosperous and dynamic internal market depends on our capacity to put forward policies which can support growth, employment and innovation.
The completion of the Single Market policy is closely linked to integration with other policy areas such as competition, industry, energy and transport.
It is important that we have entered into such a wide-ranging discussion on the common, single European market, which has been operating for 20 years, but has not fully achieved its potential.
Strongly-rooted national particularisms - and they are too strongly rooted - stand in the way of building the Single Market.
I agree with the view that the structures and processes of managing the Single Market are too complicated.
The Single Market cannot exist just for large firms, but should also be for small and medium-sized enterprises, and especially for consumers.
This report seeks to strengthen measures to put citizens at the heart of the Single Market project, focusing on 19 initiatives targeted at the needs of European citizens.
It is necessary to create a holistic approach to the Single Market which is able to respond to the democratic deficit being felt by both the European public and by public and private bodies.
Encouraging mobility through the elimination of administrative and tax barriers and the harmonisation of qualifications, investment in cross-border projects in several areas, the coordination of customs activities and monitoring of national markets, and the expansion of the Roaming Regulation, are examples of the measures that I believe are key to forging closer relations between the public and the European project.
However, it is worth emphasising once again that the social aspect of the Single Market should be complemented by political governance and by partnership between the EU and the national bodies, and by the economic dimension, which will facilitate economic growth and make Europe more competitive.
I am very pleased at the adoption of three resolutions on relaunching the Single Market which strengthen governance and the role of businesses and growth, as well as that of citizens, in this policy.
However, it would not have been enough for us just to take stock, as Europeans are expecting specific proposals from us to respond to future challenges.
In stating our priorities, we have drawn up a collection of balanced measures embodying a clear political, economic and social model.
The social protection measures addressed in the resolution are, furthermore, vital for regulating this market and for supporting the model of a social economy based on solidarity.
I am also voting for it because it promotes a Single Market for energy, by reducing energy dependence, and by creating more competitive infrastructure and prices for end consumers.
I voted in favour of this resolution on a Single Market for Enterprises and Growth.
I support the rapporteur's opinion that stimulating e-commerce and the creation of a digital Single Market represent another important aspect of the Single Market.
This is a very complex process, bearing in mind the differences in tax systems, contract law and requirements for conducting a business across the EU Member States, but efforts must continue in this area.
There is also a need to coordinate fiscal policy, because the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base would make the Single Market a better business environment for European enterprises.
In order to achieve the EU 2020 strategy goals, the Single Market must provide the conditions necessary for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
The European Union's economic governance needs to be improved in order to create the economic conditions required for businesses to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the Single Market, allowing them to grow and become more competitive.
The removal of barriers to mobility and the harmonisation of institutional regulations, with the aim of fostering integration, economic growth and European solidarity, are major benefits for the Single Market.
I voted for this report to encourage confidence in the Single Market at every level and to remove the current barriers preventing businesses from accessing the market.
A Single Market based on free and fair competition is the European Union's crucial economic reform objective and offers Europe a key competitive edge in a globalised economy.
The regulation of copyright licensing in the EU has not been resolved, which has a direct impact on counterfeiting and piracy.
It is particularly important to properly address the issue of public procurement, which accounts for 17% of EU GDP.
Hitherto, cross-border procurement has accounted for a small share of the whole public procurement market, because SMEs still have limited access to public procurement markets.
Services are a crucial sector for economic growth and employment, but the Single Market for services is still underdeveloped, particularly due to gaps and difficulties encountered by the Member States with respect to the implementation of the Services Directive.
I agree with the proposals made in the Commission communication 'Towards a Single Market Act', but I believe that in order to ensure the effective functioning of the Single Market, the Member States must improve the implementation of EU initiatives that have already been adopted, such as the Small Business Act, which would help address many of the administrative and regulatory problems that EU enterprises face today.
We should give particular care to small and medium-sized enterprises, which drive economic growth and provide significant numbers of jobs.
Innovative measures and suitable financial instruments should be used to improve their competitiveness, access to information and participation in research programmes.
The digital Single Market should also be an important part of the economy.
I also think it is essential to create an EU patent and a unified litigation system.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that in order to successfully revitalise the EU Single Market and to increase the global competitiveness of the EU as a whole and to create new jobs, it is necessary to adopt and implement many measures that would promote sustainable business growth and development.
The report also touches on a myriad of other issues affecting citizens' daily lives, the competitiveness of businesses and also the creation of new jobs in Europe - the carrying out of research and promotion of new technologies, as well as the development and expansion of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
The report also encourages cooperation between the Commission and the Member States to establish and promote the use of more effective and cleaner transport systems, as well as develop international e-commerce, also improving online payment systems.
I voted in favour of this report because it has the merit of identifying the right priorities to build a stronger Single Market, able to better meet the needs of EU companies and create higher growth rates.
So I agree with the guidelines outlined in this document which, in my opinion, can actively contribute to the transformation of the Single Market in an innovative environment, favourable to businesses, based on digital economy and the effective free movement of services.
To this end, I agree with the need to encourage e-commerce able to promote cross-border trade, the coordination of fiscal policies and greater streamlining of cross-border public contract procurement, points on which the European SMEs lag behind.
We voted in favour of the report on a Single Market for enterprises and growth.
The report contains many important proposals for the development of the Single Market.
On the other hand, we are in favour of coordination between the Member States to prevent tax avoidance and tax havens for enterprises.
I voted in favour of this report.
Furthermore, I agree with the need to act on two other fronts; the services sector and SMEs.
Finally, as I have said in other debates, we must identify new incentives and give more support to small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of our market and creators of so many jobs.
in writing. - (RO) I think that Europe will benefit from the improvement in access for all companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, to information about the financial support for innovation which they can apply for, so as to become more involved in research programmes and, in particular, in public/private partnerships intending to run the research and innovation programmes.
I think that the potential offered by these enterprises has not been tapped sufficiently.
This is why the EU must support this sector in extending its activities, including at cross-border level, and in taking advantage of all the current opportunities available within the Single Market.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report on a 'Single Market for enterprises and growth' because I believe it will greatly enhance our internal market for the benefit of all citizens.
This report will, in reality, seek to strengthen industrial competitiveness, sustainable development and job creation.
The European Union has a unique economy, boasting 500 million consumers.
By maintaining, enhancing and promoting Europe's internal market, this will ensure greater movement of goods and services without barriers to trade between Member States.
Through proper implementation of these directives, European citizens will be able to travel to other European Member States for work and to provide services without high administrative burdens.
This report is also in favour of supporting SMEs which require a lot of support at this time.
As Europe is the largest economy in the world, implementing the Single Market is key to giving citizens and companies a feeling of confidence and security.
The crisis that the world, in general, and Europe, in particular, are experiencing leads us to reflect on the future of the EU and the measures that we must adopt in order to relaunch the European economy.
Among its objectives was the implementation of measures providing businesses with stronger, more sustainable and more equitable growth.
I am therefore pleased that this report has been adopted, as it aims, among other things, to reduce the bureaucratic burden on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) by giving them access to credit, by investing in innovation and the modernisation of services, such as through electronic management, and by implementing a digital economy.
These are fundamental pillars of the Europe 2020 strategy, which will contribute greatly to making the Single Market more competitive and stimulating its growth.
This is another report from the package on consolidating the Single Market.
One only has to look at what is happening in Portugal to realise that liberalisation has led to privatisation, high prices for businesses and consumers, and profits of more than EUR 1 billion for the shareholders of EDP - Energias de Portugal, S.A., and a similar amount for Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A.
and other companies in the sector.
However, the same might be said of sectors like the postal services, telecommunications or the financial sector.
Moreover, one only has to look at what is happening in Portugal to realise that liberalisation has led to privatisation, high prices for companies and consumers, and profits of more than EUR 1 billion for the shareholders of EDP - Energias de Portugal, S.A., and a similar amount for Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A.
Something similar might be said of other sectors including postal services or telecommunications, not to mention the financial sector.
We therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - The Buşoi report calls for a business friendly Single Market and quite rightly stresses the importance of SMEs.
I voted in favour of this report because in order to successfully revitalise the EU Single Market and to increase the global competitiveness of the EU as a whole and to create new jobs, it is necessary to adopt and implement many measures that would promote sustainable business growth and development.
The Single Market itself and the enterprises operating within it are vital for the future growth of EU economies.
The Single Market must become an innovative, business friendly environment, based on a digital economy and where the free movement of services is effective.
A well functioning Single Market for services has an important potential for growth and, hence, for our economic recovery.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as I see an urgent need to improve the conditions for SMEs so as to make Europe really competitive in the world.
SMEs are the driving force of Europe's economy.
The report on the Single Market for businesses and growth is, in my opinion, very balanced, and I believe that the implementation of the proposed measures will stimulate the growth of the Single Market and, ultimately, the economies of the Member States as well.
The pursuit of the objectives set out by the 2020 strategy calls for Europe to create conditions which are favourable for growth and innovation through investment and decisive action in the European market.
Europe needs to sustain growth and promote effective strategies within the internal market, which aim at increasing competitiveness, innovation and research.
The Commission must guarantee the implementation of a package which will ensure the achievement of these objectives by taking measures to improve competitiveness in the domestic market.
The Single Market is an important goal to be reached.
Bearing in mind the different conditions within the various Member States, the EU's task must be to minimise such discrepancies so as to allow all European enterprises to benefit.
Last October, the Commissioner for the Internal Market and Services, Michel Barnier, presented his 'Single Market Act', a collection of 50 proposals for boosting growth in the European Union.
The European Parliament was then invited to give its view on the various parts of this paper.
We must therefore promote creation and innovation from a perspective of sustainable development which combines international competitiveness with protection for SMEs.
It also reminds us of the need to support the real economy more than ever; in particular, through an ambitious European industrial policy.
With a view to establishing a genuinely Single Market for SMEs, the resolution proposes the creation of a 'European private company' status which would encourage the cross-border creation and functioning of these essential components of the Union's economic fabric.
I voted for this report as I think that the Single Market is unquestionably the main asset to our global competitiveness.
The new Member States are in a specific situation where there is still a low level of accessibility.
Support for investments in the infrastructure and its improvement will help boost the competitiveness of the regions lagging behind and ensure the internal market's harmonious operation.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The Single Market itself and the enterprises operating within it are vital for the future growth of EU economies.
This draft report outlines the priority measures which should be taken to build a stronger Single Market that responds better to the needs of EU businesses and which would generate higher growth rates than before.
The priorities of the rapporteur are arranged in four groups, aiming at transforming the Single Market in an innovative, business friendly environment, based on a digital economy, and where free movement of services is effective.
A well functioning Single Market for services has an important potential for growth and, hence, for our economic recovery.
True to neoliberal ideology, it blames administrative regulation and the protection of public services for impeding growth.
I am voting against this report.
The Single Market has always been one of the pillars of Europe's economic development.
The communication 'A Single Market Act' is based on the theme of political leadership and the principle of partnership as the fundamental instruments for relaunching and deepening the Single Market.
We have to create a new dynamic in interinstitutional relations, and in the cooperation and commitment of the Member States, as well as of the national parliaments and regional and local authorities, so that it is possible to improve the applicability and implementation of Single Market legislation.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in particular are an important engine for our entire economy.
The internal market must be made more attractive as a whole in order to become an innovative and business friendly environment.
All businesses within the EU should be able to benefit from the internal market, even if many areas, such as e-commerce, are still in clear need of development.
I voted in favour of this resolution because the Single Market is a very important factor for enterprises and growth.
Above all, in order to ensure that the funding mechanism functions effectively, we must create favourable conditions for long-term investment in innovative and job-creating sectors.
Particular attention must be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises which have a huge economic impact on the European economy.
It is very important to lay down a clearer VAT framework and a common consolidated corporate tax base.
I believe that a Statute for a European Private Company must be adopted as a matter of urgency to facilitate the establishment and cross-border operation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
It is noted that public procurement procedures must be more rational.
We must make conditions for cross-border procurement more favourable, ensuring reciprocity with industrialised countries and major emerging economies.
The main objective is to ensure growth and development, but also security and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, investors and consumers and all market participants whose commercial functions must be facilitated.
My 'yes' vote indicates not only a willingness to support the text, but also a real commitment to citizens to improve regulations and ensure equal opportunities for investment and consumption in a continually growing system for both the public and the private sector.
In this report, Parliament presents five major priorities, with the aim of consolidating the Single Market for enterprises and growth: the creation of an EU patent and a unified system for settling patent-related disputes; funding for innovation; the promotion of e-commerce; improved access to and greater participation in the Single Market by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); and the streamlining of procedures relating to public procurement.
I agree with the priorities presented, and I therefore voted in favour of this report.
I would like to reiterate my belief that the creation of an EU patent and a unified system for settling patent-related disputes is indispensable in order to support innovation and creativity in the Single Market.
Innovation and creativity are known to be factors in growth.
Alongside this measure, I believe that the Commission and the Member States should take into account the importance of innovation for strong and sustainable growth, as well as for job creation.
The Single Market must be relaunched and completed in order to meet the objectives set in the Europe 2020 strategy so as to offer more growth for businesses, including social economy enterprises (cooperatives, associations, mutual societies and foundations) and create more and better jobs, as well as provide adequate protection for the rights of European workers and consumers.
I call for the creation of a more SME-friendly regulatory environment by carefully assessing the impact of any new regulatory or legislative measures on SMEs, with a view to cutting red tape, boosting competitiveness and promoting quality employment.
The full realisation of a competitive Single Market, without barriers, is essential to relaunching the European economy and stimulating growth, competitiveness and sustainability in the EU.
A Single Market which works well is essential for ensuring competitiveness, the creation of jobs and sustainable growth in Europe.
That is why I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, Mr Busoi, which puts forward several priorities for improving the functioning of the Single Market, accompanied by a number of legislative proposals for achieving this.
We must speed up the creation of the Community patent, rationalise procurement procedures and provide more of a stimulus to the digital economy by reinforcing the confidence of businesses and citizens in e-commerce.
in writing. - I voted in favour.
In October 2010, the Commission adopted a communication entitled 'Towards a Single Market Act' to re-launch the Single Market.
In the first part of this communication, the Commission proposes a number of actions to have stronger, sustainable and equitable growth for business.
The communication, 'A Single Market Act', addresses the issue of political leadership and the principle of partnership as the fundamental instruments for relaunching the Single Market.
The dynamics of interinstitutional relations and the cooperation and commitment of the Member States, particularly national parliaments and regional and local authorities, are mechanisms that will improve the applicability and implementation of Single Market legislation.
I am voting in favour of this report as I believe that the measures presented are vital.
Of these, I would like to highlight the inclusion of an assessment of the state of the Single Market in the spring session of the Council, the publication of a Green Paper with the participation of civil society and regional and local authorities, the publication of correlation tables and, finally, the reduction of deficits and errors in the transposition of directives.
I would also like to point out that regional and local authorities should have a more important role, in line with the subsidiarity principle and the partnership principle.
I supported the report by our fellow Member, Mr Busoi, as well as the two reports by Mrs Kalniete and Mr Correia de Campos.
These three reports were drawn up following the proposal for a Single Market Act published by the European Commission.
The objective of Michel Barnier, Commissioner for the Internal Market, is to relaunch the Single Market but, above all, to bring it closer to the citizen.
The Single Market Act must be seen as an opportunity to demonstrate to citizens that European integration, and the Single Market in particular, is being carried out in their interest, not against them.
Guaranteeing access to a basic banking service - or, more generally, safeguarding the quality and accessibility of services that are essential for our fellow citizens - is a step in this direction.
The three European Parliament reports in response to the Commission's Single Market Act address issues which are important to European industry and its small and medium-sized enterprises.
The simplification of legislation and bureaucracy, the fight against counterfeiting, the importance of innovation and increased access to credit represent points on which our businesses are expecting necessary interventions from Europe so they can return to being competitive again in international markets.
On the other hand, what is really necessary for the recovery and completion of the single European market is a uniform tax policy within the Union.
The lack of fiscal harmonisation in Europe creates imbalances between the various EU territories, such as North-Eastern Italy and Slovenia, which compete on fiscal levels as well as on the degree of development of their economies.
In this case however, despite the things I disagree with in the report by the Member from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE), such as the measures which, I believe, benefit large corporations rather than small enterprises, I will abstain from voting because of the importance given to emphasising innovation to promote growth.
in writing. - The European Commission's proposed Single Market Act aims to unlock the potential of the Single Market and put the EU's economy and competitiveness back on track after the economic crisis.
I voted for Parliament's recommendations on the Commission's Single Market Act and I urge the European Commission to take up those recommendations to ensure that governance structures are strengthened, support for innovation and job creation is provided, and citizens are put at the heart of the Single Market.
I welcome the resolution calling for an increased focus on the mobility of citizens and I believe it is also essential that the re-launch of the Single Market focuses on the needs of SMEs in order to provide an environment that will create new, innovative businesses across the EU, and especially in Wales.
in writing. - I supported the twelve measures contained in the Single Market Act and hope that the Commission will translate this into effective legislative measures.
