Combating late payment in commercial transactions (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Weiler, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating late payment in commercial transactions (recast) - C7-0044/2009 -.
The legislation from 2000 was non-binding and not very efficient.
They wanted payment practices in Europe to be organised in a considerably more efficient manner.
As a matter of principle, invoices must be paid within 30 days with few exceptions, and these must be justified.
It is regrettable that the Council has not always fulfilled its objective of helping small businesses.
The Commission, Parliament and the Council have decided to join together in giving a specific response to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) by implementing part of the Small Business Act.
As a result of the harmonisation of payment periods for public bodies, which will have to pay their invoices within 30 days, I think we will inject a substantial amount of extra cash into companies' coffers.
Tomorrow, Parliament, in agreement with the Council Presidency and the European Commission, will provide a concrete response to these expectations.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Weiler for the excellent work she has done.
With this provision, Europe is putting an end to a procedure that has brought a great many small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to their knees.
That is why the provision is important: it sets the maximum payment period at 60 days, increases interest on late payments to 8% and outlaws the use of contractual terms that are unfair to the creditor.
Madam President, Mr Tajani, Mrs Weiler, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased and proud to have contributed to the adoption of this directive on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
It is a vital counter-cyclical measure which provides very real support to companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), by laying down definite payment terms and appropriate penalties to encourage punctual payment by both public authorities and private enterprise in the European Union.
The scale of the problem of late payment is not the same in every Member State.
However, we should not forget that businesses operate in the common European market and often conduct their activities in different Member States.
Well, in my opinion, its teeth are to be found in the maximum and non-extendible 60-day settlement period for public authorities.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Weiler, on her work and the remarkable compromise achieved with the Council, as the Commission's initial proposal had some major faults.
First, I am very pleased that there is a guarantee in place on equal treatment of the public and private sectors.
Another move forward is the extension of payment terms to 60 instead of 30 days for public health services, which have complex budgetary procedures forcing them to have longer payment terms, for which they cannot be held responsible.
Finally, and this relates primarily to the small and medium-sized enterprises which are victims of payment delays, the introduction of an 8% interest rate in the event of a delay and compensation to cover collection costs could encourage these companies to demand damages.
It is the first directive that can quite simply be explained in three sentences: firstly, public authorities will, as a matter of principle, have to pay within 30 days in future if no shorter payment targets have been agreed and if no special circumstances make a payment target of no more than 60 days necessary.
Secondly, when agreeing payment targets, enterprises have freedom of contract within 60 days and payment targets of more than 60 days are no longer permitted, except if expressly agreed and if it does not pose a serious disadvantage to the creditor.
Thirdly, if the aforementioned payment deadlines are exceeded, recovery costs of at least EUR 40 and interest of at least 8% above the European Central Bank base interest rate can be charged without a prior reminder.
Enterprises that do business within Europe know that, in future, their claims will be settled after no more than 60 days.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, on behalf of my political group, and also as the chairman of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I want to thank Mrs Weiler in particular as the rapporteur, and also all the many colleagues from the committee who are here today, for a great example of teamwork.
For a start, it goes to the heart of problems that many small businesses are experiencing in an economy in which they are finding conditions very difficult at the moment.
I think this is a good example of smart regulation, but may I just conclude by making two final observations.
In view of all this, it is hardly surprising if a small business is forced into bankruptcy due to a lack of liquid assets, especially in periods of economic crisis and recession such as the one we are now experiencing.
The new parameters laid down in the adopted report include keeping contractual freedom in negotiations between private enterprises, but imposing time limits (30 + 30 days); setting the term within which public authorities must pay private enterprises at 30 days; and introducing a new rule for large corporations - such as those operating in the postal service, energy and transport sectors - which compete with private companies even though they are publicly funded, in that they are equated to private companies and are therefore subject to the rules of the private market.
Derogation from the 30 days is particularly not allowed in the case of public authorities.
Abusing their significant market share and dominance, large multinational companies force their domestic partners into contracts stipulating 90 or 120 day payment terms, with possible notional sanctions if missed.
I believe that when this measure is implemented in the Member States, when consumers get to know about it, we will have to attempt to explain this many times, because in the case of a completely normal delivery of goods, EUR 40 is actually a good means of preventing these late payments that we want to put a stop to in Europe.
This is excellent legislation, and I would like, in particular, to compliment my colleague, Barbara Weiler, on the manner in which she brought this through.
Hopefully, these laws will give them a stronger negotiating position so that this vulnerable group in the food chain can also be better protected. (CS) To start with, I think that I first need to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Weiler, for the good work she has done, because initially, it was not easy at all.
I would like to thank Commissioner Tajani for his personal commitment, the Council for its flexibility and, of course, my colleagues, for reaching this compromise in first reading that is so important for us in business.
Limiting the payment period for public administrative authorities to 60 days is, of course, a major achievement, since public authorities, as Commissioner Tajani has just said, simply have to process payments, so it is a matter of reducing bureaucracy.
I believe that we have found a good balance between respect for freedom of contract - which is all important - and providing small companies with the necessary tools to avoid being held hostage by bigger companies or public administration.
The fact that Greece has agreed to payment margins which might be termed 'narrow' illustrates that we really are committed to turning round the situation in my country.
The general 30-day payment rule means, in very simple terms, that our internal administrative auditing procedures for approving payments need to be changed.
The 60-day exception, especially in sectors such as health, gives us a margin for handling chain payment procedures which are not always easy to audit.
We must give small and medium-sized enterprises a chance to work with more incentives and to create healthy growth. (PL) The problem of prompt payment in commercial transactions also affects farmers and suppliers of agricultural produce.
In the recent Bové report, the European Parliament declared in favour of farmers and deemed that the maximum settlement period for transactions of this kind should be no longer than 30 days.
Farmers should be protected from the dishonest practices of commercial enterprises and, in particular, those of the huge retail chains. (IT) Madam President, Mr Tajani, Mrs Weiler, the directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions is a powerful and important act of this House, which has become the spokesman for the just requests of Europe's small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which have been suffering from late payment of their invoices for years.
Under the agreement reached on 13 September between Parliament and the Council, companies can now rely on definite deadlines by which they can expect their invoices to be paid, and these deadlines will have to be met by both public authorities and the private sector.
I would not like to see this benefit for SMEs have an impact on purchase prices.
While the payment periods for contracts between businesses should, in principle, be limited to 60 calendar days - and this period may be extended in exceptional cases - in the case of contracts with public authorities, including municipalities and towns, the periods should not exceed 30 calendar days.
The justification that public authorities are at an advantage in that they can obtain financing on more attractive terms than businesses, or are less dependent on building stable relationships, may be valid for national authorities or European institutions, but is definitely not valid for most smaller towns and rural municipalities, not only in the Czech Republic, but throughout Europe.
The resulting proposal is therefore largely discriminatory towards such smaller towns. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally agree with the need to strengthen Directive 2000/35/EC and to identify the instruments needed to put an end to, or at least significantly reduce, late payment in commercial transactions.
As for whether the public authorities will comply promptly or whether the 8% interest rate will act as a deterrent, I cannot hide the fact that I am somewhat doubtful as to the outcome, when I think of certain regions in my own country and other Member States that will really struggle to comply with the new rules.
Such delays are unreasonably long in some Member States when they involve public administration.
This practice has massive negative effects on economic life, whether in terms of small and medium-sized enterprises or the internal market, and they cannot be tolerated any longer, especially given that we are experiencing the kind of economic and financial crisis that we are at present.
An agreement has now been made with the Council to update the Late Payments Directive, which would set a general deadline of 30 days for payments between businesses and public corporations.
In my view, however, it is also important to recognise a general freedom of contract in business transactions between enterprises, and that is why I think that it is a good idea if payment periods in business transactions between companies can also be extended to 60 days, if that is the view of both parties.
The prospect of extending payment periods for public authorities is a more limited one, and late payment in public administration, in particular, has become a huge problem in some EU countries.
In Greece, for example, the average payment period has had to be stretched to as much as 165 days (although things are getting better, as our Greek fellow Member pointed out here).
Despite these marginal comments, the Late Payments Directive will certainly be of most benefit mainly to small and mediumsized enterprises. (RO) In an unstable economic environment, late payments have an adverse impact on SMEs.
The new regulations on late payment in commercial transactions should facilitate and speed up the process for companies to recover the money they are due.
I wish to end by expressing my support for this proposal for a directive which encourages better supervision and evaluation of the commercial transactions system. (CS) I have no doubt that tomorrow, we will pass this revised directive and thus open the way to a new business culture where early payments are common practice and late payments incur harsh penalties.
In particular, smaller entrepreneurs will appreciate the fact that state authorities and institutions linked to the state budget will also no longer owe money for many months for goods and services, and will perhaps pay within 30 days.
Further control is very important, since it is well-known that small enterprises, including those in the agricultural sector, are particularly disadvantaged within the food supply chain, as also mentioned in the Bové report.
Thank you for your attention. (PT) Madam President, in many Member States today, there is a wide disparity as regards the payment terms to businesses, especially when the state, small and medium-sized enterprises, and large companies are involved.
Let us all hope, therefore, that the new directive will bring the expected improvements, and that the deliberate holding back of funds will become a thing of the past in the European Union. (IT) Madam President, Mr Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Italy and throughout Europe are suffering terribly from the effects of the crisis.
It is in their interests, above all, that we will be voting tomorrow on the report on the proposal for a directive on combating late payment.
Thanks to the European Parliament, from tomorrow, SMEs will be better protected against those opposite numbers in the public and private sectors that, hitherto, have relied too heavily on being able to put off paying their bills.
In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and Commissioner Tajani for their commitment. (SK) Anyone who has ever been in business or has been involved in commercial activities will know what complications can be caused by something as trivial as late payments.
I am therefore very pleased that today, we intend to lay down fixed payment deadlines and reminder charges for both private and public contracting authorities.
Madam President, I think the debate has shown Parliament's willingness - albeit with a variety of nuances - to support this new directive, which will provide concrete responses for small and medium-sized enterprises and millions of Europeans who are expecting the Union's institutions to help them keep their jobs.
I would like to thank the Presidency and all those who have collaborated: the Commission staff, my office, the Belgian Presidency's staff and the parliamentary assistants.
We cannot sit back, however, as someone suggested, but must make sure that these rules are adopted quickly by the Member States, which have 24 months at most to do so, although we hope some of them may take less time.
I thank you once again for your cooperation with the Commission and for the extraordinary result we have achieved in such a short time.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 20 October, at 12:30.
The report on action against late payments aims to improve the functioning of the internal market, to improve payment ethics, and to support the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to pay.
A fixed period of 30 days is proposed as the payment period.
The rapporteur proposes setting a period of 60 days as the maximum payment period for public authorities, which I fully support.
Back in February this year, a draft law by the CSD was approved in Parliament which establishes that the state is to begin paying default interest when the delay in payment exceeds the limits set out in the contract or in law (30 or 60 days).
We are therefore completely on board with the text that has now been approved, and which will establish an average period of 30 days for the state to pay its debts to suppliers.
This term may be extended to 60 days in specific cases.
I would like to thank Mrs Weiler for this high quality report and the outcome of the negotiations with the Council, as the first reading agreement includes all the key elements that were put forward by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and which were approved in the vote in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
I am especially pleased to see that private companies and public authorities are now placed on an equal footing.
The Commission's initial proposal contained far more stringent penalties for public authorities, a position which our group felt was unacceptable as, unlike private undertakings, public sector bodies are not focused primarily on profit but rather operate in the general interest.
Finally, the maximum payment period of 30 days set out in the text seems reasonable, given that there is some scope for flexibility, notably for public healthcare bodies, a point that our group deemed particularly important.
The directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions is one of the most positive examples of this type.
Late payment for the receipt of goods and services is a practice that is noticeable in Member States.
Furthermore, on several occasions, it is public bodies, which should theoretically have no problems in settling bills, that act in this way.
The new conditions and rules for all parties significantly help small and medium-sized enterprises to defend themselves against this disguised credit.
