Human rights in the world 2009 and EU policy on the matter (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Andrikienė, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Annual Report on Human Rights in the World 2009 and the European Union's policy on the matter.
The Annual Report on Human Rights in the World adopted by the Council of the European Union and EU policy in this field are the basis of this discussion and the European Parliament resolution, on which we will vote tomorrow.
We understand the great responsibility that lies with you, both now and in the future, and I would like to assure you that we in the European Parliament will do all we can to ensure that the European Union's objectives in the area of foreign policy are realised.
Baroness Ashton, the Treaty of Lisbon has been in force for a year and the European External Action Service became operational barely a fortnight ago.
The European Parliament has clearly expressed its position that in the new European External Action Service the primary focus should be democracy-building and human rights protection across the globe and that this should be reflected both in the structure of the service and its funding.
There could be a Human Rights and Democracy Directorate, an international law directorate or a structure with another name but the same content.
My colleagues in the European Parliament played an active part in the preparation of the report we are debating and it was adopted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs by a huge majority: 50 'for', none 'against' and two abstentions.
We trust that in exercising your responsibilities, you will take this fact into account and will find a means of expressing our position, our disappointment and our regret and opposition in this matter to the Cuban Government.
I would also like to draw your attention to another painful case that we discuss in our report.
This is the trial of Mikhail Khodorkovskii and Platon Lebedev, which in my opinion mirrors the rotten state of the judicial system and the absence of the rule of law in Russia.
Nearly ten years on from the very first EU communication on human rights, and with the establishment of the new service, I want to ensure our human rights policy is effective, innovative and targeted: the silver thread that runs through all of our external action and a gold standard for our foreign policy.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (LV) Madam President, Mrs Ashton, I should first of all like to thank Mrs Andrikienfor her successful report, which was adopted practically unanimously in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The report on human rights in the world testifies to the critical situation in even those countries with which the European Union has for many years been conducting dialogue and consultations on human rights.
The European Union has developed a set of tools that can really contribute to promoting democracy in the world.
Baroness Ashton, you have taken up the cause of human rights very well and made your mark at the end of this first year after the Treaty of Lisbon.
on behalf on the ALDE Group. - (LT) Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those MEPs, who provided amendments and participated in discussions, for their interest and efforts to create and improve this report on Human rights in the world and EU policy on the matter.
I would also urge colleagues to support another amendment tabled by our group calling on the European Commission to take further action to implement the 2007 Human Rights report's commitments to strengthen efforts to combat violence.
If we need to have more coherence - which we do - we definitely need to have this permanent structure in place.
Lastly, I would like to thank you for your efforts in bringing the Member States together last Friday in Oslo for the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony.
I think one thing which should be stressed is that Christians still constitute the most persecuted religious group in the world, and they are suffering discrimination, being attacked and often even being killed in almost every part of the world.
I am very grateful to Mrs Ashton for her reaction in many individual cases recently, but this matter should continue to be reiterated.
Countries in our neighbourhood, such as Egypt and Algeria, should feel that we cannot extend our political dialogue without including the subject of religious minorities in these countries.
Here are a few examples: I am committed to freedom of religion as well as to the freedom to believe or not to believe.
There is still a lot of work to be done and I have listened to you carefully, Baroness Ashton.
For all these reasons, I reiterate the proposal already put forward earlier to establish a specific, accurate and annual report by the European Parliament to monitor the status of religious freedom in the world.
Words are very fine, but action might be more helpful to the oppressed and suffering peoples of the world.
So can I ask Baroness Ashton to attend the next meeting of the Subcommittee on Human Rights - and not just in spirit - on 10 January, where she can take part in an exchange of views on the human rights and democracy network and explain to us exactly what the word 'action' means to her. (PL) Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Andrikienė, rapporteur for the report on human rights in 2009.
It seems to me that we ought to check more often whether these institutions do in fact carry out what the European Parliament has requested.
The first area is an attempt to evaluate respect for human rights in 2009, and the second is the European Union's policy in this matter.
I am thinking of the use of violence against women, and also of the fact that there are still hundreds of millions of children in the world who are being forced to work as slaves.
I would like to agree with all the suggestions about this which are found in the report.
Although some countries are still living in the Middle Ages as regards compliance with human rights standards, Europe would be well advised to give up on adopting too arrogant a stance.
Only then will mainstreaming be possible in all areas of policy and at a central decision-making level.
Equally, the EU has a moral duty to provide development and humanitarian aid to developing countries, even those with a lamentable human rights record, such as Pakistan where women and religious minorities in particular suffer from institutionalised discrimination.
I am nevertheless pleased that this report highlights countries that have been of particular concern to me during my career - Vietnam, Cuba, Venezuela, Iran, Zimbabwe and North Korea.
The central theme running through this report is that democracy, human rights and economic freedom go hand in hand.
I would like to mention three current breaches of the fundamental right of religious freedom as a way of urging the Council and the Commission, who are here combined in one person, you, Madam High Representative, to give a voice and, thus, a face to these and all other persecuted citizens caught up on the diplomatic agenda.
For me, there are three urgent cases: 1.
Action point for Europe: bring about the release of Aisha Bibi and the abolition of blasphemy laws in Pakistan. 3.
Yusuf al-Qaradawi, leader of a house church in Iran, sentenced to death on 'apostasy' charges.
In Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Somalia and other such countries, more and more Christians and other religious minorities are becoming the subjects of oppression.
Often, these actions are directed against communities who have lived in these countries much longer than the Muslims.
I call on the European Union and its Member States to do more to combat this religious persecution and, Madam Ashton, I am asking you specifically, how is your policy going to address this? (EL) Madam President, I must congratulate Mrs Andrikienon the integrated report which she tabled.
I would remind everyone that the Ancient Greeks said 'man is the measure of all things' 2 500 years ago.
Madam President, Baroness Ashton, we need to go beyond words; we need to take action, we need to take the measures needed for social protection, to combat social exclusion and, most of all, to find employment for young people.
The European External Action Service offers us the opportunity to follow up with actions the words which we approve every Thursday afternoon at the latest.
The coming into effect of the Treaty of Lisbon is a unique opportunity for significant progress in human rights and democracy, which from now on should become a central element in various areas of foreign policy in particular.
Baroness Ashton, I am extremely glad that you are now in office, because your record has shown that you have absolutely no hesitation in standing up for people who have no voice and whose rights are taken away.
I should also like to express congratulations on the adoption by the Council in 2009 of the LGBT toolkit.
That still exists.
Like Mrs Hautala, I was in Oslo last week and I would like to just reflect on one single point.
Everybody stood up, because we stood as Western civil society behind a set of principles.
We look to you, Baroness Ashton, to bring those forward. (PL) Madam President, Mrs Andrikienė's report is, indeed, lengthy, but it is my profound conviction that the report does not exhaust all the issues concerning respect for human rights in the world in 2009.
There is the EU Fundamental Charter of Human Rights in the Treaty of Lisbon; there is a European Court of Human Rights over there, which seeks to give British prisoners the vote - even murderers and paedophiles.
This has to stop. (DE) Madam President, the fact that the EU is increasing its activities in the field of human rights and that the issue of persecution and discrimination against Christian minorities is specifically addressed in these reports represents a step in the right direction.
Examples include Egypt, Iran, Iraq and, of course, Turkey, where Christians are in some cases fighting for their very survival, both in economic and in physical terms.
We do not need a new post, such as the planned Special Representative for Human Rights, to force these countries to show more tolerance and to protect their minorities.
Most importantly, they are well understood throughout the world. (HU) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, first of all, let me congratulate my colleague, Mrs Laima Andrikienė, on her excellent work.
The spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon has created a new moment, one that will require us to take more consistent action in this area as well, and the failure to observe this spirit should not be permitted to undermine the credibility of the EU.
As the rapporteur for the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union I am particularly pleased that this debate has been brought before the plenary of Parliament at the same time, and that the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union that was adopted today, as well as the report on human rights that is currently under debate, convey the message that we consider the protection and consistent application of fundamental and human rights and the avoidance of a double standard to be equally important in and outside the EU. (PL) Madam President, I am pleased by two things.
The apparatus of the European External Action Service should be used for this very purpose - to promote human rights and to protect human rights defenders throughout the world.
This support from Brussels and Strasbourg for people who are fighting for human rights in Russia is extremely important, and I think this report deserves support if only because it treats these people with such respect.
I think we should move in this direction, and I appeal to Mrs Ashton to do this. (PL) Madam President, the debate on the report on human rights in the world has coincided with sad events which confirm that human rights are constantly being violated.
Winners of the Nobel Peace Prize - Liu Xiaobo - and the Sakharov Prize - Guillermo Fariñas - were not able to receive their awards, because they did not receive permission from the regimes where they live to leave their country.
I would like to add my voice to the appeal of the President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, to make the problem of the safety of Christians in Iraq a priority.
We cannot agree to Christians being treated as second-class citizens.
This work should concentrate on strengthening international cooperation and raising the level of security.
Promoting democratic values and human rights should be the main principle of a consistent European Union foreign policy. (IT) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, as Vice-Chair of the Committee on Development, I am engaged with the problems of many countries, especially in Africa, where human rights are routinely violated and trampled underfoot, if not altogether forgotten at times.
The international community must significantly increase funding for campaigns to protect women from rape and other forms of violence, such as genital mutilation, which is also a serious violation of human rights and the physical integrity of women. (IT) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the European External Action Service is a historic opportunity to address issues of human rights and democracy.
The use of capital punishment is of concern in Belarus, the only country in Europe that still applies the death penalty.
I conclude by calling for greater efforts to be made by the Commission and the Council to circulate the European Union annual report on human rights. (HU) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, I would like to emphasise that although the European Union has achieved unprecedented integration between its Member States in several areas, in the codification of human rights it is significantly lagging behind other international organisations.
The EU European External Action Service can carry out its activities effectively, relying moreover on the acknowledged sensitivity of Member States, but we need a comprehensive and decisive policy that has the necessary bite when required.
Today, however, Parliament has enacted some important measures and we therefore believe that any programme that is genuinely aimed at protecting human rights can only be developed truly and effectively through strong, concrete dialogue with third countries. (EL) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, it is a pleasure to listen to the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union state in no uncertain terms that we are in favour of the application of fundamental freedoms and human rights and that, as the European Union, we have to do everything we can to safeguard the application of principles and freedoms that are common to the entire world, so that we can perform this positive role.
A word of advice and a request: send your first representative to the Republic of Cyprus. (SV) Madam President, one of the candidates for the Sakharov Prize, Dawit Isaak, is still being held in prison without trial in Eritrea.
I appeal to you, Baroness Aston, to use this opportunity to increase the pressure on Eritrea to release the European prisoner of conscience, Dawit Isaak.
It has to be an essential requirement that all of the negotiations conducted with Eritrea lead to the release of Dawit Isaak.
I would also like to say that human rights are in a new situation after the Treaty of Lisbon.
Therefore, colleagues, I encourage you to support Amendment 25, which proposes to impose sanctions on 60 Russian officials involved in the case until a proper investigation of the death of Sergei Magnitsky is conducted. (PL) Madam President, as a member of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, I would like to extend hearty congratulations to Mrs Andrikienfor writing a really good draft report.
Furthermore, as Chairman of the European Parliament delegation for relations with Belarus, I would also like to express my great satisfaction that the report contains references to the situation in that country.
I am thinking, in particular, of the references to how freedom of association is permanently restricted in Belarus, and this includes the freedom of association of national and ethnic minorities, and also how the work of religious organisations is restricted.
I am pleased, too, that the report also reflects the restricted freedom of access to the Internet, and the fact that Belarus is a kind of shameful leader in this field in Europe.
As you will see in the structure when we finalise it, and we have not yet done so - human rights will be fully recognised in the structure and we are going to make sure we have the expertise that colleagues here have asked for within the structure.
I will be appointing the working group chair who will be responsible for human rights, and that will enable them to pick up the point that was made about whether capitals should have people gathered from the capitals or whether it should be based in Brussels.
They are very clear about their responsibilities and about my and your expectations in that regard.
I think this is a core and fundamental part of the work that we should do.
So three areas: firstly, making sure the structures are right and the people know and understand the core work they need to do; secondly, ensuring that we cover everyone in the work we do on human rights; and thirdly, ways in which we can make a difference.
Immediately after this discussion I will translate my speech into English myself and will send it to all the colleagues concerned and also to the High Representative.
Secondly, I would like to thank all the colleagues who participated in today's debate for their positive assessment and for their critical remarks.
On a final note, I would like to assure Baroness Ashton that Parliament will continue to scrutinise closely the work of the European External Action Service and will criticise inaction or the ineffectiveness of action taken in the area of human rights.
We have also expressed our disappointment at the lack of progress achieved by the human rights dialogues and consultations.
I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (DE) The fact that the EU wants to increase its activities in the field of human rights and that the issue of persecution and discrimination against Christian minorities is specifically addressed in this report represents a fundamental step in the right direction.
To give just a few examples: In Egypt, Iran, Iraq and Turkey, Christians are fighting for their very survival, both in economic and in physical terms.
We do not need to establish a new post, such as the planned Special Representative for Human Rights, to encourage or even to force these countries to show more tolerance and to protect their minorities.
In its annual report on human rights, the European Parliament stresses its commitment to protecting these rights throughout the world.
In order to be effective in the fight against violations of human rights around the world, we have to act together and in accordance with the principles of law and order which are accepted internationally on this matter.
It is horrifying that in the 21st century there are 215 million children in the world who are being forced to work, including around 115 million who have to perform hard slave labour.
We cannot allow the economic crisis to make the situation of these children worse.
I am pleased that the European Parliament has today adopted the necessary sanctions against the Russian officers involved in the trial and the death of Magnitsky.
Therefore, I strongly condemn the sale by France of a Mistral class warship to Russia and regret this action.
in writing. - Mrs Andrikienė's report is a step in the right direction.
The Magnitsky case, referred to in the report, follows the murders of Politkovsaya, Estemirova and Barburova.
in writing. - The European Union's continued protection of human rights has paid great dividends worldwide and we must further our efforts in this age of globalisation.
Parliament's efforts to spread democracy and protect human rights continue to make progress, and in today's globalised world we know about injustices at a faster rate.
