Investment projects in energy infrastructure within the European Community (debate) The next item is the report by Adina-Ioana Vălean, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council regulation concerning the notification to the Commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure within the European Community and repealing Regulation (EC) No 736/96 - C7-0125/2009 -.
I believe this is an area where, if Member States work together, Europe can ensure secure, cheaper and more efficient energy for its citizens.
Of course, Europe cannot interfere in gas flow outside its borders or solve such disputes, but what we can do is ensure that our infrastructure is able to cope with supply shortages or failures, and make the market more transparent and efficient.
A regulation on the security of gas supplies is currently on the table in Parliament and tomorrow's vote on the regulation on notification of investments in energy infrastructure will contribute to making the market more transparent and more predictable.
In this context, I think it would be a pity to waste the opportunity this new instrument offers, by not applying the correct legal basis provided by the new Article 194 of the Lisbon Treaty.
This regulation is not only a tool for collecting information; it can also give an overall picture of investments in energy infrastructure as a basis for policy making.
Madam President, Mrs Vălean, honourable Members, the gas crisis at the beginning of last year showed us how important it is for Europe to have an energy infrastructure in place that not only promotes the functioning of the internal market, but that also enables solidarity between the Member States and the regions affected in the event of a crisis.
This brings me to the point, Mrs Vălean, that is of interest to you and to the entire House, namely the new Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon and its application.
However, the legal act to which today's debate refers only concerns the collection and evaluation of information in the energy sector and therefore is based, according to the Commission's interpretation, on Articles 337 and 187 of the Euratom Treaty.
This analysis should supplement national and regional strategies and help consolidate energy security by identifying potential loopholes and risks in terms of infrastructure and investment, with a view to ensuring a balance between supply and demand in the energy sector.
I think that the Commission's proposal contains a number of points that are unclear, but which I believe have been resolved through the amendments tabled, such as the issue of publishing energy data sent by Member States.
Another particularly important aspect is the issue of monitoring in third countries European investment which has an impact on the European energy market.
I believe that investments made in third countries by both governments and national companies, which have a significant impact on the energy market, must be reported as part of this regulation.
What is important is that the element of competition in the common market for products and services, which is influenced mainly by the cost of energy in each Member State, and the need to maintain trade secrets, should not obscure or disrupt integration processes.
Energy efficiency is crucial for both jobs and growth in Europe and is essential if we are to achieve the 2 °C objective.
The two main prerequisites in this context are smart energy grids and a free, well-functioning internal market in energy.
As mentioned previously, the proposal's objectives are incredibly important - so important that they have been given a separate legal basis in Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon, in which they are practically listed word for word.
For these reasons, we may regard the draft Council Regulation concerning the notification of investment projects in energy infrastructure as a natural and necessary step in the extension of EU energy policy, responding to current developments in the field of energy supply in the EU.
The amendment proposals included in the report on this point of the programme improve the wording of the regulation and I therefore consider it right to support them. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent report by Mrs Vălean makes some sensible points with which I agree.
For this reason, the Commission should be obliged to discuss its analyses with the Member States and with operators in the sectors; this is a commitment that the Commission made here with us.
We must also successfully avoid a duplication of the work that operators, national regulatory authorities and Member States have to undertake in order to define the national plans aimed at protecting the security of supply, with specific reference to the gas infrastructure, and also guarantee that, if operators decide to change their investment plans, they are not penalised in any way.
The Treaty of Lisbon strengthens the European Union's powers in the area of energy policy.
EU energy security and solidarity between Member States in energy crisis situations are vital to the European Union's energy policy.
However, I believe that this regulation should also be applied to European companies which invest in energy infrastructure projects in third countries and are directly linked to the energy networks of one or more Member States or have a significant impact on them.
According to a report produced by Exxon Mobil, one of the world's largest fuel corporations, world demand for energy is going to rise by around 1.2% annually, so that by the year 2030, demand will have risen by approximately 35%.
A consequence of Europe's growing need for gas will be an increased dependence on imports of this resource, from 45% in 2005 to 70% in 2030.
Priority should be given to those projects which concentrate on cross-border needs and contribute to the development of new technologies which are of fundamental significance for the future energy needs of Europe.
I learned recently there were 45 different groups doing research into salmonella bacteria.
Now, if this could happen with salmonella bacteria, you could have 450 groups doing the same research into renewable energies, for example, wind energy, solar energy, tidal energy and wave energy.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that investments and the deployment of ICT solutions in the energy sector are key to the development of an energy-efficient, low carbon economy. (SK) The Lisbon Treaty, which has strengthened the powers of the EU in the field of energy policy, should be actively exploited in order to overcome difficulties and prevent possible problems on the energy market.
For the aforementioned reasons, I agree with the view that it is necessary to gather precise and adequate information on planned investments, in order that the EU can make informed decisions on energy policy, based on an integrated picture and on the situation prevailing in all of the Member States. (PL) A guarantee of stable and uninterrupted energy supplies has become a priority for the governments of Member States of the Union, as it has for the Community as a whole.
Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for your valuable suggestions for improvement.
This is important in cases where there is only one company operating at national level in a particular energy sector.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner and colleagues for their interesting input in the debate.
And this regulation is not about devising a policy on renewables or gas.
Finally, I would like to say to my colleague, Lena Ek, that I only hope the aggregated data that we have as a result of this regulation will help us to become smarter in energy issues and will be in our general interest.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 25 February 2010.
This includes data about oil and natural gas infrastructures, as well as for renewable energy sources.
Furthermore, it is also important to monitor those European investments in third countries which have a major impact on the EU energy market.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on investment projects in energy infrastructure within the European Community is an important instrument for promoting an EU-level energy policy effectively.
Investment projects in energy infrastructure are crucial if a free and therefore competitive energy market is to be established.
Not a day goes by without a Member State or big company announcing major investment plans in the energy sector.
I think it is important for requirements in the proposal regarding notification of investments not to place an excessive administrative burden on the authorities of Member States.
It is worth recalling in that regard that even now, the EU directives for the internal electricity and natural gas market call for preparing 10-year investment plans.
We must not forget that in new Member States, district heating plays a significant role in serving the population.
In the context of the new energy policy aimed at guaranteeing the supply of energy, alleviating the impact of climate change and ensuring competitiveness, energy infrastructure investments have a vital role to play.
The introduction of a notification system for investment projects in the energy sector in each individual Member State will enable the Commission to obtain the full picture of how the EU's energy infrastructure is developing, while also guiding the countries towards resolving the weakest, problematic areas.
