EU guarantee to the EIB against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the EU (debate) The first item is the report by Mr Kalfin, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council granting an EU guarantee to the European Investment Bank against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the European Union - C7-0110/2010-.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank very much all my colleagues from the political groups, and the administration, for their dedication, their work based on the highest professional standards, and their endeavouring to achieve a broad consensus on a mandate for the European Investment Bank that will make a difference in fulfilling the EU's objectives.
Parliament proposes much better coordination between the External Action Service, the Commission and the Bank in implementing the EU's external policy objectives.
An additional sum of EUR 2 billion will be released for use in environment-related projects.
The proposed increase in ceilings amounts to about EUR 1.7 billion, and would allow the bank to at least maintain the intensity of its activities in the pre-accession countries, and especially in the Mediterranean region.
That is why the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament decided, with the consent of Mr Kalfin and of the other rapporteurs, to table amendments in plenary on these two subjects.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (NL) Mr President, the rapid rate of economic growth in developing countries is passing huge swathes of people by.
However, with this new dimension to its operations, the EIB is an indispensable tool for the European Union's development policy, with a clear commitment to equal opportunities in developing countries and to sustainable economic growth.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - Mr President, up to now the professionals who run the European Investment Bank have operated the Bank with a culture of financial probity.
A compromise has been reached with the other political groups to amend the Commission's original text.
The topics characterising the negotiations and political debate were: support for local small and medium-sized enterprises; maximisation of synergies in the field of development cooperation, so as to avoid duplicating our efforts in southern countries and wasting resources; the nature of the EIB, which remains an investment bank that provides loans, competes on the international markets and does not provide unsecured funding; the geographical range of the EIB's investments, which have been extended to countries such as Libya and Iraq, but not to countries such as Belarus, in which respect for human rights as enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights must be a minimum requirement for action to be planned.
Therefore, we are voting today, among other things, on the demand for a more stringent evaluation of projects and the demand for the EIB to carry out, in advance, a thorough assessment of whether the investment really will contribute to the achievement of our development goals.
In order to achieve this, we also need to increase the transparency of the EIB's activities in those countries covered by the external mandate.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SV) Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent and professional work on this report.
In summary, I think that we worked well with the political groups and that the rapporteur has done a splendid job in finding solutions that mean we will most likely receive very broad support for the report when we vote on it in just over an hour's time.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to add my thanks to Mr Kalfin for his ambitious report and I would like to remind you once more that it was the European Court of Justice that demanded that the external mandate be approved under the codecision procedure.
In particular, we are talking about environmental infrastructure, better water supply and sanitation, and more funds for health and training, because we know for sure that these things contribute to securing the future in third countries and make a very important contribution to combating poverty.
An additional two billion is to be mobilised and, if we take our own objectives in the area of climate policy seriously, then naturally we must work with the EIB in this area.
With all the good ideas that have been put forward here in this House we also hope that the Council will not lag behind, but that it will support this ambitious political stance of the EIB and of Parliament.
It will enable the EIB better to meet its own goals regarding cooperation and development aid.
Let us also discuss something else, right now: how is it possible to be so careful regarding the guarantees that the taxpayer would have to give for combating poverty, and so forgetful of the way in which the European Union did not try to regulate the private banks or prevent the financial crimes in which they have been involved for all these years, and which are now being paid for with millions of unemployed?
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the European Investment Bank uses public funds from the nations of Europe to guarantee loans, either to financial intermediaries or to the ultimate recipients in 74 countries.
Bearing in mind that the EIB is making loans that are guaranteed by the EU, whose budget is financed by the European taxpayers, I encourage you all to vote against this report, which fails to adequately protect taxpayers' interests. (NL) Mr President, the EIB supports the foreign policy of the European Union, in particular the development policy.
There are some really wonderful countries that are receiving these EIB funds, such as the Palestinian territories, Gaza, Libya, Cuba, Venezuela, Turkmenistan and the Maldives.
We therefore choose to invest our taxpayers' money in a much cleverer way, in the foreign policy of the Member States, rather than in the foreign policy of the European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work that has been done regarding the external mandate of the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Loans granted to countries outside the EU require greater attention and care than projects to be realised within the EU, not only because of what has just been said but also because the degree of control that can be exercised over external developments is far less than is the case for investments within the EU.
The security and progress of these countries serve the interests of the EU directly, as this is where the decisive part of the natural gas imports and a significant amount of the electricity imports of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltic come from.
Thus it is indispensable for the EIB to focus on supporting projects which directly or indirectly result in an increase of security and the security of supply.
In other words, our various instruments, the European External Action Service, the European Investment Bank and the Commission must act in a consistent manner.
The Treaty of Lisbon also provides for greater parliamentary control, greater transparency and joint decisions on these matters.
All of this will enhance the quality of the debate on foreign policy, particularly if we have greater transparency as a result of the participation of the relevant committees - primarily the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Development - in this House.
With this in mind, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance tabled Amendments 6 and 7, which emphasise that all assessment documents must be made public and, in addition, that all documents pertaining to different projects must be available to the public.
We must show that human rights to the east of the European Union are as important to us as human rights in Africa or Asia.
I believe it would be contradictory to move in that direction and wonder whether it might not instead be more useful if the EIB were to increase its investments within Europe, by financing small and medium-sized enterprises to a greater extent, for example, a hope that Commissioner Tajani himself expressed in this Chamber on Monday.
If Mr Kalfin, when he was minister, and his fellow-ministers had been so diligent in defending the rights of Bulgarian citizens, I think that their party may still have been governing Bulgaria.
There is no doubt that the current economic crisis has seriously highlighted the important work of the European Investment Bank in the European Union.
For activities such as these, it is extremely important to ensure fiscal moderation and internal discipline, in order to ensure that money put into activities in support of the political objectives of the European Union brings the appropriate results in relation to the fiscal volumes.
Transparency in handling financial ... (PL) Mr President, in my opinion, European Investment Bank activity outside the European Union should take place in accordance with the values which are held in the Union itself and with the principles established as part of the European neighbourhood policy.
The Member States provide a guarantee within the Union, and the European Union provides a guarantee outside the Union.
The repayment would amount to some EUR 100 million, and at the same time we could provide a subsidy to the EIB depending on the projects it presents to us.
With regard to guarantees, I would draw attention to the fact that, with the Stability Fund - EUR 60 billion - and the 30 billion, we have practically a year's budget pledged by the European Union as a guarantee. (PL) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Kalfin, on a superb report, which in my opinion fully represents the position of the European Parliament.
I also welcome the proposal to increase the amounts covered by the guarantee in relation to the Union for the Mediterranean.
As regards the recent events which have taken place in the region - in Tunisia and Egypt or, for example, more recently in Libya - I am of the opinion that we should support the democracy which is coming into being there.
We are going to have to justify this to the taxpayers and voters in our home countries. (The President cut off the speaker) Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would just like to make some brief comments.
I would also like to clarify that the Bank and the budget are two different things.
The Bank is operating with shareholders' money, in this case capital paid in by the Member States.
The EU guarantee only covers sovereign and political risks and it has never created a loss for the EU budget since its creation in 1960.
in writing. - (HU) The budget guarantee provided by the European Union to the European Investment Bank (EIB) ensures the bank's stability and covers political or country-specific risks arising during the bank's activity, primarily for countries and projects which could only access funds from the capital market with difficulty, if at all.
