According to the latest research, around 120 new species of GMO will be in cultivation in the world by 2015.
This had a significant influence on the whole food and animal feed chain, because Europe is not able to meet its needs with internal production and is forced to import 14 million tonnes of soya beans annually. (HU) I would like to ask the President or the Parliament's Presidency to convey to the European Commission that in the course of my work, I submitted two queries in writing over a six-month period.
In the first instance, I received an answer after a serious delay, and I have still not received an answer to my second query, submitted on 30 November.
I therefore ask the President to call on the European Council to put on its agenda the strategic relationship between the EU and China, while Parliament should, in the future, deal with this question as befits China's importance. (RO) The top priority of the future European Commission must be to reduce the economic disparities between Member States by establishing close cooperation at fiscal and monetary policy level.
This could ensure that every Member State develops according to the stage its economy is at. (EL) Mr President, we have witnessed an unprecedented and coordinated attack over recent days on the economy of the Member States of the euro area, with the spread for government bonds in certain countries, such as Greece, Portugal and Spain, going off the scale.
Clearly, these countries are being used to strike at economic cohesion in the euro area in general and the euro in particular.
The Bureau has recommended expenditure in order to employ 150 more people, in Parliament and the political groups, to cope with the requirements of the Lisbon Treaty - a massive increase in expenditure at a time when so many of our citizens are facing public service cuts and tax rises.
Irrespective of the results of the elections, we need to formulate and consistently implement a new policy towards Ukraine, a European Union policy, in order to make it possible for that country to become a Member State of the European Union in the future.
In this context, the Prime Minister, José Sócrates, must now offer the Portuguese newspaper O País a substantial explanation, and must explain that he is not controlling, curtailing or censuring freedom of expression in Portugal.
The Parliament in Skopje is the third in the Western Balkans to have ratified and adopted the resolution, with 70 votes in favour and only one vote against.
As someone who participated in drafting this resolution, I wish to congratulate Members of the FYROM Parliament on their political courage and their contribution towards reconciliation in the region. (EL) Mr President, I should like to point out that, at this time of economic crisis, with some countries in recession, there are others, such as Greece, which need to sort out certain issues relating to questions of sexual equality, given that this crisis is hitting women harder than men.
The government also intends to bring in new water charges for home owners which could be between EUR 500 and EUR 1 000 per year.
It is for these reasons that we, together with other fellow Members from l'Italia dei Valori and the Partito Democratico parties, have submitted a complaint to the Commission.
I know, Mr President, that you have already intervened personally in the matter of the very high fine imposed on Angelika Borys, and I would like to thank you for your intervention, because we are, truly, under an obligation to help that organisation.
On 15 December, Mr Barrot undertook to promote a European Charter on the rights of victims of terrorism.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have prolonged our session of one-minute speeches by 15 minutes.
