Immediate EU measures in support of Italy and other Member States affected by exceptional migratory flows (debate) The next item is the debate on the immediate EU measures in support of Italy and other Member States affected by exceptional migratory flows.
This is a matter of importance for the whole EU, not just a bilateral issue.
The current situation in Lampedusa should not undermine our intention to offer assistance and support to these emerging democracies and the young generation that so passionately and peacefully has been able to achieve fundamental political changes.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, the humanitarian emergency in Italy and, in particular, on the island of Lampedusa - because this is what it is, a humanitarian emergency - compels us to act urgently.
Firstly, a veritable Marshall Plan for Tunisia and Egypt which would provide tangible help across the board but, at the same time, expect in return the full cooperation of the Tunisian authorities in blocking their coasts so as not to allow further illegal emigration by sea.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot, in truth, discuss the problem of Lampedusa without keeping one thing in mind: in Tunisia, under President Ben Ali, there was a law, which has still not been repealed, which made emigration a crime.
This is the real political challenge that Europe must face up to. (NL) Mr President, we have a real emergency in Europe.
The European border appears to be as leaky as a sieve.
Instead, he should spend a bit less time skirt-chasing and get to work sending all these immigrants back to Africa. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank the Commissioner for her efforts and for the efforts she will continue to make in dealing with this humanitarian emergency.
We asked the Council to look at the issue of having a European strategy to deal not so much with the problem of immigration and illegal immigration, but rather the question of democracy and freedom across the whole Mediterranean area.
I wanted to ask my fellow Member how he acquired the belief that the people in Lampedusa are Islamists and delinquents, and whether he possesses any personal information allowing him to confirm this or whether it is, in fact, the result of his own fantasies. (NL) Mr President, surely it is common knowledge that the people from Libya who are arriving there are, for the most part, Islamic people, and that there are quite a few criminals, and even terrorists, amongst them?
In your response, Commissioner, I would like to know precisely when the Italian Government asked the European Commission to intervene, because there have been certain controversies, of which you are well aware. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over 5 000 immigrants have arrived in Italy in the last few hours, while another 100 000 are setting out for Italy, France and Germany.
The Tunisian Minister for Justice has confirmed that some 11 000 prisoners, terrorists and criminals are hiding amongst the illegal immigrants.
Back in 2008, this island made the headlines because 40 000 refugees landed there in that year.
There is a real risk that the dignity and decorum of many refugees may suffer with the inevitable delays, although we are certain that Mrs Malmström will once again make sure her words are well received. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current flood of migrants is a serious problem, and it is a European one.
The first level concerns the immediate situation.
The second level is more strictly political in nature.
Solidarity and responsibility are therefore required, along with, above all, truth when talking about a common European immigration policy, which is now more necessary than ever. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has long been like the Sleeping Beauty on matters of immigration, and we are now paying the price for the time wasted.
The problem we are discussing is both technical and political.
Therefore, harsh measures of the type some Members have recently taken against people from other EU Member States, if adopted, will only discredit the EU - this time not only internally, but also externally. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Commissioner for being so immediately willing and far-sighted in offering Italy assistance, although the assistance was rejected in the first instance by the Italian Government itself.
However, I wonder, and I ask you all: what has happened to the money that Europe has been pouring into Tunisia all these years and which it is still pouring into Libya, which - as we know - are democratic regimes?
The situation is extremely serious and it may also get worse from a public health point of view, since water has perhaps already begun to run out in Lampedusa.
We must therefore allow her to reply to your questions, which will otherwise remain unanswered. (MT) Mr President, indeed, we have been talking about this tragedy that has been taking place in the Mediterranean for years, and I am afraid to say, you have taken no heed.
Instead, we are making a humanitarian crisis out of the fact that one of the greatest world powers, Italy, is having to tackle the problem of taking in 5 000 people.
We have to realise that what is being discussed at the moment is not the problem of Frontex or how to stop the boats, but the fact that we are dealing with peoples whom we have urged to fight for democracy and, now that they are doing so, we must be in a position to receive them.
It would be wonderful, Commissioner, if these windmills that we have been building for years could also see the mark of an attentive and effective Europe that joins us in building them. (NL) Mr President, it seems rather ironic that, just as the first signs of freedom and democracy have begun to emerge in Tunisia, a wave of refugees has been unleashed.
For that reason, it is just as inevitable that the Commission should aim to send a large number of people back to Tunisia, precisely in order to set an example for the future, given that it is possible that more refugees from Middle Eastern countries will follow. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the exceptional flow of immigrants besetting the Italian coast and, hence, the whole of Europe, must spur us on to developing a common approach at last for managing this phenomenon.
In this respect, the ongoing talks between the Italian authorities and the Commission are well on the way to providing a response to the humanitarian crisis that we have been discussing.
With all due respect to Mr Crocetta, I have to point out that the problem is not so much the 5 000 people who have arrived so far but the potentially momentous scale of the upheavals and the many thousand more refugees who could arrive on our shores if we send out clear political messages.
Then perhaps you would see the change and the challenges being experienced in Tunisia, and you would be able to monitor the situation and be their champion in the Commission. (SL) Madam President, we are witnessing a new humanitarian tragedy on the European Union's doorstep.
We need a rapid response now. (NL) Madam President, very well, democratic developments may be afoot in North Africa, but they are also bringing with them obligations for Europe.
The problems of North Africa cannot be resolved in southern Europe.
The downside, of course, is that in the short term at least, we have a refugee and asylum problem, particularly in Italy.
Tomorrow, it will be in Malta and Crete.
In Tunisia, there is, of course, as most of you have said, a very hopeful situation and we all support the democratic development there.
We are reviewing the neighbourhood policy plan because events have made it necessary and we are looking at the whole region - in particular Egypt, but also the other countries - in order to maximise the different tools, funds and policies that we have at our disposal and to tailor them much more adequately to the recent developments in the region.
In fact, over 4 000 refugees from nearby Tunisia have been recorded landing on the island of Lampedusa in the last four days alone.
It should also be borne in mind that the local council is tackling this crisis without the appropriate resources and facilities that the situation requires.
