Progress made on resettling Guantánamo detainees and on closing Guantánamo (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on progress made on resettling Guantánamo detainees and on closing Guantánamo.
Madam President, as you know, the European Union welcomed the promise made by President Obama to close the Guantánamo detention centre.
He made the promise in his inauguration speech, and this was later endorsed by a joint declaration of the European Union and its Member States with the United States on 15 June last year.
We are also finding that this issue is very controversial in the United States, although we welcome the fact that President Obama is persevering with his intention to close Guantánamo despite the strong opposition that he is facing in Congress, not only among the Republicans but also among the Democrats.
However, in any case, some prisoners have now left Guantánamo and are going to be tried in ordinary US courts, such as, for example, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged brains behind the 11 September attacks, despite the concern that this generated in the United States.
We have therefore always been clear about our position in our contacts with the United States as well as recently, in the visit to Brussels by the United States' special envoy on this issue, Daniel Fried, who was formerly responsible for relations between the United States and the European Union and who is now responsible for managing the closure of Guantánamo.
I believe that the European Union has fulfilled its agreement with the United States, an agreement that was set out in the joint declaration that I mentioned earlier.
There are Member States that have already agreed to receive people who have been or are prisoners in Guantánamo, and the number that we can handle at the moment, among the European countries who have quantified the number of prisoners, along with Switzerland, which is a partner of the European Union in the Schengen area, is around 16.
We can say that there were 242 prisoners in the detention centre when President Obama came to power, and that 44 of them have left the prison.
As already mentioned by the Minister, the European Union established a two-tier framework to support the closure of Guantánamo, firstly through the Justice and Home Affairs Council conclusion of 4 June 2009 and the annexed information exchange mechanism and, secondly, through the Joint Statement of the European Union and its Member States and the United States of America on the Closure of the Guantánamo Bay Detention Facility and Future Counter-Terrorism Cooperation of 15 June 2009.
In the context of the abovementioned statement on the closure of Guantánamo, on 16 June 2009 the President of the Council wrote to the co-chair of the US Detention Policy Task Force.
The European Commission appreciates the steps taken so far by President Obama to close Guantánamo and hopes to see further progress on this in the future.
Madam President, Mr López Garrido, Commissioner, I would first of all like to point out that the European Parliament has expressed its opinion on the situation of the prisoners in Guantánamo on various occasions through various resolutions.
However, this response has been late in coming and is limited to bilateral understandings between the United States and some Member States.
It is shocking that large countries that were accomplices of Bush in the extraordinary renditions, in the secret prisons and in Guantánamo, such as Germany, the UK, Italy, Poland and Romania, should shirk their responsibilities by ignoring the appeals of the Obama Administration.
This is a topic for the common foreign and security policy, which should be dealt with by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, in view of Article 24 of the Treaty of Lisbon, and it must be based on mutual political solidarity among the Member States.
It falls to the High Representative, now equipped with the power of initiative, under Article 30 of the treaty, to propose and lead a true European strategy to assist in the closing of Guantánamo as quickly as possible, ensuring the necessary support for the individual recovery and social reintegration of released persons, including their right to family reunification.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, some European governments actively participated in illegal rendition, torture and illegal detention.
It does not help that the United States is unable to settle any of the 17 Uighurs in US territory.
Parliament may, of course, be in a key position to encourage Member States to try and establish a common policy with regard to closing Guantánamo.
It is very obvious that Guantánamo is still a glaring symbol of injustice and that its closure is in the interests of the European Union.
We also told them that we did not just want to talk about where to place the Guantánamo detainees, but that at the same time, we also wanted to discuss with the United States the notion that their policy on the care of the prisoners and their penal code needed to be reformed comprehensively in order for it to comply with the principles of the rule of law.
I would like to point out that we have also talked about this during Barack Obama's Presidency, and so it seems this problem is not something we can attribute exclusively to the dreadful and evil administration of George Bush junior.
Mr Czarnecki, will you accept a question from Mrs Hautala? (PL) Madam President, I was referring to the statement of the respected fellow Member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance who spoke before me. (FI) Madam President, Mr Czarnecki perhaps does not know that on 22 December 2009, a European government admitted for the first time that there had been such a secret detention centre on its own territory.
Almost 800 people from over forty countries have been detained there in disregard of the Geneva Convention - without charge, without a lawyer and without a trial.
I will perhaps finish with one last thought: the use of Guantánamo Bay as a torture prison constitutes a clear violation of the original lease agreement, and Baroness Ashton and the other Members of the Commission responsible for foreign policy should perhaps join with me in calling on the US Government to draw a symbolic line under this disgraceful chapter and give Guantánamo back to Cuba.
Slovakia, Italy and other Member States have declared their willingness to accept detainees.
Finally and fundamentally, it should first be clarified conclusively why the prisoners in question cannot also be accommodated in the United States. (PT) Mr López Garrido, Commissioner, Guantánamo was one of the biggest mistakes of the Bush Administration.
President Obama was entirely correct when he declared that it was essential to close Guantánamo in order to give back to the United States of America the moral authority which it lost by the use of extra-judicial instruments in the fight against terrorism.
President Obama made the decision on his first day in the White House to suspend the trials before military tribunals and to announce the closure of the Guantánamo base.
In the Council, deeply divided by the issue of the Iraq war, it was possible for all the Ministers for Foreign Affairs to be unanimous in demanding the closure of Guantánamo.
Mr López Garrido, Commissioner, in expressing my concern at the delay in the situation in America, I should like to ask: what, in your opinion, might the European Union still do to assist?
However, the self-imposed deadline of 22 January for the closure of Guantánamo has passed and there are still 192 prisoners.
Spain and other European Union countries are doing this on the basis of the joint declaration of 15 June which has been mentioned and which established a shared framework for receiving detainees.
Its opening could perhaps be more easily understood in the wake of the shocking attacks of 11 September, but years have passed since.
Yet, the disgrace of Guantánamo continues and, in fact, all of us who believe in the values of Western civilisation, such as respect for human rights and the rule of law, continue to feel ashamed of it.
Everyone knows, however, that the closure of Guantánamo will not stop questions being asked about human rights and counterterrorism, either in the United States or in Europe.
Mrs Hautala rightly spoke of the parliamentary investigation concluded on 22 December by Lithuania.
However, it is very easy to see that closing down Guantánamo is going to be a very complicated process, and that no one wants to help with this.
We do, of course, support these conclusions, as well as the conference that was held in London on 27 January.
Moreover, I believe, in any case, that the fact that human rights violations take place in other countries of the world or in Europe does not mean that this situation should not be criticised or that we should not work to ensure that it does not happen again.
It is important for us to be in line with this.
Therefore, as Mrs Gomes said, we need to promote cooperation between the United States and the European Union, but also cooperation between the Member States of the Union.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all, I want to reiterate that we believe that it is in the interests of all of us in the European Union to close the Guantánamo detention centre, and, as I have stated before, the Commission expects further progress on closing Guantánamo in the near future to be made by the American Administration.
In response to Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra's question about the 50 detainees whose fate is not decided yet, we believe that the US Administration will proceed with those 50 cases and they will achieve a state or solution similar to those achieved in the previous ones.
