Human rights, social and environmental standards in International Trade agreements - International Trade Policy in the context of Climate Change imperatives - Corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports on the subject of international trade: by Mrs Saïfi, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements; by Mr Jadot, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on international trade policy in the context of climate change imperatives; by Mr Désir, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements.
As you know, the GSP requires the ratification of some 30 international conventions on human and labour rights, environmental protection and good governance.
To conclude, some of these actions can be taken now, but attitudes will not change overnight.
When we drafted this report - and I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various groups - we tried to be as constructive as possible.
We no longer say that trade liberalisation and combating climate change will destroy 100% of our industries in Europe, where, in a way, we do not care, because the climate issue must take precedence.
I would just say once again that I hope that the cooperative, constructive spirit in which we drafted this report will be reflected in the vote tomorrow and, once again, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the work they have done.
From the Bhopal disaster at the subsidiary of a chemical multinational in India, which claimed thousands of victims and for which the parent company has still not been punished to this day, to the behaviour of oil and mining companies in Africa, in Burma, and in many other countries, which is destroying their environment and reducing their workers to the rank of slaves; and from child labour in Asian textile factories to the murder of trade unionists on agricultural holdings in Central America, the examples are legion.
The progress made in corporate social responsibility (CSR) is not yet on a par with the debate on social standards in trade agreements, the subject of the report by Mrs Saïfi.
I have been a Member of this House for 13 years and I know very well that when the interpreters can no longer keep up, they press a button and a bulb on my desk lights up.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me assure you that if ever I were to run the 100 metres, it would take me at least 15 seconds, so there is no major problem with me - at least not in that respect.
The EU has a general interest in improving international governance, including through increased coherence between actions in different fora: the WTO, the ILO, the international climate negotiations, and so on.
The three reports outline several possible directions of work in this respect.
The reports under consideration today include very specific orientations on possible avenues for increasing the scope, effectiveness, consistency and transparency of our actions as regards social and environmental provisions in FTAs, including provisions on CSR or climate change issues.
These standards are an extremely important matter, not only for world trade, but also for cooperation on development, and even more importantly, for the pursuit of values which we call fundamental values.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - Mr President, as this Parliament's rapporteur on corporate social responsibility for over three parliamentary terms now, I strongly welcome my colleague, Harlem Désir's initiative on trade and CSR.
The result of this was to overload trade policy with the responsibility for making up for all these shortcomings.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - (NL) Mr President, Mrs Saïfi has produced a sound report.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr De Gucht, ladies and gentlemen, there is a good reason why we are discussing these three reports in a joint debate.
I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for their excellent work.
Although we welcome the fact that companies are living up to their social responsibilities on their own initiative, it is a fact that thousands of people throughout the world discover every day that their rights at best exist only on paper and are simply ignored in their day-to-day working life.
Now, on a personal level I have great respect for the rapporteurs of these three reports, but the philosophy which underpins the reports has been put forward at many elections and mostly voted down.
I am certain that including such clauses in international agreements will contribute to greater recognisability of instruments of corporate social responsibility and to promoting and encouraging businesses themselves to apply them more extensively.
However, the battle against climate change both locally and globally must be a matter of constant concern for all countries in the world.
Indeed, if competition is free then all forms of dumping are possible, starting with tax, social, monetary and environmental dumping.
The report refers to its apparent negative impacts on climate change.
I would like to make it quite clear that the priority here is food security for our 500 million citizens.
I have a strong obligation to the citizens of the EU and, therefore, I cannot support this passage in the report. (CS) Mr President, I am very closely involved in the new strategy on international trade.
This must apply both to ACP countries and to China.
We want to move away from a logic in which a euro profit from trade is matched by two euros lost on the environment or in social costs.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think this has been a very rich debate.
I would simply like to ask that, later on when you will have to discuss this, you take into account the fact that the ideas of individual third countries on such a sustainability chapter may concern not only the content of it but also the philosophy of certain third countries on this issue.
Where I think we must be careful, however, is in recognising that the many elements which need to come into play to provide a satisfactory response to the climate change challenge - from emission caps to financing - cannot be translated into provisions in our trade agreements.
I think there is a wider forum for that and, provided that there is an agreement in the wider forum, then of course such an agreement has to be reflected in the bilateral free trade agreements.
I should like to begin by thanking all the speakers, particularly the shadow rapporteurs, as well as my colleagues Mr Jadot and Mr Désir for our cooperation.
I believe it is a very strong request, and if these reports receive broad support tomorrow, this will indeed be - and I want to believe it will be - an extremely important signal from the European Parliament to the Commission and to the Council.
We can therefore see that the challenges concerning the way in which to integrate social and environmental issues into production costs are an important factor in terms of defining the reality of comparative advantages.
I should especially like to thank my colleagues and the Commissioner for his reply.
What has been striking in this debate is the very broad consensus extending beyond the differences between groups.
I believe that, through the dialogue we have begun today with the Commission, we must continue to ensure that our CSR objectives and our sustainable development objectives are consistent with each other in international trade agreements.
Thank you very much, Mr Désir.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 25 November 2010, at 12:00.
