Madam President, today, in Athens, three people lost their first human right: the right to life.
The Council has also very closely followed the debates and hearings held by Parliament in March of this year, and is very much taking into account the opinions expressed by Parliament in the draft report drawn up by Ramón Jáuregui Atondo, Kinga Gál and Cristian Dan Preda.
In political terms accession means that the European Union reaffirms the pivotal role played by the Convention's system for the protection of human rights in Europe - in an enlarged Europe, not only in the European Union - but by acceding to this Convention the European Union puts its weight behind the Strasbourg system, and this is a system of external judicial control in the area of fundamental rights because now we are submitting our legal order fully and formally to that control.
Likewise, the accession of the European Union may not affect either the situation of individual Member States in relation to the European Court of Human Rights or the protocols there or the reservations.
I know that the Spanish Presidency is doing everything in order to bring these discussions forward.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs of the AFCO and LIBE Committees, Mr Jáuregui and Mrs Gál, for their excellent cooperation on the file, and the hearing which was organised by the AFCO Committee on 18 March was really of great use.
Madam President, I do not believe that it is necessary on such a day to underline once more how important fundamental rights are for Europe and how important they are for all the acts we are proposing.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (ES) Madam President, if I had to reduce what we are talking about today down to a single idea, I would say loud and clear to the European public that for the first time they are going to have a court that guarantees their human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to the European Union and their own countries, when they are implementing Union law.
As Member States of the European Union we have laws, statutes and deeply rooted European values that safeguard our rights.
Unfortunately, this is not always the case, as there are Member States that violate fundamental rights in the EU.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FI) Madam President, it is very important that we think of human rights as having intrinsic value, although they also have instrumental value, which I realise when I speak to representatives of third countries in my capacity as Chair of the Subcommittee on Human Rights.
Madam President, the effects of signing the accession agreement of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms will be limited, it would seem, because the Convention has been accepted as a measure of the standard of protection of human rights in Europe for a long time.
This Convention is not one entered into by the European Union but by its quasi-twin, the Council of Europe.
If a country violates its citizen's rights as set out in and provided by the Convention, then that citizen has the right to approach the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and seek legal redress or enforcement of his or her rights against that country.
This document is among the most progressive documents in the field of fundamental rights.
At the same time I believe it is important to take into account during the negotiations that the reform of the operation of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will coincide with the accession of the EU to the Convention.
The EU's accession to the Convention will be a unique experiment, but this must not threaten anything that is already functioning with regard to the enforcement of human rights.
Even though I currently share your enthusiasm - and of course the Council also deserves thanks for its very good work - we must prepare ourselves for the fact that the process will be very complicated and that we still have a lot of work to do in this direction. (PL) Mr President, the European Union is founded upon respect for human rights.
Mrs Beňová and Mrs Wikström have spoken about this.
Mr President, first of all let me thank both our rapporteurs - Kinga Gál and Ramón Jáuregui Atondo - and also the Commission and the Presidency. (ES) Thank you very much for the very hard but necessary work that you have done.
In fact, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will protect fundamental rights and liberties against EU actions.
Romania signed the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in 1993.
It is important to point out that Article 20 of the Romanian Constitution stipulates that international regulations governing fundamental human rights which Romania is party to take precedence over national laws. (HU) Commissioner, it is very important that the Council of Europe has a mechanism that was developed and has been functioning for decades, monitored by the European Court of Human Rights, and that the European Union will share it.
I have been saying for a long time that as far as the protection of human rights and minorities in Europe is concerned, it is of great concern that it is the Council of Europe which has a functioning system for the protection of human rights and minorities, while the real political weight in Europe lies with the Union.
Also, Mr President, I would like to send my regards and condolences to the families of the victims in Greece. (PL) The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is one of the foundations of the European theory of values, which defends the rights of the individual and human rights.
I think the European Union, acceding to the Convention under the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, should at the same time begin discussion and debate in the sense of profound reflection, so that this kind of distortion of individual freedom and falsely understood human rights does not happen again in the future. (PL) Mr President, the European Parliament has many times adopted resolutions condemning cases of breaches of human rights and freedoms in different parts of the world.
It is therefore not only nationals of the Member States, but also those who are not nationals of the Member States who will be protected by this Convention if the Union signs it.
I would like to thank specifically the two rapporteurs, who have done very important work in order to bring Parliament towards agreeing to the basic mandate, but the basic mandate, as has also been said in this House, is only the beginning, because we have to negotiate.
So, Mr President, I foresee that I will have to come back very often - with pleasure, of course - to this House in order to report on how we stand, how we are advancing, what the problems are and what the solutions are.
Finally, and most importantly, what relations should be adopted between the two courts - the Court of Justice in Luxembourg and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg?
in writing. - (DE) With the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) the EU is creating a few problems for itself.
The European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) is the most important instrument for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe.
In 2009, almost 60 000 complaints were submitted to the Court, which represents a growth of 20% compared to 2008.
