The petitioners assert that the local threshold for carrying out an environmental impact assessment (EIA), which was 20 hectares at the time, was not adhered to; that instead, the project was artificially subdivided into smaller parts and that in reality, the 20 hectare threshold was exceeded.
As an aside, a 10 hectare threshold has since been introduced in Austria.
When we investigated locally, we concluded that the provisions concerning environmental impact assessments, as applicable in Austria, were complied with at the time - at least in essence.
There are also cases of projects being subdivided locally as far as their legal arrangement is concerned, which gives rise to the question of how much this is permitted by our European legislation - deliberately or otherwise - and whether things need to be tightened up in this respect.
Austria replied that it had not had to carry out an EIA because the threshold of 20 hectares had not been reached.
The decision as to whether an EIA is necessary when a ski area is expanded now depends overall on the size of the enlargement in land area and whether it lies within a designated nature conservation area.
We have also asked the authorities in Austria to confirm to us that in the event of the future expansion of this or other ski areas which met the criteria under the old version of the Austrian act on environmental impact assessments, screening will first be carried out to ascertain whether an EIA is necessary.
The Commission will take action to ensure that the Austrian authorities look at the environmental impact of the work that has already been carried out in order to ensure that in any future expansion of the ski area in the region around Damüls-Mellau, the requirements of our directive are applied in accordance with the rules.
However, as we must be aware and must take into consideration, a beautiful, intact environment is also a part of skiing, and people will not go skiing where this no longer exists.
Madam President, we have a case that can help us resolve an issue that the Commission has, in fact, acknowledged, that has also been raised by Mr Jahr, and that we are going to include in the annual report that will be presented by the Committee on Petitions in the discussions regarding 2010.
I am referring to the ability that many Member States have to evade the European directive requiring an environmental impact assessment for public or private projects in very sensitive areas in the European ecosystem, such as the Alps in this case, or it could be the Pyrenees in Spain.
I believe that in both the European Parliament and in the European Commission, we have to work to speed up the procedure. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the environmental impact assessment is, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to determine and assess the direct impact of projects on the environment, but also their indirect effects.
The European Court of Justice ruled back in 1996 that Member States must ensure that the aim of the directive cannot be circumvented by subdividing projects.
In its 2003 report on the application and effectiveness of the EIA Directive, the Commission found that the roots of the multiple problems that were hindering the effectiveness of the EIA provisions lay not necessarily in the implementation of the directive at national level, but rather in its practical application.
Criticism of the lack of public participation is something that can be heard in nearly all the Member States.
The provincial government in Vorarlberg and the local administration tried to apply this Austrian law on the environment to the best of their ability.
Here, one must bear in mind that the legal traditions in Austria and also in the European Union vary widely.
I must point out to my fellow Member that I believe that Austria tried to do things properly.
Yesterday, we voted in favour of the principle of independence in the impact assessment system.
However, as I have already underlined, autonomy, appropriate analysis and the independence of experts must be guaranteed, and everything should be done according to the rules, as provided for by legislation. (DE) Madam President, Mr Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, this discussion once again highlights the fact that with regard to the whole area of the environment, we have a major communication problem.
I am calling on everyone to work on raising awareness and to acknowledge on both sides that we need to preserve the environment in order for the economy to continue functioning effectively in future. (CS) Madam President, Austria once voted against the nuclear power plant in Zwentendorf in order to get rid of a regional chancellor, and in doing so created a structure unique in Europe - a model atomic power plant built on a scale of 1:1.
Secondly, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Act in Austria needs to be amended or expanded to ensure that it corresponds with the European Union directives, in other words, with your requirements.
Thirdly, we believe it is important that, when other measures are taken in this region, whether these are additional car parks or other developments, a special screening of the entire project is carried out which includes existing developed areas and existing building projects.
I hope that in Austria in particular, lessons will have been learnt from this case about taking a sensitive approach when weighing up the interests of the economy and the environment and, therefore, that the case will have a positive impact in future.
