Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (NL) I voted against the Tavares report, as the introduction of a joint resettlement programme is the umpteenth step towards a completely uniform European asylum policy.
One does not need to be a clairvoyant to be able to predict even now that a uniform policy such as this will lead to a large increase in the number of asylum seekers in the Member States.
The recital in the report stating that the introduction of a joint resettlement programme would make illegal immigration less attractive is particularly disagreeable.
This hypocritical pseudo-argument resurfaces time and again when votes are held in this House on texts concerning immigration or asylum.
In countries such as Belgium, illegal immigration usually occurs when people go underground following their asylum procedure and are subsequently rewarded with regularisation.
This kind of thing must be combated, and a joint resettlement programme by no means offers a solution. (CS) We have passed a directive that will undoubtedly open up further opportunities for research into the energy efficiency of buildings and will contribute to savings in relation to the heating of buildings.
On the other hand, we must fight more effectively against illegal migration.
At this point, I feel I must emphasise that resettlement pursues not only a humanitarian aim, but also the political and economic goal of relieving third countries of the burden of accepting large numbers of refugees, and the equally great burden of sharing costs and financial responsibilities.
We believe, however, that one budget line and one form of financial support are not enough and so we urge Member States to promote the creation of further private financing mechanisms, encouraging public-private partnerships with NGOs and other social partners, such as religious and ethnic organisations, in order to help promote voluntary work in this sector.
Finally, we propose a firm commitment from all those involved to offering refugees, especially the most vulnerable, access to appropriate housing, education and language courses, health care, psychological services, as well as access to the job market, which is essential to ensure that they become properly integrated. (CS) I am pleased that the report of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality has received such broad support in today's vote.
I am curious as to whether they will take advantage of this criticism, or merely engage in endless empty talk. (LT) I voted for this report and feel it is important to stress that on average, women in the European Union are still being paid less for every hour they work - 17.4% less than men.
I agree with Parliament's call for the preparation of regular reports on the gender pay gap in the European Union, and I support all measures to help reduce discrimination against women in the European Union. (CS) We approved the controversial proposal because our IMCO committee broadened and enhanced it by introducing country of origin labelling for the European Union as well.
It committed budgetary funds for aid to banana producers in those regions.
However, I want to comment on the winding-up remarks made by Commissioner Cioloş.
It does not make sense, and I hope the Commissioner hears these views. (HU) I support this report because it simplifies the enormous administrative and bureaucratic burden currently weighing down farmers.
I am very confident that as a result of the report, a new form of relationship will emerge between the officials responsible for implementing the common agricultural policy in Member States, especially in post-communist states like Hungary, and farmers.
I think it is very important that responsibility does not rest only with farmers, who have hitherto had to pay fines for every petty incident, but that the state, too, assumes responsibility, such as when the office is late in paying farmers what they are owed.
Claims for such payments should be enforceable in a court of law by both farmers and clients. (IT) I voted in favour of the Ashworth report because I believe that simplifying and reducing bureaucratic procedures relating to the CAP, the common agricultural policy, is not only desirable, but necessary so that European farmers can take full advantage of its benefits, and not, as so often happens, encounter administrative difficulties and delays.
So a key aspect of the new CAP must be a reduction in the amount of red tape and bureaucracy.
However, not only streamlining of legislation is important but also flexibility for Member States and, most importantly, with the Commission and the European Court of Auditors.
We have the overarching inspection for cross compliance by competent authorities, but farmers are increasingly facing other levels and layers of inspections from processors, from retailers, from all sorts of groups; we need a little bit of coordination and not duplication of inspections.
To my mind, there is very good reason now to focus attention on our ability to simplify the processes that relate to agriculture in the European Union.
I hope we see many of them and, in due course, eliminate the need for the word 'simplification' to be introduced, because it should be there automatically. (FI) Madam President, I voted in favour of the report, but I voted wrongly in the allimportant Article 34, under Amendment 5.
It is high time the European Parliament sat in just one location, and I am very glad that the new government in the United Kingdom has decided that this matter should be raised as part of its programme.
I hope that the other Member States will also make it their concern.
It is a matter of the environment, and it is a matter of costs.
As long as the European Parliament is able to spend as much money as it does now on a rally of this nature, we will continue to ignore the economic crisis. (IT) As regards the Ţicău report, I voted in favour of the common position on updating the directive on the energy performance of buildings, because the aim is that, from the end of 2020, all newly constructed buildings will have an energy balance equal to zero, an aim that the European institutions must make every effort to achieve.
Energy saving and energy efficiency effectively represent a source of energy production.
I will now move on to the explanation of vote for the Rühle report. (IT) I voted in favour because I think it is important for Parliament to support the simplification and rationalisation of public procurement law.
This will make work easier both for administrative bodies and for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which will find it easier to participate in tenders.
I consider it essential to refer to the use of public procurement as a means of encouraging paths of sustainable development, by introducing environmental and social criteria within invitations to tender.
I also think that it is the duty of this Parliament and of the European institutions to continue pressing for all-round transparency surrounding the use of public money, particularly with regard to public procurement, using all possible means and especially the Internet.
Citizen control represents a crucial contribution for using public funds in a way that is genuinely in the collective interest and, as the Committee on Regional Development reminds us, for fighting the corruption that prevails within local and regional authorities. (CS) Public procurement is unfortunately an area suffering from one of the highest levels of corruption.
I regard paragraph 44 as deeply disturbing.
I had thought that Mrs Alfano was going to carry on in a similar vein to Mrs Jäätteenmäki, but in fact, that report should not have had any explanations of vote.
In addition, this interpretation must be clear for, and known to, everyone involved in applying legislation on Europe's roads.
I am therefore in favour of the proposed measures for the harmonisation and levelling of offences and the relative European penalties, and of the possible setting up of a coordinating instrument at European Union level.
This European Asylum Support Office must therefore provide the Member States with expert assistance and contribute to applying a consistent and high-quality common European asylum policy.
The creation of this new office will, without doubt, be an added value for the reinforcement of mutual confidence and sharing of responsibilities between the Member States.
It is important to confront the significant divergences in the decision-making processes of the 27 Member States regarding international protection requests and to successfully achieve a certain amount of convergence in how the Member States analyse and respond to these requests.
Issues relating to immigration and, especially, the right to asylum are particularly sensitive.
The establishment of a European Asylum Support Office could constitute an important step towards the adoption of best practices in this area, giving Member States greater confidence in each other, and resulting in the improved exchange of information.
The creation of a European office, to support the Member States in this area of intervention with citizens of third countries, will be a determining factor in applying a common European asylum system and the solidarity of Member States in consistent action that fits with the values and principles of the project of building Europe.
I voted in favour of the creation of the European Asylum Support Office in the hope that it will allow a certain added value to be brought to a European asylum system that today is clearly flawed.
Hopefully, this office will at least have the merit of contributing to improved identification of asylum issues and problems, in order to ensure the best possible protection for people who are the victims of persecution and are seeking refuge in our country.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of setting up the European Asylum Support Office as, in the case of Member States whose national asylum system is under pressure, the Office can support the implementation of solidarity mechanisms intended to promote a better reallocation of beneficiaries of international protection from such Member States to others, while ensuring that asylum systems are not abused.
It is vital for us to harmonise both our asylum laws and practices.
Furthermore, I believe that the European Asylum Support Office's activities should also include drawing up guidelines aimed at facilitating a fairer assessment of asylum applications, as well as monitoring compliance with and enforcement of the relevant Community legislation.
This office will be responsible for providing specialised assistance.
It will run training programmes aimed at those responsible for this sector within each country, contributing to greater harmonisation between the various practices.
The biggest political question remains the relationship between human solidarity and the division of financial burdens: the EU is called upon to offer effective support to States most affected by migratory flows and by a high number of asylum seekers, and which face specific and often disproportionate pressures due to their relatively small size.
On such a sensitive subject, relating to human rights, the creation of a European Asylum Support Office is important in enabling specialised assistance at EU level to define a consistent and high-quality common European asylum policy.
The Asylum Support Office could represent a very useful body, specifically if it took on a coordinating role in relation to repatriation and thus accelerated repatriation measures.
As a result, the support would also be helpful for resettlement.
I have therefore abstained from voting.
I express my support for the proposal to create a European Asylum Support Office.
The role of this office, initially financed by the European Refugee Fund, will be to provide the specialised assistance needed to activate a common asylum policy, and to coordinate information exchanges and actions relating to the resettlement of refugees.
The Asylum Support Office will make a decisive contribution to the integration of a single European asylum area.
The Office will also help to promote convergence between regulatory arrangements which apply in the EU in the field of asylum rights.
Bearing all these benefits in mind and the consent of both the Member States and the European institutions to the establishment of the European Office, I was delighted to vote in favour of its establishment.
I am thinking particularly of the huge amount of energy recovery work required in existing building stock, such as social housing, where energy renovation (which would help families to cut their utility bills) will require a significant financial commitment by local authorities.
This directive is a good compromise between encouragement and constraint where environmentally responsible construction is concerned.
The construction sector is responsible for 40% of the EU's energy consumption and 35% of its emissions.
This legislation stipulates that by 2020, new buildings must be nearly zero energy and that renovated existing buildings must meet minimum energy performance requirements.
This legislation will therefore contribute to reducing energy dependency in Europe, decreasing CO2 emissions, improving internal and external air quality, and increasing well-being in cities.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Member States to use the Structural Funds to reclassify buildings in environmental and energy terms, with this financing used as a catalyst for private funding.
I also call on them to find the appropriate financing model for renovating existing buildings.
Today, 30% of existing homes in Europe are unhealthy, even if there is a great disparity between the different Member States.
It is therefore important not only to promote new sustainable buildings, but also to carry out sustainable renovation.
I welcome this new legislation, which will help consumers to reduce their energy bills and the whole of the EU to achieve its climate objective of reducing energy consumption by 20% in 10 years.
The Member States will have to adapt their building regulations so that all buildings constructed from the end of 2020 comply with high energy standards.
We therefore call on the Member States to establish a tax system that is reoriented to encourage all the parties involved to behave in a more environmentally responsible way.
I regard this report as being beneficial to the future of the European Union's energy sector, as long as the objectives outlined in it are feasible and compatible with the financial situation of all Member States.
However, the Commission and Council must bear in mind that many Member States are still facing economic recession and will require financial and logistical support to achieve the objectives being proposed.
The Commission must consider for the future drawing up a financial intervention plan based on allocating development funds that will support Member States which are unable to allocate the necessary funds, especially for renovation work.
This measure must be seen as beneficial to ordinary citizens as they are the ones who are footing the bill for part of the renovation costs.
I voted for the recommendation on the energy performance of buildings, because it presents ambitious and feasible proposals for a 20% reduction in energy consumption and CO2 emissions in the sectors not covered by the emissions trading scheme by 2020.
This directive will have a direct effect on the lives of the European public, as it will help consumers to cut their spending on energy and, at the same time, it can contribute to creating millions of jobs throughout the EU through the planned investments in improved energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources.
In 2008, the EU committed itself to a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 and for 20% of energy consumed to come from renewable sources.
On 13 November 2008, the Commission tabled its proposed amendment to Directive 2002/91/EC on the energy performance of buildings.
As the current draft is based on the agreement reached between Parliament and the Council in November 2009, I support the rapporteur's proposal.
The adoption of this directive relating to the energy performance of buildings is an important step towards reducing Europe's CO2 emissions and energy dependency.
These factors are increasingly decisive for the European public's quality of life, and the competitiveness of our economy and social organisation.
As well as helping private consumers and public services to cut energy costs, it is hoped that the application of this new legislation will help to fight the crisis in the civil construction sector and that it will contribute to developing urban regeneration programmes, which will have a positive impact on improving the quality of life and well-being of the public.
Improving the energy performance of buildings is particularly important in increasing the EU's general energy efficiency and in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
If the European Union wants to achieve the objectives that it is proposing, seeking to reduce energy consumption by 20%, to ensure that 20% of energy consumption comes from renewable sources and to increase energy efficiency by 20% before 2020, it will have to make a significant commitment to the energy performance of buildings.
The political agreement reached between Parliament and the Council has resulted in the clarification of technical aspects, minimum energy performance requirements depending on the age of a building and whether or not it has been renovated, evaluation of the role of local and regional authorities, and support for public authorities in applying the recommendations.
Nevertheless, we still have some concerns regarding the stronger role for the Commission in evaluating national plans and inspection reports, as well as the adaptations to the Treaty of Lisbon, which focus more power on the Commission through the so-called 'delegated acts'.
This effect can be reduced in cogeneration processes, which can achieve an efficiency rating of as much as 90%. 2.
Electrical resistance, or Ohm's resistance, which is important in the transmission of electrical energy. 3.
I voted in favour of the regulation without the amendments, because energy losses in residential buildings are - alongside conversion losses - the greatest, while savings will help poor people.
In Poland's case, thermal modernisation, alongside cogeneration, can bring economic, social and ecological benefits.
Public buildings will lead the way from 2018, giving public authorities more weight and legitimacy in their information campaigns for citizens.
An important step has been taken towards reducing energy consumption over the coming years with the adoption of this recommendation, which aims for nearly zero energy buildings by 2020.
The effort must be made not only when constructing new buildings, but also on large renovation projects involving already existing buildings.
It will also be crucial for a good example to be set in public construction projects.
The impact of energy demand cannot be clearly estimated, for which reason I voted 'no'.
The building sector was identified by the EU as one of the markets with the highest energy saving potential.
In the new EU Member States, including Lithuania, in many apartment blocks, around 60% of thermal energy is wasted.
Their inhabitants not only pay huge sums for heating, but are also responsible for tonnes of CO2 emissions.
The Conservative government in Lithuania is incapable of beginning building insulation.
I voted for this recommendation on the energy performance of buildings, since it promotes the objective of moving towards nearly zero energy buildings.
This will guarantee that in time, EU buildings become sustainable from an energy point of view.
I express my support for the recommendation to improve the energy efficiency of buildings.
Energy efficiency means not only saving energy, but also reducing CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions.
Research in the construction sector is moving towards a greener approach to building.
In Mediterranean countries, these new technologies are not spreading at the same pace.
The European Union therefore needs to implement information campaigns, and to take action by making use of Community funds, incentives and information campaigns, and by applying and researching new production technologies.
Achieving the 20-20-20 objective by 2020, in other words a 20% reduction in energy consumption, an increase in the ratio of energy from renewable sources to total energy consumption to 20% and a 20% increase in energy efficiency requires coordinated and targeted action, both by the EU and by the Member States.
More importantly, improving the energy efficiency of buildings is the most effective way of reducing energy consumption and emissions within non-ETS sectors by 20%.
The new Energy Performance of Buildings Directive establishes a set of minimum indicators/requirements for the energy performance of new buildings so that they can achieve by 2020 an energy consumption close to zero, with a large part of the energy coming from renewable sources.
This also involves applying these requirements to existing buildings.
Member States must adopt suitable measures in order to implement this directive quickly.
I voted for this report as the new legislation will help consumers cut the value of their energy bills, thereby enabling the EU to fulfil its objective of achieving a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020.
Public buildings must set an example by complying with this legislation before 31 December 2013.
The EU budget will fund part of the costs of the reforms.
Moreover, existing buildings will have to comply with very high energy efficiency standards calculated by the Member States based on a common framework established in the directive.
The indicator for measuring the energy efficiency of buildings must be included in advertisements for sale or rental that appear in the media.
The directive will be revised before 2017.
However, we utterly deplore the fact that the legislation does not take into account the renovation requirements of existing buildings, which account for 40% of the energy consumption and 36% of the greenhouse gas emissions in Europe.
The sector is responsible for 40% of energy consumption and 35% of total greenhouse gas emissions.
This agreement deserves our full support.
By 31 December 2020 at the latest, all new buildings must be nearly zero energy.
All public sector buildings must achieve this two years earlier.
Minimum energy performance requirements will even apply from now on when older buildings are renovated.
Nearly zero energy buildings are buildings with very high energy performance.
The Member States must draw up a list of measures for achieving the objectives of this directive by 30 June 2011 at the latest.
This directive represents an important contribution to the fight against climate change.
The Stockholm Programme provides for the creation of a reliable and sustainable common asylum policy in the European Union.
However, in order to implement and ensure asylum policy objectives, it is necessary to encourage Member States to participate voluntarily in the Joint EU refugee resettlement programme.
Therefore, the European Parliament is aiming to provide as many Member States as possible with the opportunity to participate in EU refugee resettlement programmes.
The European Parliament supports the Commission's proposal and is of the opinion that resettlement of refugees should play a central role in the external asylum policies of the EU.
It should be further developed and expanded into an effective protection instrument by the EU.
This will make it possible to protect human rights more effectively and, at the same time, to limit illegal immigration.
The EU must make its voice heard as far as migration and integration are concerned.
Such action requires not only the agreement of bordering countries but also of the countries from which future illegal immigrants will depart.
This process can be an ideal solution for those persons whose safety cannot be adequately guaranteed by nations of first asylum.
I am in agreement with the conclusions that have been made by the rapporteur and have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
Resettlement is, without doubt, one of the durable solutions for refugees whose protection cannot be assured in countries of first asylum.
It is important for adequate funds to be available, although just assigning part of the budget cannot be considered a true refugee resettlement programme.
We have no doubt of the importance of this amendment to the Refugee Fund, making it possible to plug a gap that exists in several Member States and improving their resettlement capacity.
The EU's development and expansion of this resettlement instrument must continue in order to establish the most effective protection possible.
The Commission will, therefore, be able to set the EU's joint priorities regarding resettlement of people every year.
These priorities may relate to specific geographic regions, nationalities or categories of refugees to resettle, although I agree that flexibility must be guaranteed in order to respond to emergency situations.
The pressure of migration flows is intensifying and there are a number of migration target countries whose concern about this phenomenon needs to be understood.
This is why it is important for the resettlement programme to be in operation as it would facilitate a fair distribution of the responsibility for complying with international obligations on refugee protection, as well as ease the load on countries burdened by the large number of refugees they are accommodating.
One positive step would be to get the European Asylum Support Office up and running during this year, which can provide Member States with support in applying resettlement initiatives.
I believe that sustainability must be the main feature of such a programme, which is guaranteed a longer-term budgetary outlook as a result of this decision.
The Stockholm Programme states that the EU must act in partnership and cooperate with third countries hosting large refugee populations.
The Commission defines annually the common EU priorities of persons to be resettled and this definition must be sufficiently flexible to respond to emergency cases.
The number of Member States participating in EU resettlement programmes has been increasing and must be extended to the greatest possible number of Member States.
Given its rather poor performance, Europe must contribute more to the effort to resettle refugees whose existence is threatened in the countries that have received them.
It was in order to encourage the Member States to join this movement of collective solidarity that I voted in favour of this report, which aims to encourage the reception and resettlement of refugees in Europe.
Only 10 EU Member States, including Portugal, accept refugees for resettlement.
The resettlement of refugees is a procedure whereby, based on a request from the United Nations High Commission for Refugees according to a person's need for international protection, third country nationals or stateless persons are transferred from a third country to a Member State.
The adoption of this recommendation seeks to increase the number of Member States that resettle refugees, to which end those that do so for the first time will have increased financial assistance for the first two years.
The measures proposed in the report will result in the EU - which already has to face the problem of mass immigration - becoming even more attractive to migrants.
While, in 2008, approximately 5 000 people were resettled throughout the EU, at present, there are 750 000 people around the world with this need.
It is for that reason that I voted against this report.
In many Member States, including my home country of Austria, the capacity for accepting refugees is already at bursting point and the population is quite rightly resisting new reception centres and similar facilities.
The report on the European Refugee Fund, calling, as it does, for the resettlement of refugees in the EU, is thus all the more incomprehensible.
The setting up of such a fund must serve two purposes: it must support refugees who arrive in our countries, often on our coastlines, seeking help, and also those States that receive the greatest numbers of these desperate people due to their geographical location.
The problem is, and must be, a European problem and we cannot leave certain States to manage it alone.
In view of the need to help refugees in Europe, I think the decision made by the European Parliament about this is extremely important.
The main objective of the fund is to support measures taken by Member States, which very often involve additional expenditures.
Such measures are intended to ensure decent living conditions for refugees, and also concern legal regulation of their stay in countries of the Union.
I think it is essential to increase financial assistance for countries which are engaged in helping refugees.
Refugees who come to Europe from the developing world, and who often have had to face enormous problems, such as violence, lack of the means to live and lack of access to medical care, should be given care organised in the best possible way by EU Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the committee, there were many amendment proposals put to a vote which were aimed at pointing out the importance of the church and faith groups in solving the problem of refugees.
Governments fail in the reception and care of refugees.
The Christian organisations are a thorn in the eye of our conscience.
For this, they deserve our thanks - even now, when they get very limited funding from the EU budget and cannot even be mentioned in the own-initiative report on this topic.
The report on the Schengen Information System and its modernisation contributes to this magnificent breakthrough in free intra-European movement.
Faced with growing movements of people between Member States in the Schengen Area, as well as the latter's enlargement, we must improve the handling of data to ensure that this freedom is exercised in total security.
The Coelho report contributes to the search for greater effectiveness in the circulation of information, as well as to the necessary respect for individual freedoms that the European Union guarantees.
The objective of this proposal is to ensure the migration from the Schengen Information System, whose current form is SIS 1+, to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II).
The European Parliament did all it could to ensure that this system would start to operate as soon as possible and that the SIS II implementation process would be completely transparent.
However, it is necessary to seek the approval of all of the institutions.
in writing. - Prior to the migration to the new SIS, it is necessary that the appropriate tests be carried out and that the necessary safeguards are in place.
While I believe that the above should be carried out in a professional and thorough manner, I also share the rapporteur's disappointment with regards to the extended delays that are impeding migration to the new system.
The data-migration phase is the final task under the development mandate for the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II).
The new mandate conferred on the Commission must be defined according to the date envisaged for the SIS II to become operational, in late 2011.
The delays that this process has suffered are regrettable, but I share his caution on the success of the migration process and his concern over Parliament's right to be informed of developments.
That is why I voted for this report: to point out the need to respect the deadlines set and to end what could be viewed, following numerous fruitless outcomes and given the resources deployed to achieve the objective of said migration - so far without success - as mismanagement.
The ball is in the Commission's court, but as the budgetary authority, the European Parliament must use its powers and reserve itself the right to ask the European Court of Auditors to proceed with a detailed audit of the management of the project and of the financial impact that a failure would have on the EU budget.
I see slight progress in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs' amendments contained in this report.
However, this report is still unacceptable.
However, now more than ever, it is time to build the Europe of solidarity and cooperation that we need.
Until we have a functioning Schengen Information System, the Schengen Area must not be expanded.
The Schengen Information System has proved itself an excellent and valid instrument for management and control within the European Union.
The rapporteur's proposal very much agrees with this viewpoint: second generation migration can no longer be postponed or put off.
We need effective and efficient instruments for coordinating information on and controlling those who enter and travel within the Schengen system.
in writing. - Prior to the migration to the new SIS, it is necessary that the appropriate tests be carried out and that the necessary safeguards are in place.
While I believe that the above should be carried out in a professional and thorough manner, I also share the rapporteur's disappointment with regard to the extended delays that are impeding migration to the new system.
In addition, I feel that it is necessary for the Court of Auditors to be asked to take an in depth look into the management of this matter.
The increased number of Member States has seriously complicated the process of transition, and migration between the Schengen Information System to the second generation Schengen Information System.
I welcome the Commission's decision to set up the European Asylum Support Office, which will be able to offer support to the Member States in carrying out resettlement initiatives, while ensuring coordination of policies within the EU.
The EU is participating far less than the United States and Canada in the reception and resettlement of refugees from third countries.
I voted for the European Parliament's own-initiative report on the establishment of a joint EU resettlement programme.
The latter demands that an ambitious and sustainable resettlement programme be established within the EU and proposes financial support for Member States ready to participate in this.
It is essential that the European Union has a fair and realistic migration policy.
I therefore welcome this effective, sound and sustainable resettlement programme, providing a durable solution for refugees who cannot return to their country of origin.
It is positive that the number of Member States participating in these resettlement programmes has been increasing in recent years.
Nonetheless, only 10 Member States resettle refugees on a yearly basis, without any coordination among themselves or a joint EU resettlement programme.
A multilateral approach is desirable, involving all the relevant actors at local level and without forgetting the fundamental role played by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees.
An effective EU resettlement programme must provide lasting protection and solutions, as well as the creation of mechanisms for cooperating and coordinating between the Member States.
The draft regulation applying to the EU programme for managing and regulating resettlement will, as a matter of priority, resolve the settling and adaptation of refugees in their new environment.
The participation of local authorities in a resettlement programme should always be on a voluntary basis, as is the case with Member State participation.
Some countries are used to having increased numbers of foreigners in the local population, but for others of course, it is something new.
In order to avoid phobias and concerns about foreigners in some countries or regions, we should respect their interest or lack of interest in participating.
It would also be appropriate, for the sake of the conformity and complementarity of the EU resettlement programme with other asylum-related EU policies, to coordinate the proposed programme within an EASO framework.
The resettlement of refugees has been proving necessary in cases where the receiving third countries are unable to provide them with safety and a livelihood so that they can settle there.
That is why various entities that are active on the ground are feeling the need for this problem to be fought at European level, and the joint EU resettlement programme proposed by the Commission could be the appropriate means of tackling this.
Irrespective of which model wins out in the end, it is clearly urgent for the Member States to cooperate more with each other and with first-settlement countries in order to provide a lasting, sustainable and interconnected solution to this serious humanitarian problem.
How can we tolerate the fact that a European agency is telling Member States who they have to accept on their territory and under what status?
The creation of this programme constitutes an important step in that direction.
It therefore seems to me that a common programme would take us in the right direction.
Finally, an efficient EU resettlement programme should provide protection and lasting solutions, not only for long term refugee situations, but also for the need for swift and appropriate responses in emergency situations, or situations of sudden urgency.
Approval of the European resettlement programme for refugees from third countries in Member States of the EU is a step in the right direction and, of course, I voted in favour of the report for which I acted as rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
In fact, it is very important to build solidarity between the EU and third countries on refugee issues.
It is good that a joint EU resettlement programme has been established.
However, the Member States which receive refugees are often among the poorest, and their resources do not allow them to accept a large number of people.
The Member States should adopt a more ambitious programme which will ensure the quality and effectiveness of resettlement.
We need to support the creation of mechanisms of private financing and the adoption of more frequent public and legal initiatives to strengthen the European resettlement programme.
Particular attention should be given to the human resources needed in the current and future EU resettlement programme so that a procedure can be introduced which will enable good practices concerning adaptation and integration of refugees into the receiving society.
The objective is to establish a joint EU resettlement programme, so that thanks to the closer cooperation of governments of EU Member States, the number of people resettled can be increased and their situation in the EU improved.
Every effort should be made for more EU Member States to join the EU resettlement programme, which will initiate political and practical cooperation between Member States for the permanent protection of foreigners.
in writing. - I voted yes to these reports, as agreed also with the rapporteurs during our debates in the Committee on Civil Liberties.
The report, which I hope the vast majority of you will vote for, is an evaluation of the progress made in Europe on education and training policies in the period 2007-2009.
The result shows that there is still too much lacking in the training of our young people, both in terms of preparation for the new sectors of the economy and in terms of giving them the skills to develop in a context in which Europe and the world are increasingly open and increasingly interdependent.
The 2020 strategy reflects the importance of training and education for successfully tackling the social and economic challenges facing us in the next decade.
Therefore, in the context of an EU economic crisis, I want to stress the importance of preserving education and training budgets at national and Union level.
I supported this report, since I believe that we must improve the quality of education and training in the EU.
Unfortunately, the guidelines identified in the Lisbon Strategy will not be implemented until the end of 2010.
Despite progress in recent years, many European citizens are still not yet sufficiently skilled and one third of the population of Europe have very low-level educational qualifications.
I think that it is very important to begin to implement as soon as possible a policy aimed at raising the quality of education and training in the Member States.
The European Commission, Member States and employers should cooperate closely with education and training providers, to ensure a higher level of education and broader scope in order to meet the demands of professional sectors and the labour market.
I voted in favour of the report on implementing the 'Education and training 2010' work programme because the report includes some very important passages, which I hope can find specific application in the sphere of EU policies and then be implemented in full by the Member States.
From this point of view, for the future of both our education system and our economic system, which is made up almost entirely of SMEs, one hopes that the need to strengthen the connection between institutions, particularly vocational training institutions, and the world of enterprise, will be recognised.
I voted for this report, because this is an appropriate time to review the education and training objectives that were laid down in the Lisbon Strategy and to evaluate what was unsuccessful in this area.
I am pleased that one of the most important objectives in the new Europe 2020 strategy is to improve the level of education, reduce the number of people leaving school without qualifications and increase the number of people with higher education or equivalent.
I am delighted that the European Parliament has drawn significant attention to the fact that we must facilitate the integration of people with disabilities in the areas of education and training.
I also agree that we must allocate appropriate funding in order to ensure the integration of people with disabilities in the area of training.
Quality education and training are a must in terms of personal fulfilment of the individual, equality, fighting social exclusion and poverty, active citizenship and social cohesion.
It is essential to improve the quality of education and training for all students in order to attain better results and competences.
A clear commitment to professional training and lifelong learning will contribute much to the success of the 'New Skills for New Jobs' initiative, as will the development of transversal key skills such as digital competence, the ability to learn, social, civic, sporting and artistic competences, a sense of entrepreneurship and cultural awareness.
In order for the coming generations to be able to overcome the current gap between acquired skills and the needs of the market, I therefore believe it to be essential for preschool teaching to be of high quality as an instrument for early acquisition of essential skills.
I voted for the report on key competences for a changing world: implementation of the Education and Training 2010 work programme.
Given the generally positive content of the resolution, I will vote for it, but not without registering my profound disagreement with this interpretation of what the education system should be.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues can agree with much of this report.
For this reason, we voted against this report.
Commitment to education and training is essential and must involve improving the quality and effectiveness of education systems in Europe.
From the point of view of reviewing and assessing the work done up to now, this document becomes even more important if it is viewed from the perspective of preparing recovery strategies in order to achieve objectives initially proposed for the education sector, taking into account the new proposal for strategic framing of European cooperation in this sector: Education and Training 2020.
I voted in favour of the report on key competences for a changing world: implementation of the Education and Training 2010 work programme.
The text presents a global approach to upgrading and adapting education to modern requirements.
in writing. - I am very glad that today, we adopted the report led by my Catalan colleague from the S&amp;D Group, Maria Badia i Cutchet, on the very important issue of seeing education and training as key competences for a changing world.
I voted in favour of this report and would like to recall the importance of the basic skills that every European must acquire.
The Member States must integrate this priority to acquire basic skills (reading, writing, arithmetic) into their educational programmes before their pupils specialise.
The fact that some European countries have fallen behind in the teaching of foreign languages closes many doors to students, at a time when jobs are becoming increasingly international in scope.
Modern higher education should prepare students thoroughly with a view to entering the labour market.
As well as the right knowledge, competences such as entrepreneurship, intercultural understanding and creativity are becoming increasingly significant, and are playing a decisive role, on a par with formal training, in the achievement of professional success.
From this point of view, therefore, education is very important.
Taking into account the alarming statistics on the qualifications of Europeans - including, among others, the fact that 77 million people, or nearly one third of Europe's population between the ages of 25 and 64, either have no formal qualifications or very low qualifications - I consider this report to be extremely important for promoting science and raising vocational qualifications.
Europe's ambition is to be at the forefront in terms of research and development, innovation and new technological solutions which enable better management of energy resources.
Young people who have completed their university education find it difficult to enter the labour market because employers very often emphasise professional experience, which young people do not have at that stage of their lives.
Victims and compromises have already become part of daily life in many EU sectors, but it is important (particularly during the economic recession) that we do not neglect our commitments in such fundamental areas of policy as education.
Vocational education and training must be adapted to the needs of the labour market.
Lifelong learning from the cradle to the grave, as well as so-called 'second chance' programmes for adults with limited abilities, are not only important for stimulating the economy and the labour market, but also for social inclusion and active citizenship.
It is our duty to raise the level of the quality of training throughout Europe and make education appear more attractive.
The administration and management of commercial companies is an area which raises new concerns, especially during the current crisis, even though it has been subject to constant regulation.
In the case of corporations operating in strategic sectors, with either a large turnover or a significant market share, the financial problems which such corporations may encounter obviously go beyond the simple interest of shareholders, entering into the realm of 'stakeholders', in other words, creditors, employees, consumers, the relevant industry or state.
In addition, in order to encourage shareholder involvement in these corporations, which is passive in many cases when the proportion of capital held is too small, electronic voting should be regulated.
The governance of companies and their ethics is a critical issue, particularly in the current situation in which many shareholders are suffering losses on their investments because of violations of some of these principles.
I also consider it essential for shareholders to participate more in and take more responsibility for ensuring that good administrators are rewarded by the market and that less ethical managers are punished, so that their practices do not harm the rights of shareholders or have a negative impact on the entire market.
The recent financial crisis reinforced the need for us to look at deontological issues relating to managing companies in a more responsible way.
The EU must have a productive, social and environmental model with a long-term outlook that respects everyone's interests: companies, shareholders and workers.
I express my support for the report by Mr Lehne.
It is necessary, particularly when it comes to the financial sector, to put ethical issues at the centre; not only from a moral viewpoint, but also and, above all, from a social viewpoint.
I advocate these fundamental principles being made mandatory in every Member State and believe that a system of sanctions should be introduced for non-compliance.
I therefore believe that it is the duty of European institutions to establish a well-defined strategy that can make the most of existing training and mobility programmes (such as Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci), while also increasing the correlation between the supply of training, competences and the demands and needs of the labour market, in order to make the necessary transition between vocational and occupational training smoother and more secure.
I agree with this resolution because as we shape the policies of today, we have a strong responsibility towards young people and future generations.
It is very important to ensure a youth perspective in the post-2010 Lisbon and Europe 2020 strategies.
The report, which I voted in favour of, contains interesting reflections and suggestions for developing constructive policies that aim to give young people in today's society a sense of responsibility.
Young people face many challenges today if they are to make their way in the job market and in society.
I agree with the basic premise of the report: Parliament could be a useful instrument for implementing European youth strategies, in view of its democratic roots and its resulting ability to gather the requests of young people on the ground and within Member States, and to bring their demands to the attention of Europe.
Nowadays, jobs are still the main problem for millions of young people in Europe, especially during the current economic crisis, which has raised the youth unemployment rate to more than 20%.
I also agree fully with the report's emphasis on the social and human importance of young people taking part in voluntary work as a factor in helping them achieve personal and collective growth.
Therefore, above all, Member States need to safeguard the right of all children and young people to obtain state education and must provide everyone with the same opportunities for education, irrespective of their social background and financial situation.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as provided for in the new Europe 2020 strategy, it is necessary to take measures as soon as possible to reduce the number of students leaving school without qualifications.
Only by creating more flexible learning conditions for all young people, and safeguarding for all the right to learn and study, can we create opportunities for young people to get a foothold in the labour market.
I would also like to stress that it is necessary to prepare specific policy guidelines to implement employment policy and combat youth unemployment.
It is very important to stimulate youth entrepreneurship and provide young people with more flexible conditions to take advantage of micro-credits and micro-finance facilities.
The financial crisis has been having a serious impact on the lives of young people.
As the knowledge triangle is a key element for growth and job creation, I would stress the importance of creating more opportunities for youth in education and employment through increased interaction between education, research and innovation.
The Members of the European Parliament play a crucial role in promoting European youth policies in the Member States.
I would draw your attention to the problem of early school-leaving and the need to ensure that a higher percentage of young people complete compulsory education.
The European Parliament also plays an essential role in the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of youth strategy.
It is essential for Union programmes and funds to reflect Europe's ambitions for young people, and for the EU's policies, programmes and actions to be coordinated, with a view to an EU strategy for youth.
in writing. - I voted in favour because, though the EU strategy for youth is, by its nature, a wide-ranging and all-encompassing document, it is crucial to reassert that any new strategy must place education at the centre of its ambition and policy.
In the past, such an education policy would have correctly placed its emphasis on the need for all students in the EU to complete primary and second-level education.
Thankfully, we have now come to the point where we can afford to cast our attention towards more ambitious goals.
I support Mr Papanikolaou's report on 'An EU Strategy for Youth - Investing and Empowering'.
I agree with his call for the Member States to fully implement the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon in the area of youth policy, such as encouraging the participation of young people in democratic life, special attention for young sportsmen and sportswomen, and the legal enforcement of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I would stress the important role of the Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci programmes in the development of European education and training policies.
I urge the Commission to prioritise instruments that improve young people's qualifications and increase opportunities to work and, especially, to develop 'Erasmus first job'.
I welcomed receipt of the 'EU strategy for youth', in which information on the situation of young people of Europe was collected for the first time, as well as the three priorities for youth set by the Commission.
Creating more opportunities for youth in education and employment, improving access and full participation of all young people in society, and fostering social inclusion and solidarity between society and young people, are fundamental aims for an effective European youth policy that is capable of contributing to the development of a European mentality.
Nonetheless, the existence of different definitions of 'youth' in the various Member States, as well as the fact that youth policy is covered by the principle of subsidiarity, show the problems involved in effectively implementing the instruments of youth policy.
Strong desire and great commitment from the governments of the Member States are requirements for renewed European cooperation on youth in order to produce concrete results, as is the urgent strengthening of the open method of coordination.
The financial crisis is mortgaging, at least in the short term, the professional futures of millions of young people throughout the European Union, essentially because of the increased difficulty in entering the labour market.
These are concerns that must be present in any European strategy for youth.
Policies and strategies that enable Europeans to adapt better and quicker to the challenges of the twenty-first century - especially in a crisis situation - must also be sought.
Finally, I believe that in order to successfully achieve the proposed objectives, it is necessary to strengthen coordination between the various agents involved in pursuing the strategy for youth.
A commitment to young people is made through a good education system that gives absolute priority to the problems of early school-leaving and illiteracy, and that supports equal access for all young people to high quality education and training at all levels.
Given the high rates of unemployment to which Europe's young people are exposed, and as young people with poor qualifications are more likely to be unemployed, it is essential to ensure that they receive the best possible training, which guarantees them prompt access to, and a long-term stake in, the labour market.
The first job is very important.
The EU should better inform, develop and implement the instruments that it already has at its disposal.
Young people must be called on to participate more, not least in building the recycling society and in the objective of combating climate change, to which they have already been generously contributing, as a matter of fact.
We believe that this report takes the correct point of view in approaching young people's problems as something that cuts across several sectors of society.
By doing so, it identifies specific problems in several areas: education and training; employment; health; well-being and the environment; culture; and others.
We must invest; we must provide certainties, offer opportunities.
The world of work is changing, and we must create conditions whereby young people are the first to adapt to these changes, making the most of new technology, and following educational pathways that are appropriate for the new needs.
We must redouble our efforts; we must put young people at the centre of our European policies.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report on the new youth strategy, as I believe that the future of Europe is the young people today.
I urge the Member States to take the new youth strategy seriously and implement the proposed measures vigorously.
The youth strategy needs to feed into the personal and professional development of each young person in Europe by providing them with the means to learn at home and abroad, through formal, non-formal and informal learning.
The strategy should also serve to empower young people and increase their participation in society.
Making the national reports public is a crucial step in getting closer to our young citizens, but also in learning from each other through best practices and from possible challenges.
The global economic crisis is just one of the factors contributing to a change in the behaviour and living conditions of young people in Europe.
We have been witnessing for some time now in Europe a declining population, with the dramatic consequences this entails for our economies and social welfare systems.
At the same time, they are not being provided with adequate conditions for developing theirs skills and taking an active involvement in society.
Education, employment, social inclusion and health are the major concerns of the young generations, but these pose challenges for Member States.
I firmly believe that the amendments which we have proposed will make a significant contribution to the task of devising policies aimed at young people, by allowing them to make decisions independently and supporting their personal initiatives, equal access to education for disadvantaged young people and their inclusion in the labour market later on.
I believe that the partnership with the mass media aimed at raising the profile of the European programmes and projects for young people is a key factor in helping us achieve our objectives.
The EU strategy for youth has become increasingly important and must now be faced up to as one of the Union's political priorities, given that young people make up 20% of the total population.
In the situation of economic and financial crisis that we are currently experiencing, combined with the problem of ageing, young people are one of the most vulnerable groups.
If we really want to help the youth, we need to rein in the phenomenon of 'eternal trainees'.
Although we agree with the Communication from the Commission on an EU strategy for youth, I am concerned that, like many of the other strategies we have adopted, it may never be anything more than a set of fine declarations on paper.
Therefore, I call on the Commission, the other competent institutions and the Member States to take specific action as soon as possible so that this strategy becomes a reality.
What we ought to do, and what in fact we must do, is to create equal opportunities and equal access for all those who will begin their adult life in a few years, and also for those who are beginning their adult life today.
Unfortunately, there are many young and talented people who, for a variety of reasons, have been left behind.
Measures such as financial support for people who have completed university are essential for a smooth transition to the labour market.
Unfortunately, the unemployment rate among young people is high, and inequalities in the labour market persist.
Therefore, I fully agree with the rapporteur that the 'present report constitutes a further step of a continuous effort.
The creation of a new EU strategy for youth is of crucial importance.
The main aim of the new strategy for youth should be to use existing instruments more effectively and to promote knowledge.
It is possible to make progress by urging governments to cooperate more on this issue, regardless of the existing differences between national policies concerning young people.
This is an essential factor when it comes to offering future generations of European citizens a promising future.
The economic crisis is having profound effects on young people, and represents a threat to their future prosperity.
The ageing population will also have a strong impact on their future.
The current strategy on youth, essentially elaborated before the current crisis, is already facing a number of challenges: how to protect the young from the negative psychological impact of the current crisis; how to prepare them for tomorrow's world, not today's; how to ensure equal opportunity to education irrespective of income; how to separate 'mobility' from 'brain drain'; and how to balance 'virtual bonding' through the net with actual bonding and team spirit through collective action.
These are 'strategic' challenges which need 'strategic' attention from decision makers in all EU countries.
I voted for this report since its goal is to promote the active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity of all young people.
As regards youth policy, where subsidiarity is the rule, we must encourage the Member States to define common objectives and agendas, and to improve their cooperation and their exchange of good practice.
This is a matter of urgency because we know that, in Europe, 1 in 4 15-year-olds cannot read properly.
I therefore hope that the 2020 strategy, which is based on a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, will result in ambitious financial commitments to youth education and training, because in these times of systemic crisis, the medium-term survival of the EU is dependent on young people who are educated and mobilised by the European project.
Young people in the EU, and also in Poland, are making good use of EU programmes, such as Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci.
Therefore, it is very important to increase funding for these programmes and to recognise them as the basis for development of a multiannual EU strategy for youth.
In the future, these programmes should receive greater financial support.
As a socialist, I also stress the need to create equal opportunities for young people in their access to education.
It is essential to give financial assistance to those who cannot afford to complete tertiary education.
It is also important to help young people by making their access to the labour market easier. 3.
In view of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, I would like to draw attention to the obligations of Member States concerning implementation of the strategy, which includes encouraging young people to participate in democratic life, paying special attention to young sportsmen and sportswomen and the legal enforcement of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The report adopted by the European Parliament is a thorough analysis of the multi-dimensional question of youth - a question which sometimes appears to be under-discussed or pushed into the background.
The question of young people acquires even greater significance in the context of the current situation - the economic crisis and demographic factors in Europe.
Young people are more vulnerable to the adverse effects brought by the current economic situation.
Unemployment in this group is almost twice as high as the overall rate, and the financial situation facing young people often forces them to give up their education, which can, as a result, lead to poverty and exclusion.
In the context of an ageing population, instruments need to be found which will encourage young people to start a family.
As for questions of organisation and structures of cooperation in the area of young people, we should be more clear and specific.
The resolution adopted today concerning the Commission communication on 'An EU strategy for youth' points us in the right direction based on an integrated approach to the problems and needs of young people.
For example, the continued high level of unemployment in this social group shows a lack of structural solutions, such as errors in education systems, which educate young people in isolation from the needs of the labour market.
The 96 million young Europeans aged between 15 and 29 account for approximately 20% of the European Union's population.
Young people are our future and we should be involving them more in the decision-making process at European level.
These measures should have the following objectives: providing non-discriminatory access to education enabling young people to acquire the skills they need to find a job which will provide them with a decent living, offering accessible child care services to facilitate the work-life balance and giving support to facilitate young people's entry into the labour market and to provide social housing for young people.
The financial tsunami of the last few years has made most young people unemployed or underemployed.
On the basis of this report, the unemployment rate among young people in most EU Member States has almost doubled in comparison with the working population.
Education and employment are the principal areas from an investment point of view.
We need to facilitate a smoother transition between education and the labour market.
However, the impact of this essential investment will be limited unless we provide our young people with opportunities.
Therefore, we must revive their interest in the political process.
in writing. - I supported the report on a European youth strategy as I believe it will prove vital in getting young people into full-time employment over the coming years.
With 5.5 million Europeans under the age of 25 out of work, it is clear that an effective strategy to combat the problem is needed.
Mrs Lulling's report on equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity is a step in that direction.
As I share this vision, I voted for this report.
Bearing in mind the need to repeal Directive 86/613/EEC on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity, this proposed amendment represents a significant step forward, for the situation of the spouses of self-employed workers too.
As regards social protection, it is being proposed that where there is a social protection system in place for self-employed workers, the Member State takes the necessary measures for spouses to be able to benefit from social protection in accordance with national law.
Although the social protection of spouses is not mandatory, this proposal constitutes an important step, since in many Member States, spouses do not enjoy any form of social protection, mandatory or voluntary.
For the above reasons, I voted for this proposal.
The European Union has now come close to the Lisbon Strategy objective of achieving a 60% employment rate for women by 2010, but female employment in the Member States is very uneven.
Therefore, the Commission and the Member States must take effective measures to implement at the earliest opportunity the directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity.
The issue of maternity protection for self-employed women and assisting spouses or recognised partners is very important.
In addition, in the Commission's consultations on the new 2020 strategy, insufficient attention is given to the issue of gender equality.
I welcome the adoption of this directive that establishes a framework for the application in the Member States of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in a self-employed activity, or who contribute to carrying out such an activity.
Women's reduced participation in self-employed work constitutes an inequality, in as far as family responsibilities seem to have a negative impact on the entrepreneurship of women in comparison with men.
It is essential to adopt measures to resolve the gender disparities in entrepreneurship, in order to better reconcile private and professional life.
The directive of December 1986 has proven to be ineffective, as it has had quite unsatisfactory results according to its implementation reports.
This figure is undoubtedly a result of the innumerable obstacles that businesswomen encounter, not least in terms of juggling their family and professional lives.
However, if the 1986 directive did not achieve its goals, the current proposal also lacks ambition.
It is regrettable that the potential of this directive has been reduced in order to reach a political compromise in the Council.
Nevertheless, it may be considered a first step towards improving the current situation regarding the social protection given to self-employed workers and assisting spouses.
Minimum rules have been created under which, for the first time, the right to maternity benefit will be recognised at Union level, enabling work to be interrupted for at least 14 weeks.
The Swedish delegation within the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) yesterday (18 May 2010) voted against the recommendation for a second reading on the common position of the Council at the first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing Directive 86/613/EEC.
The Council is now submitting to us a new type of directive whose scope of application, however, is confined only to agriculture.
The situation of women in rural areas is extremely hard, especially in the new Member States, and we must be constantly and actively concerned by this.
In addition, I think that those provisions proposed by the Council, which could allow Member States to limit access to social protection schemes, need to be avoided.
As a staunch defender of human rights and the principle of equality, I would not undermine initiatives that aim to protect the rights of women in the labour market, as is the case with this report by my dear colleague, Mrs Lulling.
In the case of women, this is particularly pertinent in areas such as maternity support, the reconciliation of work and family life ... '.
I would stress our concern that differences in treatment between areas of activity be eliminated, in the face of well known developments at the levels of both organisation and of tools and mechanisms of work or production.
The European economy still has much to gain, and many developments to undergo, as a result of stronger and more inclusive participation by women.
As someone who is particularly sensitive to issues of gender equality and equality in general, including equality of social rights, I welcome the adoption of this report.
Indeed, it seems fundamental to me that the Member States should guarantee social protection for self-employed women and assisting spouses and that this protection should be equivalent to that of salaried women.
This measure is about boosting the entrepreneurial activity of women in Europe, which is still too hesitant; and, above all, it is about allowing these women to benefit from maternity leave in the same way as women doing another type of job.
Maternity leave must be guaranteed in all the Member States and for all women, regardless of their employment.
Since this measure is subject to the principle of subsidiarity, let us hope that the Member States will do what has to be done to ensure that these men and women can reconcile family and professional life as quickly and as easily as possible.
I would like to congratulate my fellow Member, Astrid Lulling, on the acceptance of her report, which represents an important step forward in resolving an extremely long-standing problem.
The situation of spouses and life partners of self-employed workers - who contribute to the activities and earnings of the business without having the status of an employee or business partner - could not be satisfactorily addressed in the 1986 Council directive.
Therefore, it was time to repeal the abovementioned legislation and draw up a new directive recognising the work of assisting spouses and putting them on a par in terms of social security protection with self-employed workers.
Although the Council did not accept several important recommendations made by the rapporteur and Parliament - leaving the provision of equal social protection for spouses and life partners up to Member States and allowing Member States to maintain restrictive provisions relating to certain schemes or levels of social security protection - nonetheless, the draft directive as a whole represents a significant step.
At last, the European Parliament is expressing an opinion on the application of this principle, so symbolic of social and economic progress!
It is hoped that the declaration of these rights will be followed by de facto respect for them, and that States will commit to introducing appropriate measures, especially for protecting self-employed women and assisting spouses during pregnancy and motherhood.
We must fight discrimination in the workplace in all its forms in order to support female emancipation as well as that of men.
The fact that they will now have a right to social protection will doubtless improve their material status, morale and drive to work.
No longer can we look on from the sidelines as self-employed women or men with families experience social injustice.
I wish to express my support for Mrs Lulling's report.
The proposal is necessary because of the great gender divide that still exists in the self-employed sector and threatens to become even more pronounced.
The proposal also considers that social protection should be provided for assisting spouses, who often make a substantial contribution to the business of self-employed workers, yet completely lack any such protection in many Member States.
The proposal, which aims to provide incentives for women to gain access to the job market and to help in the fight against undeclared employment, brings three main changes to current Community law: the definition of 'assisting spouse' is changed to include couples who are not married, where they are recognised by national law; self-employed women and assisting spouses are granted the right to benefit on demand from paid maternity leave lasting at least 14 weeks.
I voted for this report as I believed that adopting this directive is of paramount importance at European Union level, given the current economic and financial crisis we are going through.
Taking into consideration the fact that in most Member States, assisting spouses do not enjoy the social security benefits of their spouse, I believed that, in the case where a Member State makes it obligatory for the self-employed to join a social security scheme, this should also be mandatory for their assisting spouses and life partners.
in writing. - I am very glad of the fact that today, the European Parliament adopted its position in second reading on the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing Directive 86/613/EEC.
Women play an essential role in sustaining self-employed businesses as owners and assisting spouses or life partners.
I welcome Parliament's decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment between women and men for self-employed workers and their spouses as an important part of EU legislation.
in writing. - The ECR Group are strong proponents of working to bridge the gender gap for self-employed workers and their partners.
We support the report's aim, in that we would like to see all countries of the EU offering support and social protection to self-employed workers.
The ECR Group has always defended the principle of subsidiarity and strongly believes that Member States should take the lead role in creating and driving employment legislation and social policy.
For these reasons, the ECR Group has abstained on amendments 1-17.
The implementation of a future regulation on the naming of textile products, as well as information on labels about materials, will simplify the existing regulatory framework, making it transparent, clear and advantageous for consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Meanwhile, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the textile industry in general, will be able to protect the quality, design and innovation of their products, all of which will make them more competitive, not just in the European market, but also worldwide.
The 'made in' labelling would enable consumers not only to obtain additional information about product characteristics, but would also help strengthen the economy by developing new products for many sectors, promoting employment and supporting the fight against counterfeiting as far as products from third countries are concerned.
In parallel to this phenomenon, consumers want to be able to make purchases in full knowledge of the facts, sometimes favouring articles coming from countries with higher quality standards or social and environmental standards.
In this context, I decided to vote in favour of this report since it proposes to make country of origin labelling obligatory.
Therefore, I support the proposals adopted in the regulation that the European Commission report should cover such issues as an EU-wide uniform size labelling system for clothing and footwear, an indication of any potentially allergenic or hazardous substances and issues of ecological and social labelling.
In fact, in the absence of European legislation, there is a risk that products will appear that were manufactured in third countries, but which bear an inscription suggesting that they were manufactured in Europe.
The report also calls on the Commission to consider labelling which would give consumers access to information on the social and environmental manufacturing conditions of the products they buy.
These measures encourage innovation, an element which is - in my opinion - essential for European companies.
Indeed, only with innovative and high quality products can we overcome the fierce worldwide competition and emerge from this difficult time of crisis.
The text also protects consumers, whose interests - I stress - are central to our policies.
Finally, public health will be better protected: more detailed labelling will provide citizens with information on the origin of yarn and related products.
The issue of simplification is essential to promoting innovation in European industry and increasing the amount of information given to consumers.
It is also important to find alternative legislation that is less burdensome in terms of procedures and costs when transposing directives.
Parliament had already voted in favour of the proposal for a Council Regulation on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries back in 2005, but this was blocked by the Council.
This vote today, though, represents a strong political signal from the Assembly which represents European citizens and now forcefully calls upon the Council to adopt these regulations.
This may only be the first reading of the vote, but it is an important result, the outcome of much work in recent months with colleagues from other national delegations and other political groups.
This new regulation protects European consumers who wish to know the origin of textile products, and small and medium-sized enterprises who manufacture them within Member States.
The proposal brings together all the existing legislation on textile names and related labelling of textile products in a single regulation.
In this context, the standardisation of how textile products are labelled will benefit the competitiveness of Europe's textiles and clothing industry, and Portugal's in particular.
I also consider ecological labelling relating to the environmental performance of textile products important.
The introduction of these clearer and more transparent rules on labelling - which include information about non-textile components of animal origin - will also enhance consumers' ability to differentiate products and their quality.
Origin markings are essential to ensure transparency, safety and information for European citizens and, at the same time, to give our enterprises clear, common rules.
European industry plays a key role worldwide in developing new products, hi-tech and unwoven textiles for new applications, and products for cleaning, the car industry or the medical sector.
Finally, I will express my full support for the 'Made in' regulation, as I believe that this is essential for ensuring that consumers have adequate information about the composition and origin of the product they are buying.
in writing. - We, as greens, have abstained on the final vote of this report mainly because some of the key amendments proposed by the PPE, Liberals and EFD were adopted.
In summary, all these amendments go in the direction of widening 'made in' provisions.
I did not support the amendments in the Manders report on textile names and related labelling of textile products regarding 'made in' (47/49, 48, 12 and 67).
These amendments, which seek to impose origin marking for textile products imported from third countries (with the exception of Turkey and the EEA Member States) or to regulate precisely the conditions of voluntary origin marking of textile products manufactured in Europe by means of this regulation, would amount to endangering the adoption, within a reasonable timescale, of this important legislation.
The proposal for a regulation on origin marking put forward by the European Commission is still under discussion in the Council and is the subject of a report by the Committee on International Trade.
Union macro-financial assistance of EUR 500 million should not merely supplement programmes and resources from the IMF and the World Bank but should ensure the added value of EU involvement.
However, this assistance can only contribute to economic stabilisation in Ukraine if the main political forces ensure political stability in the country and establish a broad consensus on a rigorous implementation of the necessary structural reforms.
The Commission and other institutions involved are working together on a support package to the Ukrainian authorities designed to assist in developing a sustainable solution to Ukraine's medium-term gas transit and gas payment obligations.
Ukraine must have stability.
However, the European Commission must focus, from now on, a great deal of attention on the mechanisms for monitoring the trail of the loan granted to Kiev.
Ukraine's transition from a state-controlled economy to a market economy is a difficult and painful process, especially for its population.
I welcome the adoption of the legislative resolution providing macro-financial assistance to Ukraine, since it will allow the country to address the consequences of the global financial crisis by ensuring that its fiscal and external accounts are sustainable.
However, Ukraine needs to take appropriate measures to prevent and fight fraud, corruption and any other irregularities associated with this assistance, as well as providing for controls by the Commission and audits by the Court of Auditors.
As a potential candidate for joining the European Union, Ukraine is a privileged partner and must be the target of specific policies aimed at resolving its particular problems.
However, macro-financial assistance from the European Union to Ukraine will only contribute to the economic stabilisation of the country if the party-political landscape stabilises and the dominant political forces - which, in recent years, have been too caught up in their little internal wars over power and influence - establish a broad consensus on strictly implementing the structural reforms that the country's future requires.
Any mechanisms set out by the loan agreement must take these factors into account in order to enable the EU institutions to strictly monitor how well it is being implemented.
Ukraine, which is an immediate neighbour of the European Union, also features among the European countries which have been hit hard by the global economic crisis.
The crisis's detrimental impact on the Ukrainian economy is jeopardising not only internal stability, but also that of the region as a whole.
Resolving problems relating to the transit of natural gas across Ukrainian territory is strategically important.
The European Parliament should be given regular updates on the work of the Economic and Financial Committee.
The macro-financial assistance to Ukraine that is currently being proposed does not constitute a form of genuine, disinterested aid: quite the contrary.
Amongst other things, making this assistance conditional on the International Monetary Fund's requirements and the 'key principles and objectives of economic reform set out in the EU-Ukraine Association Agenda' means the following: the establishment of a comprehensive free-trade area between the EU and Ukraine; obedience to the objectives of the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy; closer cooperation through military channels in order to tackle matters of common interest; the possible participation of Ukraine in the EU's Atalanta naval operation; the establishment in Ukraine of a complete and fully operational market economy and the principles of macro-economic stability established by the EU; and the exchange of 'best practices' between the EU and Ukraine on reforming the welfare state, with the goal of making Ukraine's pensions system more sustainable.
As a result of everything that is explicitly stated and of everything that can be read between the lines, given the well known meaning of much of the EU language mentioned above, our vote could clearly only be against this proposal.
A loan of EUR 500 million will help Ukraine come out of the financial crisis.
As a neighbouring European country wishing to join the EU in the period ahead, Ukraine must be given a clear political signal which will encourage the authorities to implement the reform measures agreed with the EU.
The European Commission must, of course, take every measure to ensure that this exceptional financial assistance is used prudently and in the places where it is needed, in order to achieve the anticipated effects.
The terms for granting this assistance must be in line with the major objectives of the EU-Ukraine Association Agenda, and the process for using the funds must be subject to rigorous European control, with the European Parliament being briefed on a regular basis.
I am voting against the macro-financial assistance presented today to the European Parliament.
The macro-financial assistance programme is vital for improving the financial stability of European nations that have gone through the recent global crisis and have suffered from the effects of this crisis on their main trading partners.
Ukraine, a major and important partner of the EU amongst its eastern neighbours, has been hard hit by the global economic crisis.
For this reason, the provision of macro-financial aid of up to EUR 500 million in the form of a loan under the Commission proposal should be approved.
For me, however, it was also important that the aid granted from the EU budget not only conforms to the IMF programme but also to the most important principals and objectives of EU policy towards Ukraine.
The macro-financial assistance programme sets out to complement other financing from the Union.
The Union's financial help reflects the strategic importance of Ukraine as a potential candidate for EU membership.
MFA is granted at a time when the EU is also participating in the mobilisation of finances to reform Ukraine's energy sector.
in writing. - Nobody disputes that Ukraine is our 'strategic partner' whose situation is of great interest to us.
Helping Ukraine by making EUR 500 million available is therefore the right decision strategically, which we will support.
in writing. - In my capacity of EURONEST Vice-President, I voted in favour of the macro-financial assistance for Ukraine.
The macro-financial assistance for Ukraine is the first case to be decided under the new procedure.
I call upon all EU institutions to avoid further delay in deciding on the macro-financial assistance for the Republic of Moldova.
I therefore voted in favour of this report with the objective of introducing, extending or adapting the existing exemptions for the Azores, the Canary Islands, Réunion and Madeira in the sugar, milk and wine sectors.
It is important to stress that it is essential to have an integrated strategy for the outermost regions, without forgetting that each of them has its own specificity: it is important to find the best responses for each different region.
These exemptions will help the outermost regions.
I voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the European Union.
At a time of economic crisis, this is a decisive contribution to restructuring and maintaining, not only many dozens of jobs in the Azores, but also activity in the region's sugar industry.
The Commission's proposal envisages amendments to Regulation (EC) No 247/2006 laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the Union.
I congratulate the rapporteurs involved on the quality of their work.
We all know about the natural difficulties against which the outermost regions of the European Union struggle because of their geographic location and conditions, resulting in negative effects on their economic activity and productive capacity.
The proposed amendments are in line with this principle of solidarity, so I support them.
In fact, bringing an end to quotas will - as the adopted report admits, presenting it as a fait accompli - have extremely serious effects on the milk sector in the Azores, and for the region's entire dairy sector.
I voted in favour of the final text, which was pushed through urgently, since the application of these different exemptions for Réunion, the Azores, the Canaries and Madeira was key to ensuring the protection of jobs and the continuation of agricultural activities, in particular, milk production in Réunion.
However, I voted against the compromise proposed by the European Commission and the Council since the latter was making proposals that fell far short of the measures that we had proposed and which had been adopted by the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Agriculture.
It is regrettable that the quotas for sugar exports have not been kept at 3 000 tonnes for the Azores, that the exemption granted to Réunion for milk production has not been considered for the other French overseas departments, and that the safeguards concerning the sustainability of the results achieved by the Réunion milk producers have not been upheld by the Commission.
I would put all of these questions back on the table during the negotiations that will deal with the reform of the POSEI programme.
They are regions which are strongly dependent on climatic and geographical conditions, and whose access to products and services is based on cooperation with the mainland of the Union.
Assistance for these regions should be permanently guaranteed, just as the difficulties which the people of outermost areas have to overcome are permanent.
In order to guarantee these regions development of enterprise, stimulation of professional activity and the same level in the agriculture sector as in the whole of Europe, we need to introduce new legislative concessions - and continue with those which already exist - adapted to the needs of specific regions.
As these factors, taken together, severely restrict their development, there is provision in Article 349 of the Treaty of Lisbon for specific measures to benefit the outermost regions, which must be put into practice through appropriate initiatives that seek to respond to their specific needs, not least in the agricultural and fishing sectors.
We are voting in favour of these measures because of all these constraints and the international crisis that is devastating us.
The document which has been drafted by the rapporteur is very necessary, not only for us, but for the whole of the European Union.
It should also be remembered that there are areas which come under specific criteria but where the handicaps have now been removed due to the application of effective measures.
It is Member States which should be responsible for identification of less-favoured areas and for development of aid and development programmes.
The main changes concern the introduction, extension and adaptation of some derogations in the sugar, milk and wine sectors.
I believe that the proposed changes are positive for the outermost areas concerned.
The situation is very difficult, especially in some areas whose main economic sectors have been hit by the recent crises (dairy sector in the Azores, sugar beet, etc.).
However, to encourage such diversification, producers and transformers must be offered long-term prospects, and economic operators must be allowed to reach an appropriate level of industrial and commercial activity.
In view of the system outlined by the rapporteur and the amendments presented by my colleagues from the relevant Committee, I declare myself in favour of the report.
The framework for this report is Article 349 of the Treaty of Lisbon, in which there is provision for aid for the outermost regions to overcome permanent difficulties resulting from their geographic situation, topography and climate.
The provisions of this regulation must address the specific needs of these regions and the realities of the local market.
I was also concerned with safeguarding the incomes of Madeiran and Azorean producers of wine from hybrid varieties banned by the common organisation of the market in wine, enabling them to continue growing these varieties for consumption by their families, which means that they are not forced to grub them up.
The Trüpel report on the 2011 budget is a new stage in the European Parliament's budget adoption procedure.
I supported this report, which notably provides for the adoption of the second instalment of the EUR 1 500 per month increase in parliamentary assistance allowance, the financing of the 18 new MEPs as they take office, the improvement of support services provided for MEPs (policy departments, library services), and the increase in the number of visitors that each MEP can sponsor financially from 100 to 110 per year.
These various provisions are in keeping with the European Parliament's new responsibilities granted by the Treaty of Lisbon: henceforth, as colegislators with ministers of the Member States on almost all European competences, MEPs must be able to benefit from in-depth technical expertise on legislative matters, but also to inform citizens of their work, in particular, by receiving them in Parliament in Strasbourg or Brussels.
There is an enormous potential for greater efficiency in this House, and it would be easy to also increase performance with a smaller staff and less funding.
Taking into account the future enlargement of the European Union and the need to better inform the public about the work of this House, it is therefore necessary to allocate funds that will make it possible to work efficiently in 2011, so that the Union's entire legislative process does not become slower because Parliament is underfunded.
New competences were assigned when the Treaty of Lisbon came into force and the inclusion of 18 new Members makes it necessary to create conditions that enable them to exercise their mandate in a fitting, effective way.
This House must be provided with the resources necessary for it to operate properly; all the more so in this very demanding time that we are experiencing, in which EU institutions have a crucial role to play for Europeans and society in general.
in writing. - We, as Greens, have voted in favour of the report by our colleague, Helga Trüpel.
The estimates of the EP for the year 2011 are thus forwarded to the Commission for inclusion in the draft budget proposal for 2011.
As to the assistants' allowance second tranche increase for 2011, this means that the appropriations are currently entered in reserve pending a detailed financial statement of all related costs.
As to the first tranche of the secretarial allowance increase for 2010, this will be voted tomorrow as part of the Maňka report on the amending budget No 1/2010.
We have managed to get used to the fact that the European Parliament budget reflects complicated compromises between the European Parliament and other EU institutions, and also - indirectly - between the European Union and Member States.
Parliament remains too closed as an institution and, as far as is possible, we should increase financing for projects such as the House of European History and tours of Parliament.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has meant that the European Parliament's powers have increased, which naturally means new funds to meet the increased needs.
That being the case, this estimate of the budget for 2011 represents a 5.8% increase compared to the financial year 2010, in an attempt to ensure that Parliament is able to fully make use of and exercise its prerogatives.
The budget for 2011 will increase to EUR 1 710 574 354, of which 20.32% will be for Heading 5 (administration), allowing the political objectives to be reconciled with the respective finance.
UKIP will continue to defend the interests of British farmers against EU interference, as we feel the British agricultural sector is perfectly capable of running its own affairs, and already has high standards of both quality and safety.
Farmers should be able to focus on their primary responsibility: producing high quality products.
I voted in favour of the provisions of this report that relate to removing the current duplication and that relate to improving flexibility.
Farmers and other economic operators in the agricultural sector should be freed from red tape and requirements that are not necessary to reach political objectives and ensure proper management of taxpayers' money.
Simplifying the CAP is essential to making our agricultural economy more competitive, preserving and creating jobs and contributing to a sound development of our rural areas.
A high level of errors in applications has been recorded in some Member States and this makes it difficult for farmers to receive assistance on time.
Three years on from the CAP reform, we are now wondering how to adapt our agricultural policy to today's challenges.
The own-initiative report offers useful and widely shared suggestions for achieving the aim of an agricultural sector that combines quality and competitiveness.
Any measure capable of reducing the administrative procedures and burdens that weigh down agricultural producers - not to mention the local authorities concerned - and that does not compromise quality standards definitely deserves our support.
I am, in fact, convinced that simplifying the bureaucratic procedures to be adopted with the CAP reform from 2013 is not merely desirable, but necessary.
I therefore think it is right to simplify the rules for the electronic identification of animals, and to create a telephone helpline in every EU Member State to provide better access to information.
In addition, it is essential to rebuild trust between authorities and farmers.
UKIP will continue to defend the interests of British farmers against EU interference, as we feel the British agricultural sector is perfectly capable of running its own affairs, and already has high standards of both quality and safety.
Farmers have always been the most ardent and steadfast supporters of European Union integration.
It must also combat climate change and step up its research effort in order to make the best use of the opportunities that research can offer.
Simplification has to mean greater responsibility for all the actors involved.
In neighbouring regions of Member States with differing price levels, there are indications of massive economic action on the part of some agricultural entities in response to these price differences.
An agricultural entity which gets higher prices in its country of origin does business in another country (with lower direct prices) at lower production costs and records the sales on the other side of the border.
In this way, agricultural entities in countries with lower direct prices are discriminated against and economically disadvantaged on the local market, while agricultural entities from Member States with higher direct prices secure an economic advantage on the market as a result of EU policies.
Through this regulation, we will also contribute towards creating a new and fair market in agriculture.
I voted for this report because I consider the simplification of the common agricultural policy crucial to the competitiveness of EU agriculture, the preservation of jobs and the sustainable development of Europe's rural areas.
That is why a policy as fundamental and permanent as the common agricultural policy (CAP) must be understood by its main beneficiaries; in this case, European farmers.
The CAP must be simplified, as that will make our agricultural economy more competitive, so preserving and creating jobs and contributing to the sustainable development of our rural areas.
Simplification of the CAP must benefit farmers first and foremost and not only the national authorities and payment bodies in the Member States.
Farmers must have access to workable systems that allow them easily, and without needless bureaucracy, to submit applications for direct payments in the place in which they live.
It states that 'the distribution of the single farm payment should ensure fairness', but does not propose specific measures to achieve this goal.
In summary, the report lacks proposals and measures to change the CAP model in force, to begin with (but not only) as far as the distribution of aid is concerned.
Only subsidising 'real' farmers - producers of healthy food and high quality products - can guarantee security in this area for Europe and the world.
in writing. - I have voted against the Ashworth report on simplification of the CAP, because of Paragraph 12.
However, I do agree with the essence of the report.
There is a great need to relieve this administrative burden and reduce bureaucracy, especially in these times of crisis.
I also think that closer cooperation is needed between Member States and local authorities in terms of exchanging good practices.
Agriculture is one of the main resources in Europe, but it is also the sector that is most burdened by the grinding wheels of EU bureaucracy.
Against this backdrop, the European Parliament considers it indispensable to bear in mind that the goal of reducing administrative burdens by 25% set out in the 2003 programme is not enough and also not ambitious enough, given that we will probably achieve it before the deadline of 2012.
Parliament also believes it must suggest urgent strategies to the Commission and the Council for further reducing the burdens oppressing our farmers.
The proposals in this parliamentary resolution also aim to anticipate the redrafting of the CAP in the light of the EU 2020 strategy.
This step is crucial for ensuring growth in this sector, and for ensuring that its financial allocation is maintained, in view of the erosion of EU resources that is foreseeable for 2013.
The insistence on the traceability of foodstuffs is also important, although clear labelling on their environmental footprint is more likely to raise awareness among all citizens (producers and consumers) of the importance of relocation and of the environmental quality of produce.
I am therefore abstaining on this text as a sign of goodwill for the progress made in the intentions shown.
The simplification of standards and of checking mechanisms is essential for farmers, who must ensure the food supply for 500 million people at a reasonable price.
I would like to thank my fellow Members who voted for the amendments I tabled, thereby retaining the text already approved in committee.
I am referring mainly to Amendment 49 relating to the high level of errors in applications submitted for direct payments registered in some Member States, which also highlights that these errors are attributable mainly to the orthophotographic equipment used rather than to the farmers themselves.
The proposal to simplify the CAP is part of the wider process of reducing bureaucratic procedures, a process initiated some time ago by various EU Member States, to ensure more efficient and accessible services for citizens.
At the present time, with the debate for the post-2013 CAP already under way, this proposal for simplification represents a test bench that can be used to highlight opportunities and threats and form the basis of a proposal for European agriculture in the future.
The report on the simplification of the common agricultural policy (CAP) examines an issue that has been of serious concern to farmers, who are the main beneficiaries of the CAP, and also to the European public in general, who find the CAP hard to understand because of the complexity of its mechanisms.
It is essential that these measures have a direct impact on farmers and not just on each Member State's administration, as has very often been the case.
The elimination of the market management instruments cannot be put forward as one of the means of simplification.
I voted for the Ashworth report in favour of a simpler common agricultural policy which is also easier for farmers to understand.
The rules proposed by the European Commission are, on many occasions, extremely difficult to implement and there is a very high level of bureaucracy in Member States with regard to applying agriculture legislation.
Current legislative provisions in this area are far too rigid and counter-productive on many occasions.
It seems essential to me for the Commission to seek to eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles at the same time as proposing new regulations in this area.
We must now ensure that there is better coordination between agricultural policy and cohesion policy in the general review of the CAP.
It is obvious that by harmonising regulations, reducing bureaucratic burdens and restricting costs, we have the chance for a simpler, fairer and more understandable common agricultural policy.
The report presented by Mrs Rühle is an own-initiative report aimed at studying ways of improving public procurement procedures in Europe, in order to obtain a more stable and transparent legal framework.
I support the main points made by the own-initiative report: a call for better coordination of public procurement procedures within the various directorates of the European Commission, a statement that the objectives set by the 2004 review of the directives on public procurement (clarification of the rules and greater legal certainty) have not yet been fully achieved.
I also approve of the position taken by the report to the effect that small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, suffer from the complexity of these procedures, which may sometimes prevent them from participating in an invitation to tender through a lack of legal aid resources.
I therefore voted in favour of this report and will monitor closely the proper application, in our Member States and in France, in particular, of the public procurement directives that are already in force.
The aims of the 2004 revision of the public procurement directives have not yet been achieved, particularly with regard to the simplification of procurement rules and the creation of more legal certainty.
The European Court of Justice has examined a disproportionate number of infringement cases in the area of public procurement, indicating that many Member States have struggled to comply with the public procurement directives.
The Treaty of Lisbon has incorporated into European Union primary law the first acknowledgement of the right to regional and local self-government and consolidated the concept of subsidiarity.
A significant portion of the funds from Member States' budgets is spent on public procurement.
In order to increase the transparency of public procurements it is necessary to simplify public procurement procedures to relieve both local governments and companies from spending a large amount of time and money on purely bureaucratic matters.
Therefore, guidelines or other practical assistance given to public authorities and other public bodies in connection with sustainable procurement are essential.
I welcome this resolution, which seeks to simplify public procurement rules, while simultaneously contributing to creating greater legal certainty.
European initiatives on public procurement require coordination at European level to avoid inconsistencies and legal problems.
In 2004, the Commission carried out a revision of the public procurement directives, the purpose of which was to simplify the procedures, making public procurement more transparent, more efficient, more flexible and less bureaucratic.
It is therefore crucial that, during the process of revising the current public procurement directives, simpler and more effective rules be sought to regulate a sector that represents almost 16% of the European Union's GDP.
Total annual expenditure on the public procurement of goods and services in the European Union amounts to EUR 1 500 billion, or more than 16% of EU gross domestic product.
Against the background of the current economic crisis, public procurement directives must not make the process of awarding contracts slower or more costly.
While I support the report's objective of inviting the Commission to simplify public procurement procedures in order to save local government and enterprises from having to devote substantial amounts of time and money to strictly bureaucratic issues, I regret the wording of the second part of paragraph 9.
I feel that this interpretation of a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union indicating that local authorities can cooperate without ever resorting to the market deviates from the principle of neutrality.
This report throws a little light on the social and environmental standards that we must be able to integrate into invitations to tender; it also proposes recommendations to facilitate SME access to public procurement markets.
That is why I abstained from the final vote on this report.
Public procurement in the internal market of the European Union represents about 15% of GDP.
in writing. - (RO) Public procurement accounts for a significant proportion of the European Union's GDP.
Public contracts must therefore be transparent and completely open to public scrutiny so that they do not arouse suspicions of any kind.
I applaud the rapporteur for his work and am voting in favour of this.
As we can see with the difficulties in transposing the Services Directive in relation to social services, only a specific framework can provide legal certainty and quality of service.
Small and medium-sized enterprises and local and regional authorities expect clarity and legal certainty in the awarding of public procurement contracts such as social housing public procurement contracts.
However, neither did we want to vote against this report, which contains important elements, in particular, as regards social and environmental standards, which we must be able to integrate into tender procedures, recommendations to facilitate SME access, and a clear call for vigilance in public-private partnership contracts.
However, this report by Mrs Keller sometimes has a tendency to be either excessive or vague in its wording.
Our agriculture must evolve gradually and by responding to the difficulties faced by our farmers, who are key players not only in our rural areas but also in our cities.
I therefore voted against this report.
However, the European Union has made the commitment that all EU policies with an impact on developing countries will take into account the development objectives which have been assumed.
Contrary to initial predictions, the economic crisis is affecting poor countries in particular, many of which are involved in development projects run with European funds.
In these circumstances, the objectives adopted through the resolution voted on yesterday during the European Parliament plenary acquire huge importance and must be adopted by all EU institutions.
It is now clear that, despite the EU's commitment to development policy and the fact that it is the biggest development aid donor in the world, there is not always an effective link between its policies, undermining the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG).
We must look at Official Development Assistance from a long-term point of view of bringing together synergies between all the Member States and consistency between policies.
I support this European Parliament report in general, and consider it crucial that EU actors give their all to removing obstacles to development, to achieving the MDG, to the fight against poverty, and to ensuring that human, social, economic and environmental rights are actually put into practice in developing countries.
in writing. - (SV) The Swedish Conservative delegation yesterday (18 May 2010) voted against report on the EU Policy Coherence for Development and the 'Official Development Assistance plus' concept.
Introducing a Tobin tax would simply harm developing countries and lead to greater poverty.
To address the urgency of development, we call on the Commission to urgently define innovative additional sources of financing for development, such as a tax on international financial transactions intended to generate additional resources, in order to overcome the worst consequences of the crisis.
Finally, European development policy must be linked to flexible regulation of the movement of people, goods and capital with developing countries.
Clear ground rules are a precondition for the ability of a market economy to function properly and the trade in services is an important element in the development of countries' economies.
The European Union often comes up against paradoxes of its own creation and the incongruities that its policies bring about for the Member States and their citizens, as well as for third countries and their peoples.
As the biggest development aid donor in the world, the European Union and the Member States must strive for their development aid policy to be not just efficient but also consistent and coherent; this has not always happened.
The subject of this report is very relevant, since we know that the EU's policies and actions in several areas frequently contradict stated 'development aid' objectives.
The rapporteur ignores the fact that these instruments threaten the interests of developing countries in several areas, as has been becoming clear from the resistance of many of them to signing these agreements, which have only been overcome in some cases through unacceptable pressure and blackmail on the EU's part.
Moreover, the EU is a particularly open market in terms of imports of products from developing countries as a result, among other things, of the 'Everything but Arms' and other preferential agreements.
It should be noted that the commitment made by the Member States of the WHO at the ministerial summit in Hong Kong (2005) concerns the parallel elimination of export subsidies and the imposition of disciplines on all export measures with equivalent competitive effect.
I think it is particularly important for the European Union not only to apply the principle of the social market economy within the EU, but also to take it outside its borders.
in writing. - I voted enthusiastically in favour of Franziska Keller's report on Policy Coherence for Development, and I am very glad it was adopted by a majority vote.
in writing. - (SV) In the European Parliament vote, I voted against the report 'The EU Policy Coherence for Development and the 'Official Development Assistance plus' concept'.
Conducting a responsible, effective policy for development should be a key focus for the European Parliament.
It is clearly absurd and anything but responsible for the EU to take with one hand - for example, through agricultural subsidies that make developing countries less able to compete - and then provide aid to 'repair the damage' with the other.
The debate on EU Policy Coherence for Development is important and valuable.
I am particularly pleased about the adoption of the report on EU Policy Coherence for Development and the 'Official Development Assistance plus' concept, which is an excellent report aimed at ensuring greater respect for developing countries.
I especially welcome the adoption, by a slim majority, of paragraph 70, which asks the Commission systematically to include legally binding social and environmental standards in trade agreements negotiated by the European Union.
The European Union must set an example in this area.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament own-initiative report, which responds to the European Commission's analysis of penalties for serious infringements against the social rules in road transport.
Today, differences exist between the Member States that adversely affect the fair functioning of the internal market and road safety.
The European Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism is proposing in this regard some ways in which to provide solutions.
It calls for the creation of a coordinating body, to be responsible for improving cooperation between the Member States in the implementation of social rules, as well as the setting up of inspection bodies.
Finally, the report underlines the need to provide hauliers and drivers with sufficient information on the relevant social rules and the penalties for infringements by means of printed media, information technology and intelligent transport systems.
As I fully support these proposals, I voted in favour of this report.
The regulations and the directive on social rules in road transport currently in force afford the Member States a great deal of scope for interpretation and this results in a failure to achieve uniform transposition into national law in the Member States.
The Treaty of Lisbon provides for an opportunity to approximate the provisions of criminal laws and other legislation of the Member States.
I believe that the Commission must use this opportunity to develop and promote such harmonised approaches to checks and take regulatory action so as to remove obstacles to the European single market and improve road safety.
In order to ensure, as effectively as possible, the implementation of the social rules in road transport, the European Commission should come up with a uniform and binding interpretation of the Regulation on driving and resting hours, which the national inspection bodies should take into account.
Since 2006, a European regulation has obliged all road hauliers driving in Europe to respect the same maximum daily driving limit and to take rest periods in order to guarantee safety on European roads.
Unfortunately, the way these measures are being applied is far from optimal: the penalties for an infringement are completely different in each Member State.
This lack of harmonisation undermines the effectiveness of the regulation and introduces considerable legal uncertainty for road hauliers.
I voted for Mrs Ranner's report, which calls on the Commission to propose minimum and maximum sentences for infringements that would be harmonised in all the Member States.
The report also calls for the creation of a simple and accessible information brochure to inform lorry drivers of the risks they run should there be an infringement.
The European Union's concern about the absence of a uniform system for regulating road penalties at Member State level is justified.
Harmonisation of the regulations across all Member States, supported by their strict enforcement, without leaving it up to each Member State whether or not to adopt the European recommendations, would also increase safety on Europe's roads.
I tend to agree with the importance of an effective and balanced penal system, and that the Member States should work together to reduce the differences in how road infringements are handled.
The report prepared by the European Commission summarises the various types of penalty existing in Member States and demonstrates the differences between the systems adopted by each Member State in this area, concluding that the situation is unsatisfactory.
It therefore calls on the Member States to apply the social rules in road transport in a harmonised way.
The European Parliament's rapporteur is proposing to increase harmonisation efforts in this area, particularly at the level of 'interpretation of the application of social legislation' and penalties, by 'categorising' it and so seeking to 'achieve an internal market in transport and to increase legal certainty'.
Road transport safety has always been a concern of the EU.
Greater cooperation between Member States is necessary in order to create an easy communications network for all the sector's professionals whenever they are working in a Member State that is not their own.
Consequently, in the name of general safety, we need to ensure compliance with these regulations.
The report by Mrs Ranner, whom I congratulate on account of her work, sheds light not only on the differences between fines in different Member States, but also on differences surrounding the types of penalty in highlighting the unsatisfactory nature of this situation for drivers and transport enterprises.
This report by my colleague in the Committee on Transport and Tourism is an excellent initiative towards solving some of the existing problems regarding the road transport penalties applicable to serious infringements.
I would also stress the importance of developing initiatives to provide adequate information about social rules, and create adequate infrastructure and car parks to ensure respect for the rules.
