Finally, does the current crisis in the euro area and the lack of solidarity of Member States in tackling it present a threat to the success of this ambitious project?
Let us renew the spirit of Europe according to the ideas of Robert Schuman, so that the successes we have had so far in our common project do not fall by the wayside. (HU) Madam President, on Europe Day, I would like to speak about the Community idea.
Thank you for your attention. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 976 billion have been allocated by the European Union for the period 2007-2013.
But we have over 2 000 parents, brothers, mothers and sisters in Cyprus who are suffering every day as they wonder about the fate of their loved one.
In 1963-64, civil unrest, and the subsequent Turkish invasion and occupation of Cyprus in 1974, resulted in approximately 2 000 Turkish as well as Greek Cypriots going missing.
We owe it to Europe and its future. (EL) Madam President, today is the 66th anniversary of the major anti-fascist grassroots victory on 9 May 1945, when the fascist-imperialist axis between Germany, Japan and Italy and their allies was crushed.
It is a brazen insult to the millions of dead and injured, the victims of fascist and Nazi bestiality in Greece and Europe as a whole, for the European Union to try and wipe out and falsify history: to turn 9 May from a day of anti-fascist grassroots victory into a vulgar celebration as Europe Day, a day which celebrates the European monopolies.
At the moment, these despotic bureaucrats are imposing a ridiculous agreement on Romania whereby between 150 and 200 of the country's existing 400 hospitals will be closed down.
It is evident in a European region that the future of the Roma community lies not in short-sighted part-measures, but in prospective action by Europe which is founded on solidarity and dialogue.
The Roma integration strategy being prepared under the direction of the Hungarian Presidency may create the Europe of the future for the Roma communities as well.
The so-called reform proposed by the Boc government is a direct attack on the rights provided for in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
On behalf of Romania's citizens, I call on the European Commission to take a stance and block these inhumane measures which are jeopardising lives and basic rights. (SL) Madam President, the agreement reached last week by the Palestinians, that is, by senior representatives of Fatah and Hamas, in which the new interim Egyptian Government was actively involved, opens up new opportunities for the resumption or, rather, the commencement of a genuine Palestinian-Israeli dialogue on peace and coexistence on the basis of the mutual recognition principle.
In this country, only 7% of the population are Poles, but in certain areas of course, there are more.
As a member of the Basque Friendship Group 'Toward a peace process in the Basque Country', I was among those signing the declaration aimed at requesting the Spanish Government to reconsider its position and take all necessary measures to ensure that the elections held on 22 May respect basic democratic principles.
I very much welcome this decision and wish to express my hope that the elections held on 22 May in the Basque Country will be conducted in accordance with all international standards relating to democracy and electoral law. (PT) Mr President, I am Parliament's rapporteur for refugees and I should say that this mission has, in recent times, become a depressing one, if not at times macabre.
Last month, I informed the House about the deaths of more than 100 refugees off the coast of Lampedusa, and now, still reeling from the shock of learning of the disappearance of 600 refugees who were leaving Libya, we learn of more than 60 who died in full view of the ships of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and several European navies.
However, both the recent criminal attacks on the Community emissions trading system (EU ETS) and the information in the recent report by Transparency International on corruption in climate funding are causes for concern, not only because huge amounts of money are at risk, but also, more importantly, because a global fight which, unlike others, may not be open to repeat efforts, is at risk. (SK) Madam President, in 1990, József Antall declared himself Prime Minister of all Hungarians, including Hungarians living outside Hungary.
The current government in Slovakia is preparing an amendment to its Labour Code that will increase working time to 56 hours per week and overtime from the current 400 hours to 560 hours.
The European Parliament declared 2010 the year for combating poverty.
This programme has become vital for 13 million Europeans who have little job security.
Our institutions made 2010 the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
That is why I call on the Commission to take the political measures necessary to safeguard, preserve and strengthen that programme. (BG) Madam President, the Romanian border control forces have been detaining illegally for more than 10 days a Bulgarian fishing vessel and its captain, Hristo Spasov, apprehended 20 miles east of Romania's Black Sea coast, an area outside the country's territorial waters.
The Bulgarian authorities have forwarded all the necessary documents to their Romanian counterparts, certifying that the vessel is entered in the European Union register and has all the permits for fishing in the Black Sea's waters.
I therefore hope that the Venice Commission's findings will be directed towards the adoption by this Parliament of a resolution demonstrating that the Fidesz government is bad for Hungary. (RO) Madam President, every year, 9 May is celebrated as Europe Day and I take this opportunity to extend my best wishes to all European citizens.
In his declaration of 9 May 1950, Robert Schuman, the French foreign minister, indicated that Europe would not be built all at once or based on a single plan, but through specific achievements which would primarily generate genuine solidarity.
We would like to hear the speech of Commissioner Viviane Reding on these issues. (ES) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask for your attention to remind you that this year has been proclaimed the International Year of Chemistry, in commemoration of Marie Curie being awarded the Nobel Prize for Chemistry exactly 100 years ago.
