Patients' rights in cross-border healthcare (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the Council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare (11038/2/2010 - C7-0266/2010 - (Rapporteur: Françoise Grossetête).
All the answers to these questions now appear in the draft directive.
This may be the case for patients who live in border regions, where healthcare provided abroad is sometimes closer than that provided in their own country.
It may also be due to the fact that there are more resources and expertise available in another Member State, such as for certain highly specialised treatments.
Finally, for some Europeans, it may quite simply be more practical to receive healthcare outside their country of affiliation because they have family living in another Member State.
Patients will now generally be able to receive all the healthcare to which they are entitled at home in another Member State, and be reimbursed up to the level of costs assumed by their own system.
For hospital treatment involving an overnight stay or using specialised or cost-intensive technology, the Member State may establish a prior authorisation system.
Parliament has made progress on other points, too: each Member State will have to establish national contact points to provide patients with the best possible information and guidance based on their needs.
Each national contact point will act as a one-stop shop and must cooperate with the other national contact points.
This is why we can say to ourselves today that we have achieved our goal, and once again I would like to thank all my fellow Members.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, Ms Grossetête, distinguished Members, let me continue in my mother tongue, Hungarian. (HU) I am very pleased to have the opportunity to participate in the debate about the directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
Furthermore, on behalf of the Council, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its excellent cooperation and its willingness to reach a compromise, which resulted in this agreement.
I am convinced that the agreement will provide many benefits to patients in the European Union, and that it constitutes another important step in guaranteeing European patients' rights.
I acknowledge that the debates within the European Parliament were not easy either, and that the report you will be voting on tomorrow reflects a compromise between the political groups in Parliament as well.
I would therefore also like to express my appreciation to everyone whose work contributed to the establishment of a single position here in Parliament and, in particular, to Mrs Françoise Grossetête, with whom I have been sitting almost side by side in this House for a year, and to all co-rapporteurs, without whose cooperation this legislative process could not have succeeded.
Furthermore, we agreed on issues relating to the treatment of patients diagnosed with rare diseases, as well as on further cooperation between Member States in connection with e-health systems.
The Council believes that we have achieved the most important goal, that is, the consolidation of the case-law of the European Court of Justice relating to the free movement of goods and services in the area of healthcare.
Last but not least, the directive will clarify the relationship with Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems, thereby guaranteeing increased legal security for patients.
During the implementation of the directive, Member States will be guided by principles which have already been acknowledged by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on several occasions.
I would also like to add that this time, we will also be able to decide on measures that are efficient and, at the same time, improve competitiveness.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me congratulate Parliament on the major achievement of reaching an agreement on this directive.
I am particularly grateful to the rapporteur, Ms Grossetête, and the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work and their commitment to patients' rights.
It will also generate a new phase of cooperation between 27 national health systems.
Allow me now to share with you some views on the directive.
Firstly, the directive makes clear that all Member States have a duty to invest at home, to provide their citizens with the healthcare they need without undue delay.
As regards hospital care, the directive provides that, when the delay - I mean the waiting time for receiving treatment - is too long, the patient will be able to choose a provider in another Member State and will be reimbursed.
The main progress achieved by this directive, as compared with existing legislation, is that patients will be able to choose their healthcare provider and will have access to information on the quality and safety of the care they will receive.
Secondly, the directive will give patients access to information on their rights and on cross-border healthcare - information validated by national contact points and not left to private initiatives on the Internet or other media.
While the cooperation networks set up by the directive are voluntary, I am convinced that all Member States will see that they have much to gain by working together.
This is a matter of solidarity in Europe.
The directive also provides for European reference centres, which will facilitate the pooling of expertise and its dissemination across Europe.
I believe such centres can lead to better healthcare for our citizens.
Mr President, Minister, honourable Members, the final compromise which is on the table today reflects the essential spirit and fundamental purpose of this directive: to enhance patients' rights to cross-border healthcare, while taking into account the sustainability of health systems.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Mr Dalli, ladies and gentlemen, this really is an important day for patients all over Europe.
It was totally unacceptable that the Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ) had granted patients the right to travel to another Member State, but that many Member States had not put this judgment into practice.
The result has been an improvement in the situation in those countries where the ECJ judgment has, in principle, been put into effect, in the form of a move towards a Europe for patients and a healthy Europe, just as Mr Dalli has said.
It also shows that they would rather invest in other things than in these areas which provide services for their citizens and that is a disgrace.
I am grateful to the rapporteur, Mrs Grossetête, and to my fellow Members for their cooperation.
People with these illnesses have always been sidelined and have found it difficult to obtain any treatment at all.
If reference networks are set up in future, it will finally be possible for the Member States to share best practices, information about gold and platinum standards and scientific progress.
I would have preferred not to have had the fuss and squabbling about prior authorisation, which simply shows that the Member States have not recognised the things that are really important.
I would also like to thank particularly the Belgian Presidency, which is not present today, but which has done everything possible to ensure that this process was successful.
Although the Belgian Presidency did everything in its power, it could not always achieve a great deal, because of the sometimes stubborn, antediluvian attitudes of other Member States.
However, something has been done and I believe that we will be able to vote in favour of this legislation tomorrow with a clear conscience. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, looking back four years to the launching of the ALDE campaign 'Europe for patients', I have good reasons to welcome the agreement reached with the Council in December.
I would firstly like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Grossetête, as well as the other shadows for their good cooperation and the great work accomplished, and also the father of this initiative, our colleague, Mr John Bowis.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, many in this House will remember that at first reading, this was an extremely hot topic, and I think we are hearing only some of the differences between us.
On the issue of rare diseases, we have also achieved a compromise that is better than what we were pursuing first time round.
As people have said, for many patients, this will work well, but we also need to take care of our patients in our own Member States.
Today, it is precisely two years six months and 16 days since the European Commission submitted the long-awaited directive on patient rights in cross-border healthcare, but the history of this directive goes back long before, when this issue originally formed part of the Services Directive.
We must not forget that the agreed directive addresses only the rights of patients, and the issue of the free movement of health services in the EU remains unresolved.
The health systems in the Member States may be based on the same general principles, but the organisation of healthcare provision varies greatly between individual Member States.
Despite the many concessions and adversities, the submitted proposal represents a small but important advance.
Healthcare is a basic need and one to which everyone should have equal access.
Eventually, they will have so many health tourists coming in that their own local patients will be squeezed out.
During discussions in committee and in trialogue, we reached an agreement on a text that is balanced on the whole and which takes into account the needs of healthcare quality and safety, the general principles of reimbursement, prior authorisation, cross-border cooperation on the treatment of rare diseases and electronic health services.
The costs that are incurred by a health service to treat a national of another Member State should rightly be borne by the patient's State of origin.
We also wanted to oblige Member States to guarantee basic levels of healthcare, but this was not possible.
The common objective of both measures is to stress the need for better coordination between Member States in the exclusive interest of citizens. (HU) Mr President, Mrs Győri, ladies and gentlemen, personally, I support the report on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
Numerous examples have demonstrated that a large number of patients seek appropriate healthcare services in other Member States.
Furthermore, I believe that it is important to coordinate the recommendations of the professional college to ensure that the individual Member States apply the same treatments to the same disease categories.
Health must not be a privilege, and the same diseases cannot be treated differently in Hungary and in Sweden just because the former is in Eastern Europe and people live under less favourable financial conditions, while the latter belongs to Western Europe and people there are better off. (SV) Mr President, I believe that tomorrow's vote will be one of the most important votes that I have been involved in during my six years in the European Parliament.
This also concerns the fundamental idea of European cooperation - free movement.
I do not regard this as a decision that we are taking as a result of what the Swedish or European Left has done, but rather in spite of it.
Cross-border treatment now represents 1% of total health expenditure in Europe.
I would like to pay tribute to the work of the rapporteurs - Mrs Grossetête and our socialist rapporteur, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, whom I would particularly like to congratulate - which has enabled significant progress to be made, such as, for example, the reimbursement of care, the establishment of national contact points and European reference networks, the treatment of rare diseases and enhanced cooperation between the Member States.
This legislation improves patient information, quality of care, costs and reimbursement procedures.
I am also satisfied with the prior authorisation system for more expensive treatment, including hospital treatment, specialised treatment or treatment presenting a particular risk for patients.
The aim is obviously not to prevent patients from receiving treatment abroad, but to prevent medical tourism and also prevent risks to social security systems.
However, I have mixed feelings regarding the conditions for implementing this procedure, which could present risks of unequal treatment among patients from the Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, those are the points that I wished to make. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bowis, this directive creates clear, transparent rights.
If I want to travel abroad, the situation will be clear and the decisions will no longer be arbitrary, as was the case in some countries.
I am proud of the fact that with the two rapporteurs, including Mrs Grossetête, we have succeeded in maintaining a balance.
We have shown our opposition to health tourism and our support for ensuring that the national systems are not undercut.
My initial concerns are at the potential impact on the Welsh healthcare system, regarding reimbursement and prior authorisation, have been resolved as a degree of flexibility has been built into these proposals.
This should lead to a rise in standards throughout the EU, through patient choice. (PT) Mr President, the intention behind this directive has been clear from the start: to include health services in the objective of liberalising services and so satisfy the interests of economic and financial groups by expanding their areas of business in the healthcare field in all the countries of the European Union, and by treating healthcare as if it were just another commodity and its users as if they were mere consumers.
In practice, the same European Union that is imposing severe restraints on national budgets when it is a case of financing public services, such as health, is not concerned about overloading these budgets when it is a case of channelling public money into any private economic and financial group involved in the healthcare business, or into encouraging medical tourism.
It is therefore necessary for these intentions to be blocked as well, in a similar way to what happened in 2007 with the exclusion of healthcare services from the infamous Bolkestein Directive. (SK) Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing a measure of disappointment over the position of the Council in relation to the directive on patients' rights in cross-Border healthcare, since the Council has failed to adopt in the first reading many of the good proposals for amendment from the European Parliament.
The European Parliament, namely, established in the first reading a good foundation for the correct application of the rules of cross-border healthcare provision in the Member States in such a way that patients could, where justified, and in compliance with the stipulated rules and without burdening the courts, receive the outpatient or hospital care they need in another Member State.
It is therefore good that in drawing up the report in committee for second reading, it was possible to continue the original philosophy expressing the position of Parliament from the first reading and, starting from the currently opaque situation in cross-border healthcare provision, progress to a dignified solution to the problem.
The compromise text, backed by the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice and submitted for today's debate, provides our citizens with new possibilities and new quality in healthcare, and we must therefore - in my opinion - strive for this directive to be applied in everyday life as quickly as possible. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a legal process that has lasted for years, tomorrow, we will finally vote on the report that will put European citizens who are forced to go abroad each year to obtain appropriate medical care on a sound legal footing.
This will allow all patients, and not only the best informed or richest, to benefit from rights that have already been recognised over the years in judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
More could perhaps have been done on certain points to protect patients, for example, with regard to the prior notification system, which will allow Member States to advance medical expenses, but only on a voluntary basis.
Lastly, I would like to stress my enthusiasm in taking part in a debate that has been conducted absolutely across the board with only one common denominator, namely, the priority of ending the ordeal of thousands of patients across Europe, and this moment seems at last to have arrived. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Mr Dalli, as I understand it, the job of politics is to help safeguard and improve the quality of life of our citizens.
However, even given the best possible national healthcare systems, there will still be cases where patients will need or want help, support and medical treatment from another country.
This directive lays down the legal foundations and guarantees that patients can access these services without additional red tape, without legal uncertainty, and without having to make large advance payments.
I am also calling on you to persevere in your attempts to extend preventive measures and healthcare provision.
I think it is important to highlight the significant role played by the Belgian Presidency, which did what was necessary to reach this difficult compromise with Parliament, and particularly with certain Member States, whose position was - how can I describe it? - resistant in certain cases.
This directive on cross-border healthcare is essential, even if it does concern only 1% of national health budgets, because, aside from the figures, what we should be focusing on is the strength of the symbol, which is the legitimate right for every European citizen to be treated abroad and be reimbursed for the treatment received with all the correct information.
It was also important to clearly establish the safeguards in order to prevent any form of medical tourism, but also to introduce sufficient flexibility into the text in order to encourage diagnosis and treatment on both sides of a border.
I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is an essential first step, but that we will need to go further and battle further in order to move forward with the Europe of health that we all hold so dear. (PL) Mr President, there are no ideal laws.
The directive, therefore, is a huge opportunity and a source of hope for all patients in the countries to which I refer.
The proposed directive will enable health insurance companies to send patients abroad for cheaper treatment.
If a specific treatment is available more cheaply a few hundred kilometres away, and if patients are sent there by their insurance companies, the result will be that this particular treatment will no longer be available locally.
This is a public responsibility as part of the provision of services of general interest, which must be available for everyone in their local area. (DA) Mr President, no one who is sick wants to go to a foreign country if the treatment is just as good in their home country.
Patients can more easily seek treatment in another country if, for example, the expertise and treatment offered is not found in their home country.
This is important when it comes to very rare diseases that require very specialised knowledge.
However, this should not mean that the Member States thin down their health systems - something that the text also states.
Thank you Mr President, and I would also like to thank Commissioner Dalli and the rapporteur.
Thank you for your excellent work. (PL) Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Grossetête, who has done a very difficult job.
It was not an easy job, because of the different positions of the European Union's Member States and the different healthcare systems in different countries.
We are all aware that the measures contained in the directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare - and the rapporteur has spoken about these measures in great detail - are what is wanted by the residents of the European Union, particularly in those countries where access to specialists and modern procedures is limited.
The essential features of the directive are accessibility, ease and certainty with regard to healthcare, and also the patient's right to use the healthcare services of another Member State and to have specified costs reimbursed.
I would like to point out that the provisions of the directive will mean not only an improvement in the condition of patients' health, but I believe that it will be the basis for improving the systems of healthcare in some countries of the European Union.
I do not, however, believe that we should be satisfied with this alone, but rather that it should be the beginning of a much greater step forward, so that, as Mrs Roth-Behrendt was saying, this directive becomes just a formality because the level of equality achieved in all Member States means it is unnecessary for each citizen to be returned to their country.
It is quality that will create union, otherwise we will be taking very small steps. (CS) Mr President, those of us who have been longer in the European Parliament will surely remember how this standard came into being.
When the Commission finally submitted the directive, the free movement of health services was then gradually removed, leaving us the part which describes the right of patients to move freely around the European Union when looking for health services and healthcare provision.
The directive has provoked numerous concerns among individual Member States regarding over-exploitation and the wrecking of national budgets.
I would like to extend my best wishes to the rapporteurs and to thank them for their work. (DE) Mr President, I very much welcome the fact that this directive is finally coming into force.
I am particularly pleased that the right of Member States to put restrictions on treatment in another country has been more clearly defined.
I believe that we are helping the 60 000 people who are on waiting lists for organ transplants.
We are also helping the millions of people suffering from one of the 30 000 rare diseases.
I therefore fear that, in countries with healthcare systems that are universal and mainly free, the new legislation could act as an incentive to reducing investment in national systems and could contribute to creating a healthcare market for the rich.
He said it was 'clear that all Member States have a duty to invest at home, to provide their citizens with the healthcare they need'.
They are going to have to pay for them anyway if our citizens take up the rights that this directive will give them.
In conclusion, people already have a right to travel for cross-border healthcare under Regulation No 883/2004 but they do not know about it.
Member States are responsible for providing care to their own citizens.
It is also a very important consideration that the directive will enable us to make better use of natural conditions.
It is very important to continue along this road, so that the healthy, the sick, the European citizen can feel that the European Union is about them and for them. (MT) Mr President, many of us pay little attention to our health whilst we are still in good health and do not require medical care.
European Union citizens can benefit from medical treatment from around the different Member States when their condition is not curable in their own country.
I would like to add that we still face a range of issues, for example, resolving on-line healthcare services, the mobility of health workers and others. (RO) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Győri on the mandate she currently has, and I wish her and the Hungarian Presidency every success.
I would like to congratulate everyone who contributed to this draft report which we are debating today.
I would like to thank them very much for all their efforts.
This is a major step forward, particularly with regard to rare diseases.
In addition, specialists will have the opportunity to develop their skills further, because of the increased demand resulting from more people having access to services.
For the people in my region, which is close to the border with Luxembourg, Belgium and France, cross-border access to health services is a major benefit and will enrich their everyday lives. (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rights being accorded by this directive - rights that had, as a matter of fact, already been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union - enable all patients in the Union to benefit from healthcare.
This proposal clarifies and facilitates access to cross-border healthcare, along with the Member State of affiliation's exercise of its right to reimbursement.
The country must take advantage of this directive to modernise even more and compete in terms of being able to provide services in this area to all Europeans in need of them.
Thank you all very much. (HU) Mr President, what I welcome in this directive is a clearer definition of patients' rights, the end of endless waiting lists and the proposed solution to the issue of no professionals being available in one's own country.
If we vote yes, we will be demanding another immense effort on the part of the healthcare systems of Member States with more humble means, but if we vote no, we will indirectly ensure that the application of patients' rights in the very same countries will remain limited.
Let me tell you about the case of German doctor Daniel Ubani, who unlawfully killed my Cambridgeshire constituent, David Gray, by administering 10 times the recommended dose for a painkiller.
Then there is the case of Dr Marcos Ariel Hourmann, convicted for manslaughter for deliberately administering a lethal injection in Spain, yet working at the accident and emergency department of West Suffolk Hospital, also in my constituency, despite a clear request to Spain about his fitness to practise.
These examples show that there is a huge loophole in European law which allows health professionals recognised as unfit to practise in one of our countries the opportunity to work and to put patients at risk in another.
What came through in those speeches was a fear that patients from Member States with a lower standard of living or a lower national health budget would clog up doctors' surgeries in the richest countries, meaning that patients from those countries would be squeezed out.
The need for Member States to retain control over the policy direction and budgetary requirements of their health services was met by the pre-authorisation clause and the fact that Member States would choose which services were carried out.
Overall, we have before us a piece of work that secures Member States' autonomy in their health systems while offering patients best service.
This was a very interesting debate and, personally speaking, very instructive.
And also, it will greatly help our patients that information will be available in one place, in every country.
This directive will also put pressure on all states to provide a high quality service because, in its absence, our citizens will want to travel to another country where that service is available.
Finally, not much has been said about e-health, but that is a very important resource as well, and we will hear more on the topic in future. (HU) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner Dalli, I congratulate Mrs Grossetête on this excellent report.
This is very important in the case of rare diseases.
It is also crucial that, as a general rule, patients cannot be required to make payments in advance.
Once again, please accept my congratulations. (RO) Mr President, providing access to cross-border healthcare services is a basic prerequisite enabling patients to enjoy the best possible treatment available.
The promotion campaigns supported by the cross-border cooperation programmes can provide patients with a level of information which will enable them to use the system, with the fewest possible abuses, in accordance with the approved regulations.
Furthermore, scientific progress is very uneven and therefore, this directive would provide patients with the opportunity to obtain appropriate treatment in another Member State, if it is not currently available to them.
The background to this includes the risks or uncertainties arising in relation to the impact of the directive, for example, in the sense of health tourists seeking high quality but cheaper healthcare.
I am delighted that the regulation includes special measures for these patients in particular.
The regulation thus represents a significant step towards patient mobility in the EU.
The agreement with the Council represents a balance between the positions of the Member States and the European Parliament ... (The President cut off the speaker) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hitherto, access to cross-border healthcare in Europe has been affected by various limitations relating to long waiting times, a complex system of reimbursements and also difficulties in identifying responsibility for clinical follow-up in relation to cross-border healthcare.
The directive that the European Parliament is about to vote on is an important step forward because it clarifies these administrative issues and improves cooperation between Member States, while strengthening healthcare quality and safety standards.
This opportunity is no longer based on an ability to pay but on the genuine right to a more informed choice. (LT) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who contributed to this important document.
The road to the final agreement was very long.
It might at first seem that everyone accepted the document, but there are some sceptics here who fear perhaps uneven service costs or too many bureaucratic requirements and possible health tourism, but in my opinion, the directive really has balanced mechanisms for avoiding the possible negative impact of this document.
The things that deter people from exploiting this opportunity are language barriers and a lack of information.
Health is important to all of us and combining forces will ensure that we move forward in this direction. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, we are debating a directive which truly does resolve the problem of the use of health services in other Member States.
However, we often have to use health services in other Member States, especially for rare diseases and new treatments.
I call on you, Commissioner, to give real support to this initiative to promote these services. (PT) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, this directive establishes rules for facilitating access to cross-border healthcare that is safe and high quality, and promotes cooperation between the Member States while fully respecting national jurisdictions.
This directive is yet another example of Europe being put at the service of its citizens.
We all deserve congratulations, especially the Commission, the Council and our colleague Mrs Grossetête, on their excellent work and on bringing this directive to fruition ... (The President cut off the speaker) (EL) Mr President, cross-border healthcare is a necessity nowadays.
This directive creates the preconditions to a Europe with no borders in the medical sector.
The new Community directive creates new challenges, pressure to modernise the national health systems in the 27 Member States of the European Union and, unquestionably, the need for ongoing networking and cooperation between all the medical systems in the 27 Member States of the European Union, with the objective of exchanging best practices, promoting e-health and achieving permanent improvements in the standard of cross-border healthcare.
This is a challenge that we need to address ... (The President cut off the speaker) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, once again, let me congratulate Parliament on the major achievement of reaching a conclusion on this directive.
Rather, it is an assurance that citizens in need of healthcare can be in a better position to get it, freeing them from bureaucratic shackles that sometimes preclude them from doing so.
I must agree with Mrs Roth-Behrendt, Mrs McGuinness and others that this should be an incentive for Member States to invest in their own healthcare systems because, as I have said in public many times referring to this directive, we do not want to make nomads out of our citizens.
With this directive, patients' rights in cross-border healthcare are now enshrined in EU legislation, but our work does not stop here.
On the other hand, interoperability is also very important for increasing equality in healthcare and improving the sustainability of healthcare.
Much remains to be done, both at European and national level, to ensure that cooperation between health systems in Europe becomes a reality.
I believe that it illustrated very well the points that had been the most difficult to deal with for the participants of the debates during the past years, both in the Council and in this House, and I am also very pleased to note that the overwhelming majority of Members were in agreement.
Yes, this directive will create a clearer situation and a more transparent system to serve the European citizens.
I found that the debate about the single market and the Services Directive, and how all this ties in with patients' rights, was very interesting.
It was a correct step to create this directive through the issue of patients' rights.
I therefore believe that, though through a different approach, we did reach our goal.
Mr President, honourable Members, I am very happy to see this directive created during the Hungarian Presidency.
I am thankful that the excellent cooperation between the Council and Parliament could serve the European citizens to such an extent.
To those fellow Members who have expressed some reservations regarding medical tourism, among other things, I say 'No!
I am expecting you to ensure that this directive is a great success, because that success will be a gift to patients, as finally we are going to recognise patients' rights to high quality healthcare.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12:00.
Patients who will, in other Member States, have unobstructed access to healthcare services not established in their home countries due to certain natural conditions, will also benefit from this.
I congratulate the rapporteur and all my fellow Members who contributed to this success.
Standardisation of healthcare in Europe will take into account the quality of services offered, which must be consistent for citizens of all 27 Member States, irrespective of wealth and the ability to pay, if we are to complete the internal market as far as healthcare is concerned.
Following a long process, we have today adopted the text of the directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
The new legislative framework will enable citizens of any Member State to receive healthcare in another Member State under the same conditions as they would enjoy in their own country.
Such mobility will enable patients to avoid national waiting lists completely legitimately, and to take advantage of the medical services on offer in other European countries.
We are not aiming to promote medical tourism with this, but rather ensure Europeans' full mobility within Europe under equal conditions, meaning that from now on, we can all choose to seek treatment wherever it might be fastest, most effective and of the highest quality, and be reimbursed for the costs by the Member State of affiliation, under the exact same terms as if the healthcare had been provided there.
The entry into force of the 'patients without borders' directive is a great opportunity for all patients in the European Union but, most of all, for patients from countries which are less well developed, where the healthcare services leave much to be desired.
This concerns, in particular, a reduction in the long waiting lists for people waiting for certain kinds of hospital treatment.
The obligation to establish contact points in every EU Member State is important for patients.
This will give them more information on the options for treatment in another country, and also on the record of hospitals in other countries in the treatment of rare or very serious conditions.
In particular, it will be important to gather information on who is using these services - only better informed and affluent social groups, or all who need treatment.
The free movement of labour and the development of tourism necessitate a solution to the problems of cross-border healthcare.
The risk of possible abuse - I refer here to 'medical tourism' - must not constitute a barrier in this case, but naturally, we must do everything within our power to reduce it to a minimum.
An additional important aspect is that cross-border healthcare also has great significance in cases where the appropriate level of treatment for a certain disease is not available in one Member State but is available in another.
I believe that the proposal is balanced and represents a compromise between the Member States' reservations and the European Parliament's ambitions.
At present, there is too much uncertainty surrounding the issues of access to healthcare, reimbursements and responsibility for clinical follow-up in relation to cross-border healthcare.
This directive allows all patients - not only the best informed or richest - to enjoy a series of healthcare rights which have already been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
The directive stipulates cooperation between Member States, especially with regard to recognising medical recommendations (treatments, prescriptions, etc.) made in another Member State, e-health and HTAs (high technology assessments).
The reference network created by the national contact points will facilitate the public's access to this information.
It was essential in order to safeguard our social protection systems that we re-establish a prior authorisation system for hospital or cost-intensive treatment.
Similarly, the reference to Article 168 of the Treaty was necessary in order to ensure that the prerogatives of the Member States in terms of organising their public health systems were respected.
Annex - Position of the Commission Amendments: Directly acceptable: amendment 107 (Text as a whole, Block No 1, compromise amendment).
The Commission is in favour of the adoption of the compromise text by the colegislators.
