International adoption in the European Union (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission, by Mrs Angelilli, on international adoption in the European Union - B7-0670/2010).
However, where suitable conditions exist, children have the right to be adopted, above all at national level, but also at international level, within the European Union.
The strategy on the rights of the child focuses on the fundamental rights of children, including the protection of the best interests of the child as enshrined in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We therefore have to remember that, currently, no European Union legislation on international adoption exists.
The subject is regulated by the Hague Convention of 29 May 1993 on protection of children and cooperation in respect of inter-country adoption, as well as by national laws.
Its aim is to implement Article 21 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child by establishing safeguards to ensure that inter-country adoptions take place in the best interests of the child and that the child's fundamental rights are respected.
Internationally, the Commission supports the accession of third countries to the 1993 Hague Convention on inter-country adoption and its correct implementation by participating in relevant meetings of the contracting parties.
The Commission does not consider specific European rules on intra-EU adoptions to be necessary, as all 27 EU Member States are parties to the Hague Convention.
The Commission's Green Paper on the free circulation of public documents, published on 14 December 2010, addresses the lack of mutual recognition of adoption decisions as civil status acts between Member States and its impact on the freedom of movement of EU citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the issue of international adoption is particularly important, and Mrs Angelilli has done well to bring it to the attention of the European Parliament in this sitting.
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and its underlying philosophy must be the basis for international adoption laws within the European Union. (RO) Mr President, I welcome the interest shown by my Italian fellow Members in the situation of abandoned children, an interest which we all actually share.
This also applies to the 22 285 children in foster care.
I am referring by this, for example, to a number of children's courts in Italy which issued seven adoption judgments in 2009 relating to children from Romania, with complete disregard for our legislation. (RO) Mr President, I welcome this debate during the European Parliament plenary session, starting with the assumption that the protection of children's rights is and must be a priority for every Member State in our Union.
It goes without saying that common, strict criteria implemented by Member States are required to improve the care and living conditions for children living in institutions and who have been abandoned and to ensure their protection when they are adopted, especially in the current climate, where budget austerity seems to be the only thought which the European Union's right-wing governments have.
The second step is to combat child trafficking and prostitution.
Between 1997 and 2000, Commissioner, Romania 'exported' 9 150 children.
Finally, I would like to ask, through your good self, for Commissioner Reding to explain the allegations which have appeared in the Romanian and international media concerning the European Agency for Monitoring International Adoptions, a proposal which also seems to feature in the study commissioned by the European Commission.
It is therefore our duty as legislators to strengthen the right to international adoption within the EU in order to help these children.
Article 24 of our Charter of Fundamental Rights also demands this when it states: 'Children shall have the right to such protection and care as is necessary for their wellbeing'.
I welcome the Commissioner's statements in this regard. (PL) Mr President, this is a very important subject, but also a sensitive one.
We must do everything in our power to ensure that as few children as possible end up in orphanages.
While we know that the Hague Convention essentially governs inter-country adoption, we also know that 26 of the 27 Member States are signatories to it.
This topic cannot be avoided because the European Union has a responsibility to protect children's rights while, at the same time, we are also seeing that the issue of adoption and, as a matter of fact, as its direct consequence, international legislation and international practice, blow certain rights out of proportion, making the adoption of children impossible and thereby curtailing their other rights.
Commissioner, I really would like to ask that we move forward as regards your comments in your introduction concerning the lack of an international law that could already exist in the European Union on accepting adoption documents in Member States. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of inter-country adoption is at least as important as the issue of cross-border divorces and also deserves the same level of attention, particularly because it most often concerns children who are emotionally, financially and, in every other possible sense, at the mercy of decisions made by adults.
The overview of the practice is at least as important as legislation.
I would therefore ask the Commission how it intends to support a possible commitment from Romania to remove the moratorium on international adoptions and, furthermore, I should like to know the Commission's position on the possibility of creating a European adoption agency, including in the light of the studies carried out. (PL) Mr President, adoption can, and often does, work for the good of the child, but the procedures related to adoption can also give rise to abuses, such as the trafficking of children and taking children for adoption from families which have not abandoned their children at all, but which often, because of poverty, are not able to give their children the right environment.
Poverty must not be the reason for depriving a child of its biological family. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, we find ourselves discussing what is a terrible contradiction for the European Union, which aims to ensure full freedom of movement for its citizens and to work for their needs.
I would like to highlight a confusion which is often made between the number of children who have been separated from their parents, but are in the care of the protection system, and the number of children available for adoption.
Clearly, these children are our priority.
However, we must also add the possibility for greater cooperation between the Member States for collaboration in international adoptions, as well as supervision in relation to the protection of adopted children, obviously.
We therefore ask for more streamlined procedures for the families and the children, because in a few years' time, these former children and young people will have become men and women and will ask themselves why a Europe full of potential host families left them in their condition. (SK) Mr President, I would like to present a slightly different view on adoption.
The social situation of parents must not be a reason for deciding that their children should be adopted.
I would be even more delighted if we could bring the same energy and sense of urgency to bear in attending to the good of families and their needs in all European policies. (ES) Mr President, international adoption that is inspired by the principles of prevalence of the interests of the child and respect for his fundamental rights is an appropriate means of finding a family for children for whom a family cannot be found in their country of origin.
Let us look at some of the statistics: there are more than 145 million abandoned children in the world; in Russia alone, more than 600 000 live on the streets; since 1980, more than 2 million children have died in armed conflicts; more than 600 million children live in extreme poverty; more than 5 million die every year; more than 130 million children in developed countries grow up without access to a basic education due to their poverty, and 60% of them are girls; 7 million children worldwide are subject to sexual slavery.
In the best cases, the children become objects of commercial exchanges that certainly offend our dignity, but unfortunately, they are often also victims of exploitation and violence.
In the light of these figures, I believe that the green light should be given to the long-heralded need for Europe-wide coordination of national laws which, firstly, will help simplify inter-European adoption procedures and, secondly, will guarantee that the fundamental principles of adoption are observed when children are adopted from third countries. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly congratulate Mrs Angelilli on the timeliness of this oral question.
There are over 1 200 members of that Association: many have adopted and some wish to adopt.
Even so, there are still too many cases in Europe of children being abandoned who, in the best scenario, end up in orphanages.
Specifically, urgent measures must be taken to react to the abuse and trafficking of children, which, as a report in my own country today shows, is alarmingly on the rise both within and across European borders.
I would call on the Commission to play a more active role in the field of international adoption, to take concrete steps to improve the convoluted and confused legislative framework which currently governs international adoption in the EU, and to protect those most vulnerable young people. (SK) Mr President, we are talking at this moment about international adoptions because there are children in every country who, for various reasons, cannot be placed in functioning families or in replacement families in the same country.
I would like to emphasise strongly that we must take great care in this situation to uphold not only national laws but also international laws, in order to prevent the risk of abuse, trafficking and the abduction of children. (RO) Mr President, I, too, would like to refer to the UN Convention, which states that international adoptions can only offer an alternative means of supporting the child when the child cannot be placed in an adoptive family or cannot be cared for in a suitable manner in his or her country of origin.
When we discuss adoption, our main consideration must be to safeguard the child's welfare.
After everything that we have succeeded in doing here in Parliament, we should not have just one small recital on this issue in the Human Trafficking Directive.
The issue I wanted to bring to this House's attention is the good work that Mentor UK has been doing on the rights of kinship carers.
This is something which I felt people had touched upon in this debate, but I would urge you, if you are interested in the issue of kinship carers, to look at the work of Mentor UK and the help that is given to kinship carers in different countries.
I have five points to make in summing up the debate.
First, the Commission fully agrees with the views that have been expressed on the importance of protecting and promoting the rights of children in inter-country adoptions.
Therefore, let us pray that hearts and minds are brought into play in a way that best protects the interests of children, both our children and children in other countries.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 19 January 2011.
There are thousands of orphaned or abandoned children who live in substandard conditions.
In many legislations, the assent of the biological parents is still necessary, even if these have completely abandoned their children.
The particular references to children in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and in Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union make it possible for us to take up this question, and they also oblige us to do so.
In Europe today, we are facing a situation in which in countries where abortion has been accepted and is widely available, there are not many children for adoption, while in other countries, there are many such children, and apart from the youngest of them, they have no chance of finding a family of their own.
Furthermore, there is a growing number of couples who find it difficult to have their own children or who are affected by fertility problems which cannot be treated.
