Amending budget no 1/2010: Section I - Parliament - Estimates of revenue and expenditure for the year 2011 - Section I - Parliament (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Maňka, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on Draft Amending budget no 1/2010 of the European Union for the financial year 2010, Section I - European Parliament, and the report by Mrs Trüpel, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of Parliament for the financial year 2011.
During the budget procedure for 2010, it was agreed that we would preferentially use an available reserve in Heading 5 for financing additional costs arising directly from the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's budget for 2011 is the first real budget for our Chamber since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
We have enlargement, we have more competences and we have more duties, so the 20% figure must not necessarily be regarded as fixed.
The Bureau has proposed a figure of 20.46% - in other words, EUR 39 million above the figure for 2010.
The majority in the Committee voted to place these increases for assistants in the reserve on the basis of the argument that this should be better evaluated and decided later in the year.
I would like to make the green position on this point clear, which is that we need to be sensitive to the general debt problems and my group therefore believes that we should waive this increase of EUR 1 500 for the next year.
It is therefore very pleasing that we have succeeded in improving our own environmental protection data, one example being a 12.9% drop in CO2 emissions in 2008.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, it is always controversial when you discuss your own budget, and we have seen that in our discussions on the amending budget and in our own budget for 2011.
However, I am pleased that most of the issues have now been resolved for 2011 within the Committee on Budgets itself.
Another is the buildings reserve, another is the posts which have now been put into reserve and another is the second tranche of EUR 1 500 per Member per month for the assistants' allowance.
The compromise reached here was to reduce the figure allocated for office holders down from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 400 000 and, of course, documented evidence of receipts must be provided when any claims are made.
One thing, however, has also become clear in our discussions on the 2011 budget, and that is if we are to fund extra responsibilities in the future because of the Lisbon Treaty, we must also find efficiency savings elsewhere.
That is welcome, but I believe we need to do much more in the future.
This will give the European Parliament the chance to shape the budget, but also to shape our priorities and to identify savings ourselves, but in the meantime, we should continue to work to ensure that our budget for 2011 is acceptable to Members, to this Parliament and, of course, to the public as well.
Madam President, we have had an interesting debate on Parliament's own budget for this year and next year.
Nonetheless, I would like to say that the ALDE Group does not accept, and will not vote in favour of, a further EUR 1 500 per month increase in allowances for each Member so that they can employ further assistants.
Let me explain: the Budgetary Control Committee has voted unanimously against approving the Council's 2008 accounts due to a lack of transparency.
That said, in times of crisis like those we are in at present - the worst economic crisis in 60 years - I would point out that, as MEPs, we, too, and indeed we, specifically, should exercise particular care with the money entrusted to us.
We must acknowledge that this was anything but an easy task, as witnessed by today's debate.
A minimum 5.5% increase in expenditure allows us to increase the European Parliament's staff by taking on 18 new employees.
We are paragons of thrift as we are accommodating all the new functions as part of an overspend of just 0.28% on the agreement reached many years ago so that the European Parliament's expenditure does not exceed 20% of the European budget's administrative costs.
I have to wonder how it was possible for Members to have worked in the committees and the presidiums in the past in such a way that there will be no change as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I am profoundly convinced that the budget of the European Parliament should be significantly increased. (NL) Madam President, Parliament's draft budget for 2011 is EUR 1.7 billion.
Madam President, EUR 6 400 is a huge amount of money.
Each Member of this House should have to get up and go to bed every day with the thought that he or she will cost, or has cost, the taxpayer EUR 6 400 that day.
In this House, more is always better.
All I can say is that we are doing ourselves no favours if we create working conditions for ourselves in this House that effectively make it impossible for us to work.
Anyone who works in this House needs staff.
We need to take the necessary steps to bring about real changes and real cuts in Parliament's budget. (NL) I should like to come back to the idea of twice adding EUR 1 500 per month to the secretarial assistance allowance.
I would like to say to Mr Bokros that there is a way to achieve savings through objective methods.
In the coming days, we will be debating and voting on the 2010 amending budget of the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
I would also like to make a request to the Council for us to be able to finalise these budgets as soon as possible, so that both institutions can carry out their responsibilities in a responsible and efficient manner in the new or expanded areas introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have all heard how controversial the debate about this 2011 budget is.
You have seen the full spectrum of viewpoints here, from Mrs Gräßle from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which is very settled in favouring these increases - including the EUR 1 500 - in order to safeguard its ability to work, to other Members, who have said 'We do not need this' or 'We need to evaluate much more precisely how the increases can be justified and provide ourselves with an overview, including of the individual committees and working areas of this House'.
As rapporteur, I would like to point out that the majority of the Committee on Budgets decided to place the additional money in the reserve - it has thus not yet been agreed by the Committee on Budgets - and to demand a precise evaluation.
We need to get this evaluation on the table, and then in the autumn we will once again have to very seriously get to grips with these results so that we will be able to further negotiate with the Council in October under the new budget procedure and also so that we can find a majority position internally here in Parliament.
The vote on the report by Mr Maňka will take place tomorrow, and the vote on the report by Mrs Trüpel will take place today at 12.00.
I should like to emphasise that European citizens want Parliament to perform its duties impeccably and, in order to safeguard this, it is important for its members, its committees and its political groups to have the necessary resources.
