Situation in Japan, including the nuclear power plant alerts (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Japan, including the nuclear power plant alerts.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, on behalf of the Council I want to begin by conveying our condolences to the people of Japan, those who have lost loved ones and the many others who have been touched in one way or another by the tragic events over 10 days ago.
I also pay tribute to the courage and fortitude of those who are now struggling to tackle the consequences of the terrible earthquake and tsunami, as well as those endeavouring to deal with the consequences of the nuclear incident.
The European Civil Protection Mechanism was activated in order to help coordinate assistance offered by the Member States.
On behalf of the Council, I would like in particular to thank Commissioner Georgieva and the High Representative for a swift, comprehensive and very coordinated response to the disaster.
The EU civil protection team deployed in Japan has our full support.
Individual Member States have also been prepared to make very generous offers of assistance.
Ministers already had a preliminary debate on the matter at the Ecofin breakfast on 15 March.
Obviously one of the main concerns for us all is the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
We promptly convened the Working Party on Atomic Questions and an Extraordinary Energy Council in order to assess the situation in Japan, as well as its possible repercussions on the EU, and reflect on the EU response.
It is thanks to their tenacity in extremely difficult conditions that one can now see some hope regarding the situation of the nuclear plant, although it remains serious.
Several Member States are making a contribution, either bilaterally or through various coordination mechanisms operated by the Commission or the International Atomic Energy Agency.
As the Hungarian Minister for Rural Development, Sándor Fazekas, was told at the meeting of the Environment Ministers, for the moment the events at Fukushima nuclear plant have no consequences for the population in the EU.
Radiation levels in all Member States are normal and appropriate controls are in place regarding foodstuffs imported from Japan.
However, the accident at the Fukushima nuclear plant calls for an effective EU response.
There are certain lessons to be learned from this accident.
An assessment needs to cover both existing and planned plants, and we must make full use of international organisations and bodies, like the International Atomic Energy Agency, and other international associations like the G20 to involve other countries.
It is obviously important that the message to the public regarding the situation in Japan is clear.
It is important to recall that there has been a legally binding framework in place in Europe for over 25 years.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, honourable Members, the Commission has expressed the solidarity of the European Union with the people and government of Japan.
We have expressed our deep sympathy.
We are awaiting further offers and will be taking delivery of and distributing aid consignments in Japan in the coming days: on Thursday - in other words, tomorrow - and on Friday.
We have also offered to assist at the nuclear power plant complex, but our assistance has not yet been requested.
Where nuclear energy is concerned, we are in close contact with the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and are monitoring, assessing and analysing the safety situation in Japan closely.
At the moment we are assuming that the Japanese engineers and technicians and the Japanese Government will regain control over this nuclear power plant complex and that further damage from the disaster can be avoided.
We are assessing what lessons we should learn from this for Europe.
We are therefore proposing that we look at whether it is meaningful and appropriate, in view of the already recognisable causes and the emerging information on the causes of the incident in Japan, to carry out a safety check - a stress test; in other words, an extraordinary test based on common standards and criteria with the aim of further reducing risk in the 143 nuclear power plants that are operated in the European Union, as well as for the building of any new plants in the European Union.
The Member States are themselves responsible for deciding whether they want to perform a general and special common stress test in Europe.
It is clear that our authority in respect of a stress test outside of the European Union and its Member States will depend greatly on whether we can organise this jointly in Europe.
We will therefore prepare these safety criteria in the coming weeks and we are happy to cooperate not just with Parliament, but also with all those involved in the European Union - with NGOs, energy enterprises, workers, technicians, engineers in the power stations - with the aim of achieving the greatest possible further reduction in risk and increase in safety.
We will be happy to provide Parliament with information on how to proceed further at any time via its specialist committees - as we have already done in recent days in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy - and we look forward to corresponding support from the European Council here in Brussels tomorrow and the day after.
At such moments we can only show solidarity with the Japanese - a solidarity that is expressed in our thoughts and prayers, but also in practical assistance.
Some are building new nuclear power plants and some are decommissioning them.
That is the situation we find ourselves in - in other words, the situation is different in different Member States as regards vulnerability, but we are nevertheless in this together and we need to take a long term- approach to our energy supply.
We quite simply have to switch our energy systems so that we reduce the risks and the one-sided nature of these systems.
We must make a serious effort to prioritise research and development and investments in, and the expansion of, long-term sustainable and renewable energy sources.
The collective stress test for nuclear power plants in all countries is therefore necessary, but then what is needed is a long-term approach.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, the images of the massive earthquake and tsunami in north-eastern Japan are terrifying; our thoughts and heartfelt sympathies go to those who have lost homes and loved ones.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, let me express my admiration for the stoic Japanese resilience in the face of these mighty forces of nature.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course this situation requires that we should assist Japan as best we can and with all the resources at our disposal.
The Japanese know better than anyone else all the horror entailed not just in this situation, but also in what is yet to come.
Perhaps the Ukrainians, who have witnessed the devastation of part of their country for the last 25 years, are the only others qualified to speak about this.
For me, current European discussions, unlike those of 25 years ago, should consider the political implications when we discover that in our own countries we have a technology that can get out of control, not just annihilating the past in certain regions or destroying the present, but also reaching insidiously into the future of all those living in the vicinity of these plants, as well as in the wider environs.
I do not believe that we are doing this when we talk about stress tests, Mr Oettinger.
If these stress tests are intended to reassure the public and once again to suggest that we in Europe could never be faced with situations like those currently experienced in Japan, then I believe that these tests are wrong.
The hitherto responsible authorities have turned a blind eye far too often to the difficulties encountered in European plants and have approved plants that never should have passed the conformity assessment procedure, as Euratom did in the cases of Belene and Mochovce, for example.
Madam President, like other speakers I would like to express my condolences to the people affected by the tragedy in Japan, a tragedy that is still ongoing.
on behalf of the EFD Group, - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish to express my sympathy and admiration for the dignity, fortitude and cohesion demonstrated by the Japanese people in the face of the sort of catastrophe that the world has rarely seen in terms of size and severity.
The behaviour of the Japanese people is truly an inspiration to all and they deserve our help.
The lesson to be learned from this experience is the need to strengthen the European civil protection system through more closely coordinated action and the wider availability of people and resources so that we can act quickly in the event of disaster.
Beyond that feeling, we must of course participate in the rescue effort because the situation is, I believe, far from being stabilised in Japan.
One of the lessons to be learned from this disaster is that the most effective emergency relief is, in the end, the one that arrives by sea.
The situation is not stabilised and many homeless people are still suffering from the cold and from hunger.
The nobility and composure exhibited by the Japanese people in this time of trial is worthy of the greatest respect and is an example for the whole world.
The experience currently being gained by the Japanese engineers and nuclear power experts in accident prevention is unique.
While Japan will undoubtedly learn swiftly from these events, Europe too must take these lessons on board and our reaction might be broken up into two areas.
The largest collection of such material is housed at Sellafield nuclear plant in England just 280 kilometres from County Louth.
Therefore a free trade agreement is of special value and we should conclude this agreement as soon as possible. (PL) Madam President, as a member of the European Parliament Delegation for relations with Japan, I would like firstly to convey expressions of sympathy and solidarity with the Japanese nation in the face of this enormous catastrophe.
It has claimed almost 10 000 human lives, over 16 000 people are considered missing, and these numbers are constantly changing.
The earthquake and the tsunami have caused unimaginable destruction.
In the opinion of some experts, the situation is serious and may result in a repeat of what happened after Chernobyl.
The declaration of the Hungarian Presidency and Mrs Ashton concerning humanitarian and expert aid should be given substance as quickly as possible in close cooperation with the Japanese Government. (DE) Madam President, just 14 days ago, the Japanese company Toshiba and others that built nuclear power stations wrote in their promotional brochures that they had the safest nuclear power stations in the world - so much for the claim that we in Europe definitely have the safest atomic energy plants.
I believe that this extremely serious and tragic accident in Japan should make it clear how absurd it is to equate nuclear power stations with wind farms, energy efficiency or solar power plants when discussing the fight against climate change.
My first specific question to you, Mr Oettinger, is as follows: is it not high time for you to include at least one scenario in the Energy Roadmap 2050 that simply shows what we can achieve by combining 100% renewable energy and energy efficiency?
The European Union should finally halt the promotion of nuclear energy and terminate the Euratom Treaty.
Billions in taxpayers' money is still being poured into a dangerous, high-risk technology, while safe alternatives like renewable energies remain under-funded. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be a serious mistake to turn this debate into a kind of trial against the risks of modernity.
It will therefore take good politics, what we make together as institutions, to determine whether we currently have solutions to go beyond today's atomic age into the future or whether we must carry on taking these tools into account in the long term to enable the further development we all need.
I do not hear much about this in this House, because we are all concerned about a political discussion that is attempting to drag in future concerns that do not really have anything to do with what is on the agenda. (RO) Madam President, the crisis which is unfolding at the moment in Japan raises concerns about the safety of nuclear power plants worldwide.
The European Commission must not only ensure that the Nuclear Safety Directive will be implemented properly, but also monitor closely, along with the competent authorities in the Member States, the state of these power plants.
Secondly, on top of the two natural disasters - earthquake and tsunami - there is a third disaster, this one being nuclear and therefore man-made.
Everything that has been said on this matter can be summarised in one word: hiatus.
However, you really need to tackle this now and clarify your position, because what you said last week was that we should have a debate on Europe and on a future for Europe without nuclear energy.
This tragedy has evoked great sympathy, and in so doing has also started the discussion we are currently witnessing in Europe on the future of nuclear energy and Europe's energy strategy.
We recently adopted an energy strategy for Europe up to 2020.
This must be part of building what is, after all, to be a common policy on nuclear energy.
Perhaps this form will be more acceptable to public opinion, because we will not be able to eliminate this type of energy completely. (LT) Mr President, Japan has experienced the unimaginable impact of a natural disaster and a nuclear accident.
The disaster in Japan is forcing us to fundamentally reconsider the issue of nuclear safety.
We cannot control natural cataclysms, so we should at least ensure that natural disasters do not cause additional and particularly painful nuclear disasters.
I agree with the review of existing infrastructure and the creation of new capabilities, but we must thoroughly analyse events at the Japanese nuclear power plant, particularly in light of the Chernobyl precedent.
That is what we must do with the nuclear industry. (SL) Mr President, if we are serious about our climate targets, then nuclear energy will remain part of our energy mix.
We need to reach a social agreement on acceptable technologies, in particular on the role of nuclear power plants.
Finally, I would like to mention the common safety criteria.
Therefore, I think that it is high time that the European Parliament was given more powers in the field of nuclear energy and we ought to reach an inter-institutional agreement so that we can have codecision powers. (HU) Mr President, first, I would like to express my deep sympathy, second, my respect for the Japanese people and the Japanese nation, and third, my greatest admiration for and appreciation of the Japanese heroes who are working at this moment in the power station.
The disaster-stricken country has asked for the European Union's help in the preliminary coordination of the aid offered by Member States.
The Commission's swift reaction was gratifying, as was the fact that it was confirmed by the Commissioner that every assistance would be given to Japan and the almost half a million people staying in temporary shelters following the devastating earthquake and tsunami.
Nuclear research and development must provide answers, better than at present, as to how we can handle nuclear waste and its ever-present 60-year history.
Thank you for listening. (DE) Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Oettinger for taking such a serious-minded and responsible approach to this issue.
These are goods which left Japan two or three weeks - and in some cases two or three months - before the earthquake.
The question is: do we want to accept the rising risks of nuclear power in a world where complex natural disasters and extreme weather events are very much on the increase?
That is the question: do we actually want to take this risk when we have other alternatives? (PT) Mr President, we should like to express here our complete solidarity with the Japanese people, and we too offer our condolences to the victims of the disaster that has struck the country.
We must therefore learn important lessons from what is happening in Fukushima.
We should not forget that the government was already weak before the disaster and without a majority in the Upper House, meaning a crisis of the executive could be in the offing. (DE) Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing my sympathies to all those affected by this devastating situation.
The tragic accident in Japan has led to a nuclear disaster that is now familiar to us all.
We have witnessed Chernobyl - a failed so-called stress test - and now we have Fukushima.
We should consider a Europe-wide phase-out and promote renewable energies. (HU) Mr President, the tsunami after the earthquake in Japan was the direct cause of the accident at the nuclear power plant, which became above all a question of safety for both the profession and the public.
It has become clear that we need a comprehensive, thorough debate in order to reach a rational decision concerning the future of nuclear energy.
Finally, I would like to express my sympathy and esteem for our Japanese friends.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, honourable Members, I have listened attentively to your contributions and would like to thank you for the objectivity you have displayed, both in relation to the disaster and its consequences.
We need to improve cooperation within the framework of disaster response procedures at a European level and must dedicate appropriate financial and human resources to this, as well as coordinating efforts at European level.
When it comes to energy policy in Europe and the lessons to be drawn from the new information arriving from Japan, I believe that we need to start by taking an honest look at the facts and realities.
I wish to express my respect for Parliament, which a few years ago gave its clear backing to the permanent use of nuclear power in the European energy mix, but which has doubtless begun to reconsider this position .
I have re-read the Euratom Treaty very carefully and have also looked closely at the Nuclear Safety Directive adopted by the Council and Parliament in June two years ago.
The second document makes many formal recommendations about the authorities to be established, information and reporting obligations and other points, but offers hardly any specific, material recommendations for construction or operating techniques, or even the most general specifications.
If Parliament proposes extending European legislation today, I am quite prepared not to wait for the reports from the Member States in 2014 before submitting a report to the Commission, but to insist that this Directive should become national law by July of this year at the latest - this would be incumbent upon the Member States - so that it will be possible, as further information is gathered from Japan and from the comprehensive stress tests, to discuss a proposal from the Commission for further specific, material requirements for nuclear safety here in Brussels over the next year rather than later.
When, even in the current climate, I hear criticism from some national governments for an over-dramatic assessment of the situation and the lessons to be learned from it, while others say it is high time I took decisive action, then I prefer to take a middle course.
Many of Europe's 143 nuclear power stations will still be online in ten years' time and, unless present governments have a change of heart, many, though not all, will still be operating in the following decade too.
If we consider the referendum to be held in Italy in June, then we can see what is coming down the line and I note that with the exception of Germany, none of the thirteen Member States who operate nuclear power plants have changed their policy on this issue.
It is in all our interests to ensure that the highest standards apply not only in our own territories, but also throughout the world, as, after all, nuclear power will be in use around the world for decades to come.
Let me turn to the question of the Energy Roadmap 2050 and the criticism we have heard that this does not sufficiently promote and fund renewable energy sources.
We are well on the way to generating 35% of electricity from renewable energy sources - and the Member States are playing their part - while renewable energy sources are set to overtake nuclear power and coal in electricity generation in four to five years.
This means that we are on the way to making renewable energy sources the most important sources for electricity in Europe.
We will present our concepts and scenarios for the Energy Roadmap 2050 in late spring.
However, there are other significant dates besides 2050, which might seem far off - there are also interim targets for 2025 and 2030, in other words for the period that requires investment in infrastructure and production capacities right now.
I do not want to make concrete commitments here at this point, but by 2030 we will certainly have gone beyond 35% renewable energy sources, reaching a figure of over 40%, or even 60%, or somewhere in between.
You can rest assured, Mr Turmes, that the scenarios will seriously examine something that has been proposed by various bodies, namely a move to up to 100% renewable energy sources.
Through sympathy we can help the Japanese with all they need; we can listen to them and take action where they, too, see a need, and a cool head is required in order to make the right decisions in good time about our own future.
One thing that is certain, and no one in this Chamber has disputed this today, is that we must strive to achieve maximum safety with all our strength.
Commissioner Oettinger also pointed out that the energy mix is a national competence.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Written Statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (HU) First of all, permit me to express my profound condolences to the Japanese people and the relatives of the victims in connection with the exceptional natural and industrial disaster which happened barely 12 days ago.
The Japanese tragedy reminds us that natural and industrial disasters can occur anywhere at any time, even in Europe, too.
This is precisely why I believe it is important for the European Union, in the event of a potential industrial disaster in Europe, to have at its disposal an adequate financial facility to intervene immediately and effectively, and to alleviate damages.
I am afraid, in fact, that the usual opponents of nuclear power, often financed by oil companies, will try to exploit events in Japan to promote Italy's energy dependence on oil and its by-products.
More than 8 000 people in Italy and more than 350 000 in Europe die each year because of pollution caused by burning oil by-products.
in writing. - (RO) I share the sentiments of my fellow Members who have expressed their condolences to Japan and the Japanese people in the wake of the tragedy they are going through.
in writing. - Madam President, I would like to convey my sincerest condolences to the people of Japan, who have suffered from a terrible natural disaster during past weeks.
I would advise everyone to consider their positions dispassionately and keep in mind that the use of automobiles was not forbidden when an Irish scientist, Mary Ward, was thrown out of, and run over by, her cousin's steam car on 31 August 1869.
Instead we should learn our lesson and increase investments both into nuclear safety and innovative research.
in writing. - (CS) First and foremost, I would like to join all those who have expressed sympathy for the people of Japan, stricken by the destructive earthquake and the tsunami.
However, I would like to say - in connection with the alarmist scenarios - that the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki still constitute the greatest ever nuclear catastrophe.
Moreover, after the events in Japan, safety requirements and standards will surely be further enhanced.
I would like to comment on the situation in Japan.
in writing. - (IT) Following the earthquake on 11 March, the consequences of the crisis in Japan for nuclear safety and the global economy have shaken the European Union, which is already grappling with instability in North Africa.
In this context, and giving due importance to the nuclear moratorium decision taken by some Member States, and the fact that public consultations on energy development are imminent, it is important that the Commission should report on the safety situation in European nuclear power plants that could affect neighbouring regions of Member States if an incident occurred.
in writing. - (EL) I too wish to express my condolences and support for the people of Japan suffering from the disaster wreaked by the massive earthquake and tsunami, which claimed thousands of lives and left considerable damage in its wake.
The events in Japan should be a worry for all Member States, regardless of whether or not their countries have nuclear power plants, because if similar disasters occurred, radiation would threaten the whole of Europe.
At present Russian and Belarusian intentions to build nuclear power plants are a major cause for concern for the countries of Eastern Europe, in particular the Baltic States.
The Member of the European Commission responsible for Energy also maintains that Europe should strive for a future without nuclear power plants.
Therefore, once we have assessed the potential radiation threat to Europe, here in the European Parliament we should discuss the risk of nuclear power plants near the European Union's external borders.
The devastating earthquake and tsunami which struck Japan and the Pacific region on 11 March 2011, taking a toll of thousands of innocent lives, was a tragedy which has moved us all.
This aid must be given continuously until the situation in Japan stabilises.
In view of the disturbing fact that the disaster caused an extremely serious nuclear accident, which is affecting the Fukushima nuclear power station and constitutes a fresh threat to life and health, we should review and test the safety of nuclear power plants within the EU.
Japan has very often helped European nations in mitigating the effects of disasters, using its extensive and valuable experience in this area.
An event as unpredictable as an earthquake, which alongside the tragedy of its many thousands of victims has also resulted in a major threat of a nuclear catastrophe, demands that we learn its lessons, despite the fact that we are not directly affected by this disaster.
Therefore, in order to avoid potential threats in the future - because even though they are unlikely they are, however, possible - and to ensure the safety of the people of Europe, it is essential to verify the safety features which are in place in nuclear power plants in the Union's Member States.
Two new projects for nuclear power plants with experimental reactors are being developed on the edges of the EU: one in Kaliningrad and another located in Belarus, 23 km from the EU's external border and 50 km from Lithuania's capital city.
The EU should demand that these third countries take their responsibilities seriously and carefully observe international obligations and standards for nuclear energy.
