Europe was born of an international crisis and, for the first time in 60 years, it is facing a new international crisis that is of a different type but that is undoubtedly serious and dangerous.
The world has become multipolar, but not in the way we dreamed; we dreamed that it would be idealistic, peaceful and multilateral.
That is one more reason why we should make the most of our tools: the euro and monetary policy, technological achievements, industrial flagships, agricultural potential to guarantee the food security of our 500 million fellow citizens.
We do not have a majority in this Parliament.
Baroness Ashton must not allow herself to be called a communist in this Parliament by a man who, in France, has been convicted of denying the Holocaust.
Ultimately, as the second-strongest force in this Parliament and also as a group without which no qualified majority would be possible in this House, we wanted to be represented in the Commission.
You can count on our support if you take seriously what I say to you: Europe will either be a social Europe or it will fail.
The problems in the eurozone today are clear proof of the failure of the weak approach that we have followed over the last 10 years with the so-called open coordination method.
Having said that, my group will support this Commission, with its strong liberal presence, and we are prepared to offer our commitment to advance the European cause with her. (Applause) Mr President, you know very well that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will not vote for this Commission, and, at the same time, we are offering you our ideas, our imagination and our European determination.
If you want to solve the Cyprus problem, you will have our support.
For this reason, Mr Barroso, I am saying that we will vote 'No' now, but that we may be making a mistake.
Therefore, if you can live up to our dreams, and not live up to the expectations that we have of you following today, we will say frankly that we made a mistake, and we will support you. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, some Member States believe the nomination of a Commissioner is a useful opportunity to sort out a domestic problem or settle a political debt.
In his political guidelines, he outlines an ambitious agenda to focus on the issues that matter, an agenda which, in general, we support.
I do not see the EU taking a leading role in climate protection and in development aid.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, in generations to come, children will be told a story.
Then they gave 27 people total unlimited power.
Of course, they already had a flag, and they already had an anthem, but they went about building a new state.
Members of the European Parliament, before you give this Commission power, remember that 60 years ago, an Iron Curtain came down on Europe but now, with this Commission, there is an economic iron fist and it is being felt in Greece today. (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, after the fairytale that you have just heard, I would like to return to reality.
In Germany, the magazine Der Spiegel is already writing about widespread political contempt - and rightly so.
