Today we are talking about violence in Mexico, and I think it is right that we should recognise that Mexican women, both indigenous and non-indigenous victims, receive the least protection from local and federal authorities.
However, violence against women starts in the home.
Journalists are especially in danger, as over 60 have been killed, including, recently, Jorge Ochoa Martínez.
According to the Mexican NGOs and media, more than 6 500 murders attributable to drugs cartels have been recorded for 2009 alone, the vast majority of which were in the state of Chihuahua.
The perpetrators of these acts committed in May 2006 still enjoy complete impunity.
It must not do so until there has been a substantial improvement in the human rights situation in that country.
It is shocking that Juárez is the world capital of feminicide, but even more shocking is the macho culture that explains the inaction of the authorities in prosecuting those responsible for these crimes and in protecting defenders of human rights, including journalists.
These matters, issues relating to the drug trade, and human rights must also be taken up for discussion in May, when we think about plans for cooperation at the next EUMexico Summit. (RO) The Mexican Government must make a firm commitment to combating drug trafficking and respecting human rights and the rule of law.
The cities of Tijuana and Ciudad Juárez featured among the ten most dangerous cities in the world in 2009.
Since 2007, 15 000 murders have been committed in the war against drugs, with the figure in 2009 alone reaching 7 724.
That is why I believe that paragraph 12 in the resolution, in which we state that we intend to make greater use of our financial instrument to reinforce good governance, the rule of law, the structures of a State under the rule of law against the disintegration of the State, against organised criminality, against that impunity, which has been quite rightly criticised, is so important.
We cannot do that, however, by freezing or abandoning our contacts; rather, we must strengthen them. (ES) Mr President, we are all concerned by the increase in violence in Ciudad Juarez, but I trust in the broad measures that the Mexican authorities have put in place in order to effectively tackle this complex situation.
The justice reform passed by the Mexican Congress in 2008 has the potential to address the main systemic problems facing criminal justice in Mexico, although we are aware that the implementation of this reform will require a long-term commitment.
