Political parties at European level and rules regarding their funding (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Giannakou on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the application of Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 on the regulations governing political parties at European level and the rules regarding their funding (A7-0062-2011).
Mr President, Parliament is being called upon today to debate the report which I drafted on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the regulations governing political parties at European level and the rules regarding their funding by the European Parliament.
That is why, having accepted the Secretary-General's report on party funding and his proposal to create a statute and the European Parliament's proposal in the previous 2003 report on the need for such a statute - except that the Treaty of Lisbon had not yet been adopted then - and, finally, the Bureau's decision of 10 January, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, following a serious hearing with all the political parties, chairmen and secretaries at European level and distinguished professors of economic and constitutional law and following a hearing of Transparency International and the EU Court of Auditors, approved this report, which calls on the European Commission to table a corresponding proposal, so that we can have a real European statute for political parties.
Thank you, Mr President.
Article 12 of Regulation (EC) 2004/2003 stipulates that the European Parliament shall publish by 15 February 2011 a report on the application of this regulation and the activities funded.
The Commission will also reflect on how Regulation (EC) 2004/2003 could be further improved in the longer term in order to support the development of stronger and genuinely transnational political parties and foundations at European level, with a view to developing a truly political European public space.
In conclusion, Mrs Giannakou's report and the accompanying draft resolution raise issues that are at the heart of European integration and its democratic nature, and which therefore need our full attention.
As has already been emphasised - and I thank the Commissioner in advance - my committee has worked very hard, holding hearings and many meetings, but we need a proposal, an initiative from the European Commission, which brings together European parties within the law of the Union with a new legal form under public law, with a legal personality that is also valid in all Member States and with a uniform structure that allows them to act as representatives of the European public interest.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Giannakou, thank you for drawing up this report, which I think will be very helpful in spurring the Commission to make progress in forming a better system for recognising and protecting European political parties.
In short, democracy has never survived without free representation, and representation has never been free without plural competition.
It is no coincidence that almost 100 amendments were tabled for this report.
I think that the interest in the report in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was kindled by the notion of the European party system becoming even more flexible, attractive and logical, not to mention suitable for the processes in Europe, by establishing a general political, legal and fiscal status for European parties.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, clear legal regulations for political parties in Europe are an important factor in shaping European society, developing European political debate and helping make the European elections truly European, with European campaigns and arguments rather than the national campaigns and arguments mainly encountered at present.
However, when it comes to the question of funding, this can, of course, be linked to a certain minimum level of electoral success.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, I can only welcome the fact that the European Parliament is taking a serious-minded and practical approach to the issue of the democratisation of European decision-making processes.
The European Parliament should now decisively call on the Commission and Council to take the initiative in this regard.
I do not know, I am not venturing that far.
I think what we want to do at this particular moment is to strengthen the nascent European public space and basically invigorate the debate on European issues.
Secondly, it brings organisational convergence between European political parties and European foundations, which is quite laudable, and thirdly it tightens and clarifies the funding of European political parties, which I think should be the goal for us all. - (SK) Mr President, when we look at the history of European integration and at the current setup and functioning of the EU, it may be said that the EU can be seen not only as a grouping of states, but instead more as a political arena with the potential for creating a genuine European public.
This is possible on the basis of introducing a common political, legal and fiscal statute for political parties at the European level.
Mrs Giannakou's report is on the right lines in terms of making the activities of European political parties and their foundations simpler and more straightforward.
It is a member of the European Free Alliance (ALE), which has been a European political party since it began.
We wanted to draw your attention to this point. (PL) Mr President, European political parties are a new phenomenon in European politics, but, together with the rise in integration and subsidies, they are starting to play an increasingly important role.
Mr van der Stoep, as far as I am concerned you may ask your question.
They are most welcome to do so, but in doing this you are excluding a whole range of parties that are unable to compete for the 25 seats required.
There is no shortcut to democracy, not even when it comes to establishing European parties. (EL) Mr President, firstly my congratulations to our rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou, on her balanced and accurate report.
What this is, is a step, and Europe is willing to throw this money at creating that further step on the road to a super state.
Parliaments are the motors of democracy and political parties are the fuel.
Finally, we also need to look very closely at what paragraph 23 of the report says, because by extension we need to think about the links that European parties would be able to form with parties in the rest of the world.
As enablers for democracy these political parties must have a uniform legal and fiscal status, which would ensure that European citizens have a better understanding of political parties and are better represented.
They discuss European issues, hold party conferences and play an indispensable role in reforming the European Parliament's electoral system.
The own-initiative report to be voted on tomorrow calls on the Commission to reform the legal basis for these European parties.
In future, these parties will be based on a European legal statute and will have a European legal personality.
Therefore the rules of political and legal recognition and the necessary funding must facilitate their action to freely develop their policies and their alternative proposals - because that is the essence of democracy - and they must not be influenced by outside political or economic restrictions.
In view of the fact that European political parties and their foundations should receive more than EUR 30 million from the European Parliament in 2012, however, we must ensure maximum transparency in the management of this funding.
For us, Mr President, a European political union is therefore completely unthinkable.
Between them, the European political parties received around EUR 67 million in European subsidies between 2004 and 2010.
The European Union - with its legislation setting out a single structure and modus operandi for European parties and interfering in their internal operation, their charters and their political programme, on the pretext of allegedly relaxing the funding regime - is opening a Pandora's box of economic and, by extension, political sanctions against political parties in the form of an EU stranglehold on their operation and action, pressure on national political parties to integrate more fully into the anti-grassroots policy of the European Union and an attack on parties that question the anti-grassroots policy, the EU strategy and the authority of capital.
That is why we shall vote against the report on regulations governing European parties, political foundations and their funding. (RO) Mr President, transparent funding of European political parties is an essential means of supporting democratic values.
In the case of my own country, we have Act no 334 of 2006, revised in 2010, in force.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I start my concluding remarks by thanking once again Mrs Giannakou for her report because I think that this debate has very clearly proven that the concern and the issues she raised in her report are legitimate; they are at the heart of European integration and of its democratic nature.
The exchange of views clearly demonstrated as well how sensitive these issues are and, therefore, if this House approves this proposed legislative resolution tomorrow, the Commission will respect its commitment stemming from the framework agreement and will respond to this resolution within three months.
However, as you may have felt from this debate, it is quite clear that this would be a very sensitive, elaborate, political and legal task because there are a lot of issues that are both legally and politically very sensitive.
So this would be one angle, which we would have to look at very carefully.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner in particular for what he said and for the undertakings he made and my fellow members who supported this report.
Firstly, I think that it is important to repeat that, as far as the funding procedure is concerned, the parties will not seek more funding and that the amendment to the 2007 regulation has brought about greater transparency, as Transparency International itself has admitted.
Secondly, it is only fair that the parties should seek a European statute and to bring their statute into line with the European institutions and with European legislation and this is, of course, intended to satisfy the citizens.
We need a European area of active political parties which will bring citizens into the heart of the Union and help them in their daily lives.
This will mean greater participation, more democracy and, in the final analysis, more Europe.
The current system where these parties have a legal personality based on national legislation does not offer the conditions which are most conducive to ensuring effective communication between these parties and the electorate in the 27 Member States.
Although Parliament is acquiring increasing powers there has been no reduction in its democratic deficit due to citizens' ever declining participation in European Parliament elections.
Political parties at European level are essential instruments of parliamentary democracy, raising European political awareness, promoting interest in EU affairs and expressing the will of the citizens of the European Union.
I therefore agree entirely with the rapporteur that it is necessary to enhance the situation of political parties at European level and prepare a clear and uniform legal status and financing model for them.
in writing. - (SK) I would not like to be a member of a political party established on the principles sketched out in the submitted report.
