Indeed, his report calls for greater resources so that the Union can better implement its objectives as set out in the Treaty of Lisbon.
In Jorge Semprún, we celebrate someone who was imprisoned in Buchenwald concentration and extermination camp, someone who fought Nazi forces in France and the Franco dictatorship in my country, Spain.
I mourn his death as both a colleague and a friend of his and I am going to ask President Buzek to send his family and the Spanish Government a message of heartfelt condolence and support, which I am sure that all of us here share. (Applause) (IT) Mr President, there is no doubt that we are facing one of the most critical moments in the economic history of the European Union.
The suggestion in this report that measures of this kind would not increase the total tax burden on the citizens is a lie, of course, and a deception of the worst sort.
Those are the basic reasons why I cannot possibly support this report. (RO) Mr President, the current challenges which the European Union is faced with require a firm, sustained EU-level response.
The report presented today places the 2020 strategy at the heart of the next MFF being drafted, together with the new situation created by the areas of competence and policies stipulated by the Treaty of Lisbon.
Allocation of funding to research and development, at both European and national level, must ensure the progress of all European policies.
The European Council recently adopted ambitious targets for the EU's development.
This same Council must accept that the 5% budget increase being proposed by the report is the minimum condition for achieving these targets.
The forthcoming MFF must be implemented with an economic governance system in place which can ensure the financial stability required to implement European policies.
If we agree that the value of the European Union is much more than the sum of the 27 Member States that comprise it, if we are in favour of high quality, responsible agriculture, if we want to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, if we want to help our Mediterranean neighbours in their transition towards democracy, if we want to keep investing in research and innovation, if we want to carry on fighting climate change and investing in education, training and Erasmus grants, if we still believe in the cohesion policy as a tool for sustainable development and solidarity between our countries, and if we still support, for example, trans-European energy and transport networks - in short, if we still want more Europe - then we must call for a bigger budget for the European Union.
We have put forward various options for doing this, but I have a preference for one of them, and Commissioner Lewandowski knows very well which one it is: it is the tax on financial transactions or, as it is known in many of our countries, the Robin Hood tax.
If people were serious about wanting structural reforms, they could have taken up the suggestion made by David Cameron, for example, of going to the Council and saying: funding is to be frozen, but we demand that unused resources should be able to be carried over to the next financial year, so that we can continue to spend them on viable projects and to save money.
The future viability of the EU should not be measured in terms of decimal places.
This reflects very well the debate on the multiannual budget.
Some money has to be returned to Member States.
That is the purpose of the budgetary complementarity that we want to achieve through this convention-style conference, a proposal that we made to the Council during the conciliation procedure and that we have reiterated in this report.
The report sets out various priorities, some of which are important and others less so, but in any case, they are all very expensive.
Businesses forced to spend GBP 30 million to comply with EU regulations could save this by taking back control from Europe.
We want to achieve our goals, meet our obligations, accept the challenges and keep our promises.
More functions, greater competitiveness, more sustainable growth, more jobs, more research and further integration cannot be achieved with less money, without a financial review, without an evaluation of existing disbursement of funds and without our own resources.
We do not want to freeze the budget.
Financial resources are only a means of achieving the objectives.
However, we must not forget that exiting the crisis also has European aspects: the economic development plan; financial market regulations to prevent this crisis from recurring; the measures currently being discussed on economic governance in the European Union; EU measures which only make national measures more efficient.
Cutting the resources from existing programmes will not replace the need for additional new resources if we want to set new objectives for the European Union, if we want European integration to provide real added value, including for taxpayers, who rightly watch every penny allocated to the European budget.
This minimum 5% increase, which is being questioned, is insufficient for resolving all these issues.
This is why we must also ask questions about European Project Bonds, Eurobonds and other means of funding. (SV) Mr President, I have to say that in all my years in this Parliament, the work of the Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013 is the most pleasant and the most visionary, in short, the most enjoyable - it really is very fine work.
We have taken on board all of the new challenges, but we have also retained all of the old ones.
They want Europe to focus on the very limited number of areas where Europe can actually add value, and leave the rest of the activities to our Member States.
However, this is the only possibility to avoid a scandal about our right to consent that would oblige us to reject the proposal of the Council.
The debate today on the report highlights that there will be a fight in the Council on a number of issues, including the overall increase, the UK rebate and own resources.
I also welcome the compromise on cohesion policy.
Therefore, for cohesion policy, we need adequate funding at least at the level we have now, if not more into the future.
The next financial perspective must be about jobs and growth if it is to be relevant to citizens.
Therefore, as well as a strong cohesion policy, we also need policies for funding research and development in our universities and SMEs.
FP8 therefore needs adequate funding for the future.
We also need partners. (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, firstly, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for an excellent report and for his excellent work on the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013.
One of the main objectives of future financial frameworks is to establish instruments to take the EU 2020 strategy to the grassroots level.
There is a realisation in this report that, without a cohesion and agricultural policy that is robust and strong in terms of its budget, this objective will not succeed.
Consequently, I appeal to you, Commissioner, to ensure that, in the forthcoming financial period, both regional policy and agricultural policy maintain their existing budget levels, in accordance with Parliament's opinion.
They will also need their own additional budgets in the forthcoming financial period (NL) Mr President, the key word for Europe is 'confidence'.
Secondly, commit the cohesion fund to the genuinely poor regions in Europe.
If we sort this out, we will be able to rein in the unnecessary throwing around of money and still come out with a net profit.
The Polledo report has been a failure.
It is also important to make progress towards an MFF, more than 80% of whose funds do not come from national budgets. (HU) Mr President, the crisis compels us to review both national and European Union budgets from the aspect of efficiency and to see how they serve our goals, and how much added value, European added value, they bring to this effect.
Firstly, in the longer term, we need a five-year financial perspective.
If it is the case that 2020 is a seven-year dimension, we should have an absolute condition that the next one will be for a five-year period.
However, Parliament is also passing up an opportunity with the Garriga Polledo report.
This certainly includes the large number of agencies that enjoy an extremely expensive autonomous existence, and agriculture, where some Member States have still not succeeded in introducing a more market-appropriate flat-rate acreage payment scheme.
As the rapporteur for the future of structural policy, I would also say that European cohesion policy should also be included here.
Happily, many regions have succeeded in exceeding the threshold for the maximum funding of 75%.
However, if there is less poverty in the various regions of Europe, then European solidarity may also recede.
This is currently under discussion by the Committee on Regional Development, as is a proposal for an intermediate category of 75 to 90% GDP, as suggested in the Garriga Polledo report.
I do not believe that the temporary Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013 is the right body to make recommendations for such an intermediate category.
We therefore need to drop paragraph 73 from the report.
Otherwise, the report is acceptable. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr President, Mr Pieper, I am surprised to hear you say that Mrs Krehl must be dreaming.
A large majority voted in favour of the intermediate goal when the vote was held in the Committee on Regional Development.
I believe that we will get the backing of the majority here, too, because there is majority support for the solidarity of the regions.
We in the Committee on Regional Development have a different proposal from the one contained in the Garriga Polledo report.
It is true that a 5% increase in the European budget would be better than the Member States' budgetary plans for 2012.
I also welcome the very clear message in the report calling for a significant increase in research and science because that is one of the priorities we need to have.
I would like to say - and I say this to the Commission - that politics and leadership are about priorities.
We need to further increase research and science, but we also need to increase the amount of science and research in regional funding.
But let us remember that we need to set priorities at all levels, at the European level as well as in Member States.
This is not a conflict between the EU and the Member States.
However, I maintain that the challenge of intermediate categories and the safeguard clause is one that we must take on in order to begin a new phase in Europe's cohesion policy and also to realise, within the cohesion policy, the more balanced and sustainable development that we want to assure for Europe over the coming years. (FR) Mr President, the 500 million citizens of the European Union currently make up over 8% of the world's population.
This throng of Europeans continues to maintain, largely through national budgets, 2 000 embassies, 27 armies, 50 joint forces and more.
Let us stop carping about the 2.5% of public spending with which we are supposed to maintain the whole apparatus required to implement the 2020 strategy and to fulfil all the responsibilities accorded to us under the Treaty of Lisbon.
That is why this House should adopt the report. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is vital to the future of the European project, which should involve solidarity and ambitious aims, particularly in view of the budgetary crises that Member States are currently struggling with.
An increase of at least 5%, as recommended in this consensus report, is the minimum if we are to tackle the challenges and stand together.
The report has also persuaded me that European solidarity should be strengthened by the creation of intermediate regions in order to ensure that the cohesion policy provides fair coverage for the whole of Europe.
A planned and successful cohesion policy constitutes per se European added value and will surely prove to be to the benefit of all the Member States of the Union.
The new programme and the new seven-year framework are based on actions in the EU 2020 strategy and are designed to help Europe to recover from the crisis, by promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
The European budget must be increased and must be based on real own resources if we want a strong Europe for its citizens and towards the rest of the world.
The Union budget is a tool for global and integrated development at a time when the Member States alone cannot ... (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is often said that money forms the sinews of war.
Consequently, I am in favour of establishing own resources and a tax on financial transactions.
The report by Mr Garriga Polledo is crucial, almost a complete recast: it recommends a very strong political and financial framework for the European Union.
On the cohesion policy, which is the financial instrument used to create regional solidarity and encourage regional economic development, the report proposes enhancing its objectives by creating a category for intermediate regions so that regions at the same developmental level can benefit ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I would like to say a few words on the need to move towards own resources reform.
There is always a risk that the same coalition that adopts the budgetary decision in the Council can also adopt the same decision in the European Parliament.
The success of a national politician returning home from Brussels negotiations should not be based on the message that the government will pay less to the EU budget but, for example, on the message that the EU will help to make small companies fund innovation projects.
It is clear that the way EU costs are financed should be fully transparent.
I welcome the fact that the priorities put forward in this report are in line with the Europe 2020 strategy and make growth central to European policy.
The future financial framework mirrors the goals set out in the Europe 2020 strategy and is grounded firmly within the Treaty of Lisbon.
This question of how the EU is actually administered is dealt with very succinctly in paragraphs 125 and 126 of the Garriga Polledo report.
I would ask that we should also be provided with an EU 2020 strategy for the administration of the EU.
This would require action not only from you, but also from the entire college and the President of the Commission. (PL) Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Garriga Polledo on having drafted such an excellent report on the Multiannual Financial Framework.
The report gained very strong support within the Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013.
At the same time, I would like to commend the proposal to maintain a high level of funding for cohesion policy.
Cohesion policy not only plays a key role in achieving the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy; its primary task is to strengthen European integration and solidarity by reducing the social, economic and territorial differences that still unfortunately exist within the European Union. (RO) Mr President, the rapporteur started his presentation with a very important sentence, saying that we need to combine traditional European Union policies with our new priorities.
In this context, I would like to welcome the vision of the common agricultural policy outlined in the report.
Secondly, the need to maintain a CAP system based on two pillars, while promoting rural areas as part of the second pillar, is closely linked to the Europe 2020 strategy objectives.
One final point is the need for a reformed CAP in the future, aimed at using the budget more effectively, based on a fair distribution of payments as one of the options for achieving this. (LT) Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the tremendous work they have done.
Therefore, it is necessary to look for new financial instruments, such as the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, etc.
It seems to me that it is precisely that which we need to know, because then we will be able to justify what we are voting for.
Secondly, the debate will also be strongly influenced by the debates on own resources.
Thirdly, what most concerned me was seeing Mr Lewandowski smiling, in what I believe to be a worrying way, when the subject of the tax on financial transactions was mentioned.
It dismisses utterly the idea of freezing the budget after 2013 and insists that even an increase of 5% would allow only a limited contribution to the EU's objectives.
Levelling the playing field in terms of development contributes significantly to strengthening the common market, which yields positive outcomes for all EU Member States.
The common agricultural policy benefits every consumer in the EU.
It is worth bearing in mind that farmers have very low incomes, in spite of the support they receive from the European budget.
The changes that we expect include an increase in funding for sustainable and smart development, and an emphasis on innovation, scientific research and education. (The President cut off the speaker) (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament is sending a clear message today, both to the European Commission and to the prime ministers of the European Union, for a budget up to 2020 which is commensurate with its responsibilities and public expectations.
However, there are also two clear and important 'no's'. 'No' to any splitting of this policy in different sectors and, finally, 'no' to the imposition of sanctions in connection with the Stability and Growth Pact.
I support the idea that all the funding provided by the EU should help improve the general state of the European environment.
Investments at EU level can achieve considerably greater savings at national level, especially in the areas where the EU unquestionably provides greater added value than national budgets.
The continuing debate on the forthcoming programming period shows us that it will be necessary to focus to a greater extent this time on a more comprehensive approach to this primary economic instrument for EU policies.
The rapporteur's idea of merging all policies relating to the 2020 agenda into the single area of the MFF looks extremely bold.
Mr Garriga Polledo's report sets out to define the European Parliament's political priorities for the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period after 2013, both in terms of legislation and the budget.
The proposal puts into practice the principle of territorial cohesion as set out in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
in writing. - I want to draw attention to the proposal in this report for a financial transaction tax (FTT).
A financial transaction tax could deal with two problems at once - how to finance ever-growing demands to put new EU policies in place, and how to make the financial sector contribute to the resolution of the economic crisis that it helped to cause.
At the same time, they will allow the smooth development of policies to safeguard the economic future of Europe.
We would have the resources for investment in research and development, fighting climate change and in building solidarity between the regions of the EU.
This change would bring us closer to achieving the ambitious goals enshrined in the Treaty, and a 5% increase in expenditure would actually mean a very small increase, since inflation currently stands at 3.2%.
In the past, MEPs had only limited influence in talks on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) of the Union.
This was the reason for establishing the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013 (SURE), which defines in its report the political priorities of the European Parliament ahead of the start of talks on the next MFF following 2013.
It is clear from the report of Salvador Garriga Polledo that adequate funding will have to be secured for EU policies if the Union still wants to focus on achieving the ambitious objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Without sufficient new resources after 2013, the Union will be unable to fulfil either the current political priorities or the new tasks and objectives from the Europe 2020 strategy.
We have a great opportunity in the next financial framework to show European citizens that the Union is capable of thinking and acting in their long-term interest, and achieving effective results in securing internal cohesion and solid growth.
The three key areas that promote economic growth are the following: knowledge, innovation, education; or 'intelligent growth' that puts digital society in the centre, sustainable development that promotes more efficient energy use and enhances competitiveness, and inclusive growth that increases participation in the labour market.
The new Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union must be established at Community level and national development programmes should be adjusted to each other in a way that they result in an optimal implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy by creating the necessary synergies.
In times of crisis, the EU's budget should not be increased either.
The new Multiannual Financial Framework is extremely significant because the European Union's future will, to a great extent, depend on it.
In addition, the European Parliament would like the new financial framework to be structured in such a way as to increase competitiveness and promote social integration.
The Europe 2020 strategy indicates the appropriate areas where this assistance should be focused, by outlining the priorities and vision of a strong, stable and modern Europe; a Europe which will have learnt its lesson from its recent economic problems and a Europe which will ensure jobs, energy security and healthy food for its citizens.
I agree with the rapporteur that cohesion policy, which has proven its effectiveness, should be given a place in the new Multiannual Financial Framework which is commensurate with its importance.
Europe is experiencing a crisis.
However, if states coordinated their policies and funding in the area of priorities, they would achieve better results and would save more funds than the amount by which we want to increase the common EU budget.
We must discuss it and debate it more, not only in the European Parliament, but especially with ministers in the Council, with members of national parliaments, and also in the regions, so that they understand that a joint solution will bring not only the best result for our citizens, but will also lead to savings in national budgets.
The European Parliament is presenting the European Commission and Council with its vision of the European Union's priorities for the 2014-2020 period for the first time.
I should stress in particular that the development of a competitive agricultural sector and economic and social cohesion should be maintained as priorities for the period ahead.
The European Parliament's entire vision is firmly grounded in the Europe 2020 strategy.
We have already stated that we need more Europe by accepting the ambitious goals of the Europe 2020 strategy.
In a period when many Member States are suffering from the 'Mediterranean dilemma', whereby the country needs fiscal expansion in order to stimulate growth, but it cannot be done because never-ending austerity measures would be inevitable due to the country's indebtedness, we cannot respond by decreasing or approving the current EU budget that is fundamentally aimed at development.
The possibility of creating such a group of regions is undoubtedly a very welcome development for the main beneficiaries of cohesion policy, which have to make long-term plans.
Parliament's adoption of this proposal today would send out a very important message in the debate on the future shape of cohesion policy.
The Galliga Polledo report devotes much attention to the Europe 2020 programme.
The outcomes show that this fund has been the most effective tool to date for accomplishing the goals enshrined in the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty of Lisbon.
The EU must not forget that making wise investments today in sources of energy will mean capital savings tomorrow. (DE) Mr President, I just wanted to say that the microphone at my desk, number 759, is not working.
