Joint Baltic Sea Research and Development Programme (BONUS-169) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Ek, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the participation of the Community in a Joint Baltic Sea Research and Development Programme (BONUS-169) undertaken by several Member States - C7-0263/2009 -.
This work will be a joint research programme between the states surrounding the Baltic Sea, including, in fact, researchers from Russia, in order to meet the environmental challenges in this area.
BONUS will create a strategic plan with a common focus for more than 500 researchers from the eight Member States around the Baltic.
The EU and the states in the Baltic Sea area will then, together, invest nearly SEK 1 billion in environmental research.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to express my gratitude to the European Parliament and particularly to the rapporteur, Ms Lena Ek, for supporting the European Commission's proposals on the joint Baltic Sea research programme, BONUS.
Science has a very important role to play in supporting public policy in the research and environmental sectors.
The BONUS initiative, together with the efforts made within the framework of the EU strategy for the Baltic Sea region, will provide the structure and the means to address these challenges in an effective and coordinated manner.
I welcome the institutional agreement that was reached with regard to the implementation of the BONUS initiative on 27 April last.
Member States will need to commit to a real common pot for cross-border funding and collaboration before the launch of any further initiatives based on Article 185 of the Lisbon Treaty.
Mr President, BONUS-169 is an important pilot project and it is about cooperation on environmental problems in a particular area.
The programme is supported, in general, by all of the Baltic States.
The BONUS programme has an enormous task to do in bringing to light the many environmental problems in the Baltic Sea.
It has been said that the largest desert in Europe lies at the bottom of the Baltic Sea.
We also have to understand that saving the Baltic Sea will require genuine changes in policy too, mainly in the area of agriculture, but also in other sectors.
The BONUS programme is especially important to the Baltic Sea region.
I would like, in future, for this programme to serve as a model for other forms of regional cooperation in Europe, such as in the Danube or Mediterranean Sea regions.
This will allow us to have a powerful, dynamic and competitive European Union. (LT) The implementation of the Joint Baltic Sea Research and Development Programme BONUS-169 has revealed the catastrophic situation of the Baltic Sea, particularly in those areas where large-scale energy infrastructure projects are planned and are being carried out not just by European Union Member States, but by other countries bordering the EU.
The BONUS programme was initiated by eight Member States.
I am very satisfied that all Article 185 initiatives announced under the cooperation element of the seventh EU framework programme have now been adopted.
The Article 185 initiatives are playing a key role in tackling some of these key issues.
