A report was adopted in a vote of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by an overwhelming majority of 62 in favour and just 3 against.
It is precisely Tehran's uncooperative stance that lends Iran's nuclear programme its suspicious air.
I therefore ask you all to support the amendments I have tabled on the role of Iran in its neighbour Iraq and on the removal of paragraph 53 from the resolution.
In my opinion, the European Parliament already gives sufficient support to the idea that the Union and Iran should have a stable Afghanistan as a common goal in paragraph 55.
As I reach the end of my speech, Mr President, I would like to make one final remark.
Mr Belder's report touches on a broad range of issues and reflects the views of many different interests, but I will concentrate on two issues, the nuclear programme and the human rights situation in Iran, both of which the report deals with extensively.
Regrettably, the last IAEA report, issued on 25 February, confirmed Iran's failure to comply with its international obligations.
When Iranian people wished to demonstrate peacefully on 14 February in support of the situation in Egypt and Tunisia, the demonstrations were forbidden.
I have seen the statement by Socialists and Democrats of the Parliament made on 1 March, and I fully support that.
I remain very concerned about the treatment of Mr Karoubi and Mr Mousavi and I issued a statement on 4 March to that effect.
The information we have suggests there may have been around 100 executions since the beginning of this year.
Her execution has - at least temporarily - been stayed, but as the report points out, Zahra Bahrami, a Dutch-Iranian national, was executed in Iran on 29 January with no prior notice.
I look forward to this debate.
It is really important that the regime in Tehran must not succeed in breaking a broad common front even in this Chamber.
Then one hopes that there would be an end to the death penalty in general and, in particular, for minors and members of minorities.
It is also a contradictory example as regards political freedoms.
Ahmadinejad is no better than Gaddafi and we need to invoke similarly harsh measures to protect human rights in Iran.
Madam Vice-President/High Representative, in this report, the European Parliament gives you the mandate to impose sanctions on individuals responsible for the grave human rights abuses that we see, and we have made this recommendation before.
The various issues on which we disagree with the Iranian Government are dealt with as a single overall challenge: the nuclear programme and Iran's relations with its neighbours, the catastrophic human rights situation in the country and the difficult economic situation.
Baroness Ashton, you must now draw some conclusions from the report.
Disarmament and the creation of a nuclear-free zone should, in my opinion, be an important goal of the EU's Middle East policy, in order to guarantee peace and security in this region.
Iran is naturally an important player in the Middle East.
It is only in this way that we can remove the breeding ground from radical Islam or Islamism, which is rearing its ugly head increasingly often in Europe too. (NL) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, in other words, before the demonstrations in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, the people of Tehran took to the streets.
The lesson that we need to learn is that we have to do everything in our power to assist the opposition and all those who have demonstrated.
I think it is a very good thing that we are very clear about this point in paragraph 32 of your report, Mr Belder.
I would like Baroness Ashton to tell me where she can offer consular assistance, as this is not always offered. (SV) Mr President, violations of human rights in Iran are extensive and are also thought to be on the increase.
This is something that was already disturbingly evident at the time of the election in 2009 and that continues to be so.
In the light of this, I would like to say that I think the priorities that Baroness Ashton has outlined - which is to say human rights, strong existing sanctions and the nuclear programme - are the right ones and should clearly be our main concern.
What has been going on for years in Iran is something which is absolutely unacceptable.
The European Parliament must speak about this.
The criminal Ahmadinejad regime continues to threaten Israel and is attempting to exert its influence in Egypt.
I will make that my last point. (LT) Mr President, the European Union's relations with Iran are more than a little ambivalent.
Hopefully, the Iranian authorities will not order Mistral aircraft carriers in Saint-Nazaire, but will be able to acquire them a little later in Russia, built under a French licence.
The barbarity of the Iranian regime is reflected in its many diverse forms of oppression and in its anachronisms.
Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are the strongest weapons for those who are humiliated and outraged, the numbers of whom in Iran are very large.
I am talking about sanctions and targeted actions against the Iranian nuclear programme, as happened with the Stuxnet virus.
The entire international community, which attaches great importance to democracy and human rights, is alarmed by what has been going on over many years in Iran, and we are trying to decide what measures should be taken.
Turkey is an important partner for the European Union.
Mr President, first of all, I congratulate Mr Belder on his excellent report.
However, the European Union must constantly support the people inside this country, and not only through making statements, who are risking their lives every day to protest against these injustices. (CS) Mr President, in light of what is happening in the Arab world, in Libya, Egypt, Tunisia and elsewhere, the rigidity and immobility of the Iranian regime is even more apparent.
It is an intolerant regime, a fundamentalist regime, a regime which murders political opponents, and a regime which must be kept under international pressure.
We must support the Iranian opposition in exile, which is legitimate, and we have European Parliament resolutions on this.
Cherishing hopes for confidence building is not a realistic option any more, especially since Tehran has completely eroded its credibility regarding its nuclear programme.
Instead, we should address the great potential of people-led democratic change in Iran.
However, the EU's priority should be to extend our clear moral and political support to these forces.
This is possible but less probable.
Of course, Iran can always derive a degree of influence through proxies, but that would probably not prove decisive in gaining control in those countries.
I congratulate Mr Belder on an excellent report.
Just one day after celebrating the 100th anniversary of International Women's Day, I would like to make a special point about the situation of women in Iran, and please allow me to dedicate this speech not only to Sakineh Ashtiani and Zahra Bahrami, but to all women put in jail and those who are missing because of the current Iranian repression.
We know that there is discrimination, and even political and social repression, affecting women in this country, and we should echo these unacceptable facts when considering our approach towards Iran.
We must not forget or overlook the massive uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East and the fact that the Muslim communities are turning towards a political Islam. (DE) Mr President, the green revolution and the latest protests demonstrate quite clearly that there is great potential for civil society in Iran.
Unfortunately, sanctions often hit precisely this young and active civil society.
At this point, I would like to mention Neda, the 'Angel of Iran'.
Operations in the newest nuclear energy plant had to be halted recently due to contamination risks. (FI) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, this report is especially welcome because the European Union must have a clear and consistent strategy for countries like Iran.
Over what was just an 18month period, in 2008 and 2009, Parliament adopted a position on access to justice for 36 Iranian people in connection with single human rights violations.
These poor people and their families are constant targets of a brutal and vicious Iranian regime.
Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, I think that this has been an interesting debate and I wanted to just deal with the two specific issues that were raised in a sense outside of the debate before winding up on that matter.
Therefore I hope, when you see what we do, that the word 'glittering' will be a nice word and not a word, I fear, that suggests I am trying to do something that I genuinely am not.
I have done that and I am more than happy to meet with Ms Hautala, as I do, and to respond to queries from her, as well as to attend the plenary debates in this House.
I am very well aware of my own background in terms of being a leader of a House of Parliament and not being elected, but I was very privileged to be elected by this House and, of course, to be invited into this role by 27 Heads of State and the President of the Commission.
In relation to the debate itself and the human rights issues that have, in a sense, dominated our debate: I am trying to look at what more we can do.
Finally, on the nuclear issue: I spent four and a half days in direct discussions with the Iranian negotiators and I am very clear in what I am trying to do, which is to provide an opportunity for this country, for Iran, to show what it keeps saying, to demonstrate that it is moving in a civil nuclear power direction and not in a nuclear weapons direction.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by offering you all my sincere thanks for your valuable contributions to this debate.
Your contribution makes it clear what my intention is with this report, namely, to point out that our fundamental rights - our human rights, which are so fundamental and form the basis of our existence - are also the rights of the Iranians.
If we just take a look at the facts, we see that for years on end now, over 150 000 young, highly-educated Iranians have left the Islamic Republic precisely because of the lack of any prospects for the future.
The bottom line - and I was told this by an insider who is also an economist - is that this alone generates a loss of 40 billion a year, and that is not including the brain drain.
I would be extremely appreciative if you were to follow the American example in respect of a list of this kind, as we would not then all merely focus on those bringing about nuclear proliferation and thus threatening world security, but also on the terrible prevailing climate in Iran.
I say this as there has been a tidal wave of repression that has hit the Sunnis, the Baha'i and Christians, in particular, over recent months, and I apologise to my fellow Members that my report is not up-to-date in that regard.
For me, this is a spur to do more with Iran - I am working on the basis of an open-door policy - and I hope to be in touch with you on a regular basis in order to help bring about an Iran with a future for its entire population.
The vote will take place at midday on Thursday, 10 March.
