Falsified medicinal products (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Matias, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/83/EC as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of medicinal products which are falsified in relation to their identity, history or source - C6-0513/2008 - 2008/0261 (COD)).
I know that at times, we have adopted differing stances, but I also know that we have had a common objective, that of protecting patients' health.
As I cannot thank all those who have been involved, I would like to offer my symbolic gratitude to all those who worked on this directive by naming Mrs Pantazidou, who gave me immense support throughout the whole procedure.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am very pleased to have this opportunity to address Parliament on this important issue of falsified medicines.
I consider that Parliament found a strong, pragmatic solution by focusing on issues of transparency.
I believe that we have reached a good compromise, as Mrs Grossetête has said.
I would like to thank Mrs Matias very much for taking on such a complex report as a new Member of Parliament.
Madam President, tomorrow, we shall be voting on this revised directive to combat the risk of millions of falsified medicinal products entering the legal supply chain, precisely because we want to protect public health from this silent killer.
My thanks go also to Mrs Grossetête, the shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), and Mrs Roth-Behrendt.
I am also very pleased that, at Parliament's insistence, the sale of medicines via the Internet has been included in the directive, because that was a thorn in everybody's side.
In its initial report, the Committee on the Environment stated that the measures put in place should respond to three guiding principles: proportionality, cost-effectiveness and independence. (CS) Madam President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for an excellent piece of work.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Matias, on a good report.
I am aware that it will not solve every problem, but it is a major step towards increasing patient safety.
Some studies suggest that trafficking falsified medicines can be 25 times more profitable than drug trafficking.
I would like to thank Mrs Matias for her work and also our group's rapporteur, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, who always provides valuable input in this field. (DE) Madam President, Mr Dalli, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs who have done an excellent job.
After all, in China alone, there are 500 factories for counterfeit medicines.
The WHO estimates that 50% of drugs supplied over the Internet are falsified and there are even cases when the legitimate supply chain has been infiltrated.
I very much support this regulation. (PT) Madam President, the problem of falsified medicines obviously poses a serious threat to public health, whether these are prescribed drugs or over-the-counter products.
We have to promote the strengthening of public policies in this area; we have to reinforce public capacity in the field of research and development of new drugs, attacking the monopoly of the pharmaceutical industry and its disastrous consequences in terms of access to medication; and we also have to strengthen public capacity in the areas of production, supervision and monitoring of medicines. (SK) Madam President, I would like to support the submitted bill, which amends and adds to the directive from 2001 on preventing counterfeit medicines from entering the legal supply chain.
In other countries that are not as proficient as these, we have to go and see with our own eyes and touch with our own hands.
As my own speech is also full of flaws, I failed to thank my fellow Members, Mrs Bastos and Mrs Sartori, for the opinions of the other committees.
The vote will take place at midday tomorrow (Wednesday, 16 February 2011).
Annex - Position of the Commission Amendments: Directly acceptable: amendment 120 (Text as a whole, Block No 1, compromise amendment).
