Rule of law in Russia (debate) The next item is the statement by the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on the rule of law in Russia.
Baroness Ashton, as you may know, is travelling in northern Africa and in the Middle East this week.
The brutal attacks on Russian journalists, Oleg Kashin and Anatoly Adamchuk, and environmental activist, Konstantin Fetisov, are among the latest reminders of the climate of insecurity and intimidation that journalists, activists and human rights defenders in Russia face in their day-to-day work.
I should mention here the Moscow City Council's decision to authorise peaceful and regular demonstrations - which were forbidden until last year - such as those in support of Article 31 or the day of press rallies.
We pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who have fallen victim to aggression because of their professions or beliefs, as well as the courageous ones who cannot be deterred from their civil engagement in such a precarious environment.
However, there are positive signs in the situation of human rights in Russia.
We should not be casual with our values either.
Unlawfulness and widespread corruption led to the emigration of 300 000 citizens from Russia last year alone.
I would like to ask the representative of the Council which punitive measures and sanctions will be applied against the Russian officials who are directly responsible for human rights abuses and perversion of the rule of law.
The fact is that around one third of the cases brought before the European Court of Human Rights come from Russia.
The European Court of Human Rights has a backlog of 27 000 cases from Russia alone, yet a Russian judge on the court is able to order the British Government to give British prisoners the right to vote.
I am sorry, but we cannot change the topic in the middle of the discussion. (NL) Mr President, we are having this debate today because the Russian leaders and, in particular, President Medvedev, have themselves so often emphasised the importance of the rule of law to the modernisation of Russia.
Let us take the hand that Russia has reached out to us and help the country to modernise. (PL) Mr President, in common with many of my fellow Members who have already spoken, I agree with the obvious statement that Russia is a strategic partner for the European Union in terms of geopolitics, international security and economic matters.
It is also no wonder that we are so interested in the situation in the most important of our neighbours.
Human rights and the rule of law are also important aspects upon which we should concentrate, as is the case for our other neighbours, including Belarus, for example. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important, alongside our wide-ranging cooperation in the field of business and in the face of global challenges, as has already been said, that we keep the subject of the rule of law on the agenda in all our discussions with Russia.
I believe that the European Union as a whole will have to continue raising these concerns at all levels with our Russian interlocutors.
Second, there was a general consensus in this room that modernisation and the establishment of a fully-fledged democracy and the rule of law has not yet finished in Russia, and there are many problems with the workings of democracy there.
I am sure the coming visit of the Russian Government to Brussels on 24 February will provide us with a good opportunity to reiterate our concerns.
The European Union must stand ready to support Russia in these efforts.
Furthermore, in September 2010, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly asked the authorities in Moscow to adopt reforms to guarantee the independence of the justice system and to end the harassment of lawyers.
in writing. - The rule of President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin is not compatible with the rule of law.
For more than 10 years, Putin and Medvedev tolerated, and possibly protected, an appalling catalogue of abuses and crimes, including stage-managed trials, press control and political murder.
In particular, the representatives of the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia (EUMM Georgia) must have guaranteed and unlimited access to the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, in order to guarantee peace and stability in these regions.
