I would be interested in finding out about this, because companies have come to me in the past with their concerns.
The fact is that in a recent communication the Commission said that open trade depends on fair competition between national and foreign producers, and added: 'we protect EU production from international trade distortions or disruptions, by applying trade defence instruments in compliance with [World Trade Organisation] rules'.
It is a shame that the Commission did not take the opportunity to reform the Trade Defence Instruments in 2007 when we were talking about Global Europe, which was perhaps the original intention.
I would like to emphasise that, in this context, it is also important not only to safeguard the interests of producers, but also to include the interests of consumers and the actual purpose itself, just as Mr Caspary said, namely to put a stop to dumping below the actual costs.
The Commission is under an obligation to protect European companies and their employees from unfair competition using the anti-dumping instruments permitted by the WTO.
China remains, by and large, the main source of unfair trade (around 35% of cases launched by the EU are against China).
The company concerned (Option NV) has now informed the Commission that it has asked the Belgian Government to withdraw the request for the imposition of safeguard measures, but the Belgian Government has not yet informed the Commission whether it will comply with Option's request, so we are waiting for the Belgian Government to take a decision on its position.
There was also a question about possible forms of retaliation towards third countries in respect of pressures exerted on European companies.
Mr Schlyter, your question is an interesting one, I must say, because, as you most probably know, these anti-dumping cases are introduced by companies.
Despite the economic and financial crisis, some 332 protectionist measures have been adopted by our international partners over the last two years.
Please bear this in mind. (DE) Mr President, cheap labour and social dumping are methods which are used very frequently in developing and emerging countries.
The problem of anti-dumping shows how important it is to call for environmental and social standards, in particular, and also trade protection measures during negotiations on free trade agreements with third countries.
