Parliament's position on the new 2011 Draft Budget as modified by the Council (debate) The next item is the report by Sidonia Elżbieta Jędrzejewska and Helga Trüpel, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2011, all sections, as modified by the Council (17635/2010 - C7-0411/2010 -.
Mr President, after many months of negotiations, discussions and tension, we will have finally managed - tomorrow I hope - to adopt the European Union 2011 budget here at the European Parliament plenary session.
I would like to start positively with what I believe to be the most interesting and effective of the achievements of the 2011 budget, and those that are of particular significance for European citizens.
First and foremost, I am very pleased that we managed to reach an agreement on time, that the difficult negotiations with the Member States and the European Commission were completed before the end of 2010, and that we managed to avoid the hazard of a provisional 2011 budget, even though each of the parties, of course, had to compromise to a certain extent.
First and foremost, this relates to the joint position that we drew up, and the unanimous adoption of Parliament's proposal of October 2010 regarding the European Parliament's priorities in terms of budgetary obligations.
First and foremost, during the 2011 negotiations, we saw in practice how difficult it is to implement the Treaty of Lisbon, how many unknown areas remain ahead of us and how much joint work we have to put in to develop practical, pragmatic solutions arising from the new frameworks within which we are functioning.
I would like to know whether the Council intends to adopt the joint declaration - the draft of which we have seen, although I am unclear as to its status - on the Multiannual Financial Framework.
Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for Parliament's budget, I can definitely speak of a political success in respect of this part of the budget.
Parliament's position following the vote on the budget in October has been accepted almost in its entirety by the Council.
The different institutions, in other words, our own House, but also the other small institutions such as the European Data Protection Supervisor, the European Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors, have been given the posts that they desperately need - not as many as they originally asked for, but a number that recognises what they really need.
Parliament's budget - and I think this is important - has been cut by EUR 25 million compared to what the Bureau originally asked for.
That means that we have reached a good compromise between Parliament and the Council, and we have cooperated well.
Parliament, however - and I still believe this is an appropriate request - wanted a clear agreement with the Council on how the Treaty of Lisbon, which the Council and Parliament adopted together, of course - after all, we are not opponents on this issue - can actually be implemented.
This has not been a walk in the park.
However, we perhaps also need to say that we have carried out a new exercise and we have inaugurated a new procedure, and I think - as the rapporteur said just now - that everyone has had to make concessions, everyone has had to make some compromises.
In a sense, then, this is the first implementation of the joint statement that we have adopted together regarding the development of future financial perspectives.
On the other hand, the European Parliament has also put forward a list of requirements concerning its own ambitions in the procedures relating to own resources, and you yourselves have also had the opportunity to become familiar with the European Commission's statement, which demonstrated that, through exercising its power of initiative, it will, in fact, move forward on this agenda and, in this way, it will implement the new budgetary procedure, as well as the coming financial perspectives.
Concerning the 2011 budget itself, it is true that this is a strict budget, with an increase in payment appropriations of 2.9%.
In spite of that, however, we have been able to make sure that the European External Action Service can see the light of day.
By mobilising the flexibility instruments, we have also been able to take into account the political priorities that Parliament wanted to implement, providing EUR 105 million for new preparatory actions, youth projects and mobility projects.
I consider it a shame that we did not seize this opportunity, either on the issue of flexibility itself or on the financing of ITER.
At this point, I would also like to thank all those who have genuinely helped to make sure that tomorrow, hopefully, we can confirm this agreement: President Buzek himself, who, I would say, really rolled up his sleeves during this budgetary procedure, but also Mr Lamassoure, the rapporteurs, Mrs Jędrzejewska and Mrs Trüpel, and obviously Commissioner Lewandowski, who, in spite of the disagreements, came back each time with new proposals, making sure that this procedure finally reached a conclusion.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I welcome, on behalf of the Commission, the fact that Parliament is willing to vote on the 2011 budget, even if not all the elements of the original package - comprising a Multiannual Financial Framework regulation, a new interinstitutional agreement and also financing of ITER - have been finalised.
To achieve these goals, we need to mobilise the Flexibility Instrument to the value of EUR 105 million.
If we fail to agree - and this is the last moment to agree - we lose around EUR 570 million of the 2010 margins and therefore also lose the field of manoeuvre in the 2011 margin.
So I think voting and agreeing ITER should be a win-win situation for all of us.
I have to praise the efforts of the budgetary rapporteur, Reimer Böge, and Minister Wathelet to find agreement in this very area, involving also a degree of flexibility.
Therefore, it seems to be acceptable in this time of fiscal consolidation in the Member States.
Mr President, we are now trying out the effects of the Treaty of Lisbon on ourselves.
The Council was more or less of the same opinion, as it did not modify it much, and only lowered the level of payments somewhat, on the grounds of the big crisis.
Mr Wathelet, you say that there is now unanimity and that you could have had the qualified majority.
I will turn this on its head and say that those who want to have ITER must then also ensure that there is unanimity in the Council for cooperation with regard to flexibility, otherwise they will not get ITER.
In the Council, there is not a single government that is prepared to discuss our own resources.
In the spring, I expect the President of the Commission and you, Mr Lewandowski, to put forward a corresponding proposal on the arrangements for own resources in the EU.
The Member States - the 27 governments - will then have to take a position on this.
I would like to thank the budget rapporteurs, Mrs Jędrzejewska and Mrs Trüpel.
Mr President, I would also like to start by thanking Mrs Jędrzejewska and Mrs Trüpel for the sound and high quality work that they have done on the budget, and perhaps Mrs Jędrzejewska in particular, who has had an unbelievably difficult task under the new procedure.
From the point of view of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, this is a good result for the 2011 budget.
This budget procedure has shown that the Multiannual Financial Framework is very strict and inflexible.
Mr President, Mr Wathelet, Commissioner, just a month ago, although we broadly had an agreement on the figures for the 2011 budget, the four large political groups intervened very loudly and forcefully, asking the Belgian Presidency to negotiate with the Council not only the 2011 figures, on which there was agreement, but also a genuine political agreement for the next stage, a political agreement which would allow us to work together, in the form of a convention or something else - it hardly matters - but also with the national parliaments and governments, on the future financial framework and on own resources.
Everyone was in agreement.
We asked for this at the time, just a month ago, because we thought that we had to guarantee the future of European finances, because we thought that we needed to come to the rescue of the budgets of the Member States, which are all facing difficulties, and because the European Union must have its own resources.
The 2011 budget is about to be adopted.
I am not even sure that the Belgian Presidency itself totally believes what it says, although, if the 'walk in the park' had lasted a little longer, Mr Wathelet, we might have been able to reach a better agreement, a stronger agreement for the future, which would give us more chance of providing proper guarantees for the future.
Even so, we will act properly, and we will accordingly approve the resolution, with all its drawbacks, and as for everything else, we have missed an opportunity, but rest assured that we will be there at the next meeting, because the debate on the perspectives is not over.
The Parliament demanded an increase of 6%, which was ludicrous and showed that this congregation was out of touch.
The Parliament has a right to advise, not a right to codecide.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Mr President, with the adoption of the draft 2011 budget, we come to the end of a turbulent negotiating process.
Now, about the future: the majority of those who will vote for this budget were hoping, at least, that this budget would not be repeated in 2012 and in 2013, but nothing could be less certain.
These are the governments that like sanctions and detest solidarity; they are the governments that want hyper-austerity and not social progress.
It is not a Europe that we can be at peace with, and so we cannot vote for this budget.
Many Members in this Chamber will congratulate themselves on having obtained a 2.9% increase for the EU budget 2011.
They wanted to celebrate the fact that the European Parliament was able to increase its budget for 2011.
I hope that then, you will come with an alternative proposal as to how to finance the ITER, having lost EUR 571 million in the 2010 budget. (SV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that the Council and Parliament have been able to reach an agreement on the budget for 2011 in these difficult times.
I would like to say a big thank you to our rapporteurs, Mrs Jędrzejewska and Mrs Trüpel, and to the Belgian Presidency, which has made a very constructive contribution.
The problems we are facing in relation to the future are actually internal political problems within the Council and between Member States with different attitudes towards the EU and its budget in the future.
This debate on next year's budget has long been about who has done what and why.
A month ago, I was rather critical of how, in the Council, you are looking at the future and the possibility of financing the priorities that you yourselves have presented, and by this I am referring, in particular, to the Europe 2020 strategies, in other words, how we are to finance the ambitious targets that we have in Europe.
This is obviously a good result for David Cameron, for Mark Rutte, but it is also a victory for the hard-pressed taxpayers of Europe who have to pay all the bills of the EU institutions.
You have damaged your cause immeasurably. (NL) During the final phase of the budget procedure, the Council and the Commission made political statements, especially with a view to involving the European Parliament in the financing of the European Union in the long term.
In June 2011, the European Commission wants to put forward a proposal for the financing of the European Union for the 2014-2020 period.
Finally, Mr President, I fully support the position taken by the Dutch and British governments in this conflict. (DE) Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Jędrzejewska and Mrs Trüpel, who have carried out the budgetary procedure with a great deal of responsibility and a clear focus on the priorities.
This financed the enlargement from 15 to 27 Member States without any additional budgetary resources.
As a result of the Treaty of Lisbon, we now have additional tasks.
Budget increases are always difficult.
Now, at the end of the year, when the cohesion of the Union is once again being called into question, the Committee on Budgets is categorically recommending that we end the uncertainty on the 2011 budget.
The Union has also failed to introduce the procedures that would allow it to ensure that, in the absence of Community financing, major joint objectives such as Europe 2020 are incorporated in the national budgets.
I can therefore state here on behalf of my colleagues from the Civic Democratic Party from the Czech Republic and colleagues from the Group of European Conservatives and Reformists that we will support the compromise reached between the Commission, the Council and Parliament in the vote tomorrow. (RO) Mr President, tomorrow's vote can bring to an end the first approval procedure for the annual budget, in keeping with the Treaty of Lisbon.
Parliament initially presented a very strongly united front in maintaining its position.
Parliament must be involved at the same level in both aspects: political and financial. (NL) Mr President, many Members here are taking a hypocritical approach in their statements on the budget.
Voting against would therefore be a very appropriate thing to do, but my group and my country have managed to prevent the situation from being even worse and that is why I have abstained.
Voting in favour of a 2.9% increase in the current climate would be totally inappropriate. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this budget, the European Parliament is showing an enormous sense of responsibility.
However, I believe that, although the 2011 budget is not bad, it could have been better.
This was a portent of the difficulties that the Council will face in reaching agreement on the next Multiannual Financial Framework and on new own resources, which, as we know, require unanimity in the Council.
I would like the Commission to talk about the massive cut of upwards of USD 800 million that there appears to be in rural development funding.
I am concerned about the budget post-2013 and the possibility that agriculture could become a sector where people raid funds for other policies unless there is agreement on an adequate budget for all of the policies of the European Union. (LT) For the first time since the new Treaty of Lisbon came into force, the European Parliament has used the powers it was granted to participate fully in the composition of the European Union budget.
The unsuccessful first attempt to reach an agreement and include the European Parliament's legitimate demands demonstrates a conflict that is still present among the institutions and that should not actually exist, as it is obstructing effective interinstitutional cooperation.
This is the first time that the European Union's budget is being decided in one reading, and, if anything, I think that this process has further stressed the need for better dialogue between the two budget authorities, something that Parliament has been demanding for a long time.
Beside all this crisis, we have a proposed 2.9% increase, limited from the 6% that Parliament already wanted, but on a budget that the Court of Auditors has not passed for many years.
As you know, the European Union made a commitment last June to contribute an additional EUR 1.3 billion to this project, which is crucial for our security.
As a rapporteur for the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, I would like to underline that we support the ITER project, but we do not need a patchwork solution for one year: we need a sustainable financial solution for the next two decades.
As a Hungarian, I am very happy that the Hungarian Presidency will hopefully not have to deal with the budget, but only to find a solution for ITER and for flexibility during the negotiations.
In answer to Mr Belder, who may have already disappeared, the Commission's proposal on how to cooperate between the institutions was in direct implementation of Articles 312, 324 and, specifically, Article 311 of the Lisbon Treaty, for the specific procedure on the own resources decision in full respect of the fiscal sovereignty of the Member States.
It sends a good message to European citizens to have a budget without any deficits or debt and to show that we are not to be taken as a scapegoat for the failed policies in some Member States.
I think that this is a question of logic, and today I really want to thank all those who have chosen to build Europe and to move forward.
Concerning ITER, the way in which we have used this flexibility mechanism for ITER 2010 clearly shows that we will need this mechanism and that we must take up what is before us today.
In the Council, we had almost total solidarity, as everyone accepted the increase of 2.91%.
We have gone from having a qualified majority to having total unanimity within the Council.
Mr President, from what the previous speakers have said, it is clear that we are all pleased that it will be possible to implement the 2011 EU budget efficiently and without unnecessary delays as of 1 January next year.
However, all these speeches have also made it clear that there is still a lack of certain things.
It is clear to me already that the Treaty of Lisbon opens up new, uncharted territory for us and that a very difficult debate awaits us regarding the new multiannual post-2013 European Union budget.
This debate relates to a fundamental issue, namely, how we can reconcile the ever-greater divergence between expectations of the European Union, or, in other words, what the European Union is supposed to do - and we can see that the Member States and all interested parties, including the European Parliament, expect more and more from the European Union, since the European Union is supposed to deal with an ever-increasing number of subject areas, and is opening itself up to new policies, new areas of activity and setting new tasks for itself - a divergence between the aforesaid expectations and an ever-diminishing willingness to finance these new undertakings.
We should talk openly about all the issues: about the EU's own revenues, about what the EU should do, about what it should perhaps not try to do, about what is really most important for us and to what extent these priorities should be financed.
In summary, I think that what happened during the adoption of the 2011 budget is both a basis for and a start of the debate, but by no means its end.
If, as the European Union, we want to be strong and to have new products that will hopefully also be sustainable, new production methods that are environmentally responsible, energy generation that is genuinely based on renewable energy sources, which was once again established as a goal in Cancún, then for this we also need appropriate resources and we need the European budget, which reflects our common interests.
A total of 58 percent of Austria's annual agricultural budget comes from the EU.
in writing. - (EL) The impasse in the first stage of the 2011 EU budget caused by the intransigent stand taken by a limited minority of Member States almost took us into the fiasco of twelfths and all that such a system implies, both in terms of the budgets of the economically weak Member States and the possibility of serious delay in payments of European funds.
However, the problem as to how budgetary needs are to be addressed in the immediate future for 2012 and 2013 persists and I call on this small minority of Member States to demonstrate a proper sense of responsibility and to work with Parliament to find a solution that will give the EU the necessary flexibility to address its needs and prevent a new budgetary crisis.
