Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Mr President, I voted in favour of the agreement between the European Union and the United States to share financial data for the purposes of terrorist finance tracking.
We are well aware of the threat terrorism poses to our own security as well as that of our partners across the Atlantic.
I do not need to remind you of all the terrorist attacks that have taken place on European soil throughout the last decade.
It is also obvious that our American partners represent a very important strategic ally, not only in the area of global security, but also economically and in other areas as well.
We must of course oppose terrorism but that must not be used as an excuse for governments to spy on their citizens.
The confidential information concerned belongs to the citizen, not to the European Union, the Parliament or indeed the nation state.
The agreement breaks UK data protection law, which bans the sharing of information without consent between overseas third parties.
The British Government has an opt-out clause on this, and I hope they overcome their usual spinelessness and oppose and vote against it in the same way I did. (PL) I endorsed the Alvaro report.
We have got it wrong because of a false equation in politics, whereby politicians think that their action needs to be in proportion to the extent of public outrage, rather than in proportion to the need to remedy an identified problem.
National parliaments have done the same thing on both sides of the Atlantic.
We have taken our time, we have put in sensible safeguards, and I think that we are enabling the security forces of the world to collaborate effectively in the fight against terror without an unacceptable price in terms of civic freedom.
If it did this kind of thing all the time, the rest of us would not have such a problem. (GA) Mr President, I voted against the report on the European External Action Service.
The Treaty of Lisbon provides more resources to strengthen the ammunition and military industry in Europe, and because of the same treaty it will be easier for the big European countries who are military powers to mount a military mission.
The united position of the European Parliament has taken maximum advantage of the new opportunities the Lisbon Treaty offers.
But, most importantly, we continue to support the practical implementation of an adequate geographical balance, with an EEAS staff comprising representatives from all 27 Member States.
I think it is important that the 2013 review should also cover this issue of equal representation. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of this report because I am convinced that the creation of the European External Action Service (EEAS) is a fundamental step, a historic step in the development and evolution of EU foreign policy.
I especially welcome the passage in the report which stresses the importance of ensuring greater policy coherence of the EU's external action as a whole through consultations between the EEAS and Member States' diplomatic services.
The irony will not be lost on UK taxpayers that the same government, asking departments to show the effects of 40% cuts in departmental spending, endorses a service estimated to cost EUR 900 million that British taxpayers neither need nor want.
Those of us who opposed the creation of the EEAS out of principle in 2008 still oppose it. (FI) Mr President, in the vote on establishing the Union's External Action Service I supported the amendments that focus on the inclusion of national parliaments in the supervision of the service.
Besides, I hope that the change to this role will also be reflected in the structure of the UN Security Council.
The European External Action Service offers the possibility of making European Union foreign policy more effective, more unified and strategically more coherent.
It is high time we proved that we can work in a coordinated way and that our influence in the world has not diminished.
The European External Action Service will represent the common position of the whole European Union.
This practice must become the priority of European Union foreign policy.
Adequate geographical representation must be an unambiguous fundamental principle in the formation of the Service.
From the earliest days of its activity, we must ensure professional and also proportional representation of Member States' diplomatic corps in this Service.
Thank you. (PL) Mr President, we have made a decision today, which will accelerate creation of the European External Action Service.
Firstly, foreign policy requires coordination with many other areas, and it is difficult to separate it from work in the area of, for example, development policy, trade policy, the operation of global financial institutions or economic affairs in a globalised world.
Fourthly, there is a lack of clearly defined competences in the area of forms of cooperation with the diplomatic services of Member States.
The EEAS should build on the values and identity of the European Union.
Lastly, I would like to say that at world level the Union should be better prepared for crisis management and civilian and military capabilities in the area... (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on the European External Action Service because I know that this is the result of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Reform Treaty.
That is why I hope that when people are chosen for various positions in the service, the whole of Europe might be fairly represented and that the European national parliaments can also have a role to play in it.
It is important that Catherine Ashton, now that she has a team, puts the core European values into action.
The European Union's diplomatic corps has already squeezed out the national services.
Baroness Ashton has about twice the salary of William Hague, the British Foreign Secretary, and she controls a budget about 20 times as large as that of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
In a way, this would not be quite so bad if the common foreign policy of the European Union were demonstrably superior to that which is being pursued by the Member States, but it is not.
I think we can run our own foreign policy to suit our own interests! (DE) Mr President, I voted against the Brok report for four reasons.
The second point is that the European Union ambassador will manage Commission funds in future.
That exposes these funds to numerous risks, and the safeguards against these risks are still extremely unclear.
The third point is the relinquishment of the rights of this Parliament in a Council regulation.
We are de facto codecision-makers in this procedure and yet we have allowed the Council regulation to anticipate our parliamentary rights.
The fourth point is the question of how we actually treat each other in Parliament.
For these reasons, I cannot vote in favour of this report. (RO) I voted differently to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) on the Kosovo resolution.
There are a number of basic issues in this resolution which I agree with and I think that we can all support.
Kosovo's inhabitants must enjoy a viable democracy, with a fair, impartial judicial system, and a society free of corruption where human rights and the rights of minorities in particular are respected.
In a nutshell, I would like to see lasting stability and economic development for the province of Kosovo as part of the Western Balkans' European prospects.
However, I am from a country which has not recognised Kosovo's independence.
I regret that the position of states which do not recognise Kosovo's independence was not given greater consideration. (ES) Mr President, as we have indicated on other occasions, no vote by the Spanish Socialist delegation may be interpreted as acceptance of the international recognition, implicit or explicit, of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence.
Likewise, with our vote against we would like to express our opposition to Parliament requesting that Member States of the European Union give international recognition to a territory whose secession is not supported by either a United Nations Security Council resolution or an agreement between the parties.
I would like to commend the fact that the European Parliament engages in discussion with the Commission and the Council on the very important issue of Kosovo's future.
The independence of Kosovo has already been recognised by 69 countries, including 22 EU Member States.
Therefore, if we want to anchor Kosovo in Europe and ensure regional stability in the Balkans, it is vital that we come up with a common approach towards the whole region and Kosovo in particular. (DE) Mr President, as rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) I would like to thank Mrs Lunacek for her excellent cooperation.
We have demanded - as was already the case in the draft produced by the committee - that the remaining five Member States recognise Kosovo.
That is the logical thing to do, because as long ago as 2005 and 2007, the European Parliament called for Kosovo to be recognised with a three-quarters majority.
We therefore need to bring clarity to the situation, because we need to make it clear that there will be no new negotiations on the status of Kosovo.
It seemed to me a very clear case, where more than 90%of people had voted in a referendum for self-government, that they should be granted it.
Albania is certainly a country which has made tangible progress in the context of the reform process.
However, it is also a country which needs to do more to get closer to EU norms and accession criteria.
More substantial efforts are needed to consolidate democracy and the rule of law and to ensure the country's sustainable development.
The political crisis following the June 2009 parliamentary elections is deplorable.
We must make clear to our Albanian partners that fully functioning representative institutions - parliament being the most important one - are the backbone of a consolidated democratic system and perhaps the most important political criterion for EU integration. (DE) Mr President, the ex-Communist Socialists in Albania are trying to destabilise the successful government there.
The Macedonian Government has democratic legitimacy.
I would like to extend my condolences to the families of the approximately 300 dead and the 2 000 who were injured or hospitalised.
It is important that the EU keeps pressure on the Kyrgyz authorities to conduct a credible, impartial and independent investigation into the violence. (LV) As a result of the ethnic aggression in southern Kyrgyzstan in June, hundreds of people have lost their lives, thousands have been injured, and tens of thousands have been forced to flee their homes.
This testifies to the need for the European Union to become more actively involved in the resolution of these processes in Central Asia.
Aid to Kyrgyzstan should be targeted at people and not at a specific government.
Talks must be held in parallel also with other states in the region, especially with Kyrgyzstan's neighbours Russia and China.
Those countries also have significant influence in this region.
The report calls on the government of Kyrgyzstan to carry out a credible and responsible investigation into the conflict, possibly in the presence of foreign observers.
That is why I support this report, since this investigation is desperately necessary.
Thank you. (SK) After almost thirty years of the European Union's active policy, especially in African states, the report submitted today talks about a growth in the number of people infected with HIV/AIDS.
The EU has invested billions of euros and the number of people infected is increasing.
I would therefore like to ask the European Commission to evaluate the effectiveness of money spent on the fight against HIV/AIDS. (RO) I preferred to abstain on this resolution as the deadline specified in Article 2 of the text, which also refers to Romania, may be too restrictive in the context of the negotiations in Geneva on the convention for banning certain types of conventional weapons.
I think that the UN mechanism provides an adequate multilateral framework for examining and negotiating an international legal instrument which will regulate the cluster munitions regime, at a time when 110 states are involved in negotiations. (DE) Mr President, the common agricultural policy is a success story.
I was therefore pleased to see the broad support in Parliament, as we have already achieved a great deal: firstly, a stable food supply for the population, secondly, maintenance and preservation of the cultural landscape and, thirdly, the renewal of important resources and protection of the environment and of the flora and fauna.
The Lyon report defines these tasks of the common European agricultural policy extremely well, and it explicitly acknowledges the two-pillar structure of the common agricultural policy.
We must now work together to provide suitable financial resources for these political tasks. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Lyon report because I agree with the rapporteur on the need to draw up a common agricultural policy that, firstly, continues the broad reform process that has taken place in recent years and, secondly, can provide concrete and innovative solutions to the numerous challenges to be faced in the coming years.
I believe, in fact, that the five fundamental elements described in the report - namely, food security, sustainability, agriculture across Europe, biodiversity and environmental protection, and, lastly, green growth - are an excellent starting point for guaranteeing a future common agricultural policy that takes account of ongoing, rapid development not just in Europe but also, and more specifically, worldwide. (DE) Mr President, with the Lyon report on the future of the European agricultural policy we have enabled a clear opinion to be formed and given the Commission clear and implementable standards.
With growing demands for a healthy environment, healthy food and foresight and sustainability in agricultural production, the European Union must also be prepared to subsidise and support these essential areas.
Europe has a duty to guarantee food security for its citizens.
As an area with a naturally favourable climate, Europe also has a responsibility to ensure that people world-wide are supplied with food.
However, in so doing the European Union needs to work better and in a more coherent way with the rest of the world.
There is one thing we need to bear in mind: if necessary, we could also import food, but not in a way that meets our conditions.
Our farmers need a fair wage. (PL) I endorsed this report.
However, I would like to say I am in favour of retaining partial intervention in agricultural markets in difficult situations.
Furthermore, the incomes of farming families amount to around 60% of those of families who support themselves by other means.
Although my country, Latvia, has now been a Member State of the European Union for a considerable time, our farmers receive approximately EUR 90 per hectare in subsidies, whereas Greek farmers are paid approximately EUR 550, and German and French farmers above EUR 300 per hectare.
The new policy must be framed fairly, with support of equal value, so as to eliminate destructive discrepancies and ensure fair competition throughout the European Union. (FI) Mr President, I have to say that I voted in favour of the Lyon report.
The Government in the UK and governments across Europe are saying we are all in this together.
There were a few points on which I voted differently from my group, because I believe that in certain situations we need market regulation and intervention.
They are needed to guarantee the food supply as well as sustainable development. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report, and there were two things about it that were particularly important to me.
If self-sufficiency within the EU is only 40% and the fish stocks on the global markets are at risk, then it is clear that here, too, there is a particularly good opportunity for aquaculture.
We ought to develop this economic sector, provide it with scientific support and, above all, structure it in a sustainable way, because there are jobs in aquaculture, too, as well as, ultimately, added value for our European Union. (LV) Thank you.
This report emphasises that the ecological and economic viability of European Union fisheries must be conserved, including non-industrial fishing of a constant volume in coastal waters, and of a type that would help to preserve the cultural identity of the relevant region, secure jobs in all stages of production and the supply of safe and high-quality produce.
This is a truly tragic situation, in which a traditional sector of the economy is being destroyed in a country with a 550 km coastline.
For this reason, I supported this report, which calls for the current situation to be changed. (GA) Mr President, I voted in favour of this fine report from Alain Cadec and I attended the debate in Parliament earlier but there was no time for the 'catch the eye', so I am taking this opportunity to say a few words.
Secondly, products coming into the European Union should be to the same standard - or maybe a higher one - as products originating from inside the European Union.
It has led to a depletion of fishing stocks and ever more fishermen are complaining about the lack of quota they have been given.
Written explanations of vote We voted against this disgraceful terror agreement, which provides personal data on every inhabitant of the EU to the US secret services within the framework of 'anti-terrorism collaboration'.
The representatives of capital in the European Parliament who voted for the 'SWIFT agreement' are unaware of its content, given that only 'trusted' MEPs were allowed to read the 'confidential' text, while the European Parliament has rejected it twice in the last six months.
In February 2010, the European Parliament refused to sign an EU/United States of America agreement on the transfer of financial data and requested the resumption of negotiations.
Today, the terms of this agreement have been considerably improved, in the interest of European citizens.
This time therefore I voted in favour of the agreement, particularly as it provides in the long term for the establishment of an entirely European data extraction system.
This agreement is therefore a temporary solution, enabling the European Union and the United States to combat terrorism, but cannot be considered definitive.
I decided to abstain on the Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America on the transfer of bank data by SWIFT for the purposes of combating terrorism.
After raising its voice, the European Parliament was able to obtain a number of guarantees which strengthen data protection and the rights of the people concerned.
Given the highly sensitive nature of the personal data transferred, I could not vote for this agreement.
In view of the necessary safeguards such as the possibility for European citizens to lodge an administrative appeal and receive the same treatment as US citizens, and the crackdown on the length of time in which information is stored, cooperation between Europe and the United States is, in this case, a proper tribute to the negative effects of globalisation.
in writing. - (NL) The delegation of the PvdA (Dutch Labour Party) to the European Parliament endorses this agreement, in the hope that in the foreseeable future we will be able to see an end to the mass transfer of data relating to European citizens.
The agreement states that Europe will develop its own system for the collection and sorting of bank details.
By keeping the data under our own supervision, we will be better placed to protect the rights of our citizens.
We have not had all our wishes granted, but what we have achieved is a guarantee that the US will not be able to nose into our data just like that.
In the meantime, the fight against terrorism will remain our overriding concern.
I voted for the Alvaro report concerning the new SWIFT agreement, which outlines conditions for the transfer of certain banking data stored by SWIFT at the US Treasury Department as part of the fight against terrorism.
This agreement over the transfer of banking data to the United States stipulates that the EU must develop a system to avoid any bulk transfer of data, which was not stipulated in the previous agreement.
I voted against the report on the transfer of bank details by the European Union to America, for the same reasons that I and my group opposed the previous attempt to impose this agreement, despite any 'technical' improvements made by the report.
The European Parliament should not approve the European Commission's agreement to hand over personal data to the US government and secret services on the pretext of the 'fight against terrorism'.
I oppose the Commission's insistence on transmitting information in general on financial transactions to the USA, because this infringes respect for personal data and this is information and material that will be used, without any fundamental control, by the US secret services for their own purposes.
in writing. - UKIP voted against the Alvaro report today because we do not want to give the EU greater power over personal data.
Confidential and private financial data belongs to the individual and not to the EU or the European Parliament.
If the UK is to enter into an agreement with the US it must be a fully reciprocal arrangement and not the almost one-way-traffic one that the EU has signed up to here.
This is a matter for national governments to decide, and not for the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) In February I voted against the agreement because it violated the principles of necessity and proportionality, as well as the integrity and security of European financial data.
This new agreement is better than the previous one.
The wording of Article 20 in the agreement diminishes the effectiveness of the recognition of various rights which have just been considered at the request of Parliament.
For all these reasons I decided to abstain from voting, as I still cannot conscientiously accept that this agreement has reached an acceptable level.
in writing. - (PT) The fight against terrorism must be a priority for the European Union.
Pro-active cooperation with the United States in this context, namely in terms of information and data sharing, is central to increasing efficiency in the fight against terrorism, to prevent future attacks and ensure the security of the European public.
I am therefore voting in favour of the measures proposed in this report.
The amendments made to this agreement not only reflect the majority of concerns expressed by the European Parliament at the time of its rejection on 11 February, but also express the need for proportionality in the treatment of this data, namely as regards their processing, storage and subsequent deletion.
I also emphasise the strengthened guarantees the new agreement gives to European citizens in terms of data protection, namely the right to appeal against judicial and administrative decisions, the right to transparency and communication of information to the citizens in question and the definition of the sphere of the data's application, restricted to activity directly related to terrorism or its financing.
Six months ago, the European Parliament acted as a defender of fundamental rights by rejecting the agreement between the EU and the US concerning the transfer and processing of banking data - the so-called 'SWIFT' agreement.
Thanks to the action of MPs and of our group in particular, a new version was drawn up.
More protection will therefore be afforded to the rights of individuals, whilst acknowledging the importance of tracking financial data in the fight against terrorism.
I voted in favour of the conclusion of the new Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America on the processing and transfer of Financial Messaging Data for the purposes of the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program, because I felt that the new proposal tabled by the Commission offered EU citizens increased assurances, in particular as regards data protection.
In fact I believe that any transfer of European personal data to a third country for security purposes must respect procedural safeguards and rights of defence as well as comply with applicable national and European data protection legislation.
Today I am delighted that our proposals for improvement have been taken into account, including the introduction of a similar exchange system at European level and the guarantee that follow-up monitoring will be entrusted to European officials who must be able to oppose data extraction on US soil.
in writing. - I supported the Agreement between the EU and the USA on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data from the EU to the USA for purposes of the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program.
Of particular importance for the future of combating terrorism whilst protecting the fundamental rights of citizens to protection of their personal data is Article 2 pertaining to the drafting of a legal and technical framework for an EU data extraction capability.
The Commission should carry out this task in an assiduous and timely fashion.
The addition to the agreement of Article 2 has the potential to greatly reduce the quantity of bulk data sent for analysis beyond the EU's borders.
Articles 15 and 16 ensure that citizens have strengthened access to redress and increased transparency.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on the SWIFT agreement on the transfer of bank data to the US, as I believe that the agreement negotiated with the Council and the US now includes safeguards relating to the protection of citizens' data, eliminating the possibility of transferring raw data to third countries.
This is an important agreement in the fight against terrorism, and it will ensure that the fundamental liberties of European citizens are protected.
in writing. - (PT) The phenomenon of terrorism and the growing impact that it has come to have on European society places essential values such as respect for individual privacy and the need to safeguard collective security under strain.
I hope that this agreement justifies the reasons for its conclusion and that the parties know how to properly interpret its provisions, so as to hinder and combat the financial activities of terrorists.
in writing. - (PT) The progress in this process is a positive demonstration of the benefits and advantages of institutional cooperation in successfully consolidating European integration.
in writing. - (PT) It is unacceptable that four months after Parliament rejected the SWIFT agreement, Parliament and the Council have reached an agreement with the US authorities to conclude an agreement which does not guarantee security or privacy, on the pretext of combating terrorism.
It is unfortunate that the majority in Parliament have now voted in favour of this agreement.
The implementation of this agreement, as we said previously, means maintaining flawed measures that are being taken as part of the so-called fight against terrorism with a view to the suppression of rights.
We support the need to fight all forms of criminality, but this must be done above all by focusing on the origin and prevention of these phenomena and not by placing the emphasis on vague security measures that infringe civil liberties and the fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens, further weakening the democracy in which we live.
in writing. - (DE) The fight against terrorism requires international cooperation governed by agreements.
Other serious shortcomings in this agreement include, for example, the inspection of bank data without judicial approval, the long retention period for data, something that is impermissible under German constitutional law, as well as an inadequate opportunity for people to defend themselves in court against the unfair use of data.
However, the European Union is not permitted to unduly curtail existing fundamental rights.
Today, after careful consideration, I voted in favour of the revised SWIFT agreement.
The compromise is certainly not perfect, but we must combine the demands of the fight against terrorism with respect for civil liberties.
This new version also brings improvements, in particular as regards the purpose of data transfer.
When it comes to an issue as sensitive as the protection of personal data, I would have liked even greater rigour, particularly on the following points: granting an independent authority - not Europol - responsibility for checking the compliance of applications or the effectiveness of the right to compensation for people whose rights have been violated.
It is with special attention that I have been following the negotiations between the EU and the US on the SWIFT agreement since its last rejection, thanks to the action led by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
Since February, the European Parliament, firmly applying its new powers, has been able to make significant progress and obtain additional guarantees: the 'twin track' approach backed by our group, regular reviews of the agreement, an initial evaluation in six months, a progress report after three years, rights to access and to make rectifications, the possibility to block the transfer of certain data, oversight of data extraction by a European authority in the US and so on.
After long and careful consideration, however, we are now able to vote in favour of the agreement: the Social Democrats have succeeded in providing for the establishment of permanent European monitoring in connection with the extraction of the data directly on the ground in the US Treasury Department - including the facility to stop the extraction of data.
in writing. - (SV) The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament has succeeded, together with the Spanish Presidency, in negotiating improvements to the agreement on the exchange of bank data with the United States.
The quantity of bank data that is transferred has been limited (there is to be no transfer of data for transactions within the EU) and personnel appointed by the EU shall examine and approve the transfers in real time.
Even though a certain amount of progress has been made in the negotiations, the fundamental problem of the bulk transfer of bank data still remains.
This means that innocent citizens' data will continue to be transferred to US authorities, which we Swedish Social Democrats find unacceptable.
For these reasons, we have chosen not to vote for the agreement with the US on the transfer of bank data.
in writing. - Given the concessions and provisions which the EU has secured regarding the SWIFT agreement on financial data sharing, I am now happy to support this agreement.
The continued monitoring of this agreement will be crucial, however, to ensure the terms remain acceptable to this Parliament and European citizens.
I voted in favour because I think that supporting the agreement negotiated between the European Commission and the United States is the right action to take and the sign of a great sense of responsibility.
Under the new agreement it will be possible to transfer a certain amount of bank data to the US authorities, provided that the transfer complies with the strict rules on personal data protection, which we MEPs are committed to monitoring.
The new agreement is a victory for all the European institutions, and for our European Parliament in particular.
Indeed, our requests for increased protection of European citizens' privacy have been granted, with Europeans being offered a dual guarantee: firstly, complete transparency as regards the way in which their data are accessed and used, and, secondly, proper appeal procedures to ensure that their privacy is protected.
I voted against this report.
It supports the possibility of transferring to the United States the personal data of each and every citizen, so vast is the scope stipulated in the agreement between the Council and the United States.
It does not call for any genuine guarantee of the protection of these data or opportunities for redress.
in writing. - (PT) The fight against terrorism is of concern to the EU, as it is to the entire democratic world.
The SWIFT agreement is a very powerful weapon in the fight against terrorism, as it gives access to privileged financial information regarding financial transfers between countries.
There is currently a great desire for cooperation on the part of the US, facilitating an agreement that efficiently protects transmitted data and where there is maximum possible reciprocity.
The European Parliament cannot allow the civil rights and freedoms of Europeans to be adversely affected under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - (DE) Data protection with the SWIFT agreement is simply a sham.
Furthermore, the idea that the Data Protection Commissioners, which have often shown themselves to be toothless, can obtain a block or a deletion in the USA is downright laughable.
in writing. - (DE) Under the guise of combating terrorism, the account data of honest European citizens are being transferred in bulk to the United States.
We cannot promise our citizens adequate data protection, because: - Sensitive data is stored wholesale, instead of only in individual cases where there are grounds for suspicion. - The data will be arbitrarily stored for a whole five years. - Compliance with data protection is intended to be guaranteed by Europol, even though this agency has an interest in the data itself.
Even the rapporteur admits that he is not totally satisfied.
It does not provide any real, effective data protection and should therefore be rejected.
The final agreement satisfies the majority of Parliament's requests, protecting both the security and the private lives of EU citizens and guaranteeing legally binding solutions to the problems under examination.
The agreement also marks a new phase in Parliament's powers, ensuring European democratic oversight of international agreements.
In addition to the improvements within the agreement, the Council and the Commission have made a legally binding commitment to set up the legal and technical framework allowing for the extraction of data on EU soil.
The establishment of a European extraction system represents a very important improvement, as the continued transfer of data in bulk is a departure from the principles underpinning EU legislation and practice.
The European Parliament, Commission and Council therefore have a duty to proceed immediately with the implementation of this commitment, so that Europe has even better tools to protect the security of its citizens in the immediate future.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour because I agree with the agreement reached and in order to fulfil my duty and responsibility of supporting the agreement negotiated between the EU and the US.
We are aware of the need for a balance between respect for individual privacy and the need to safeguard collective security, but the phenomenon of terrorism, with which many Europeans live every day, necessitates extraordinary measures.
We are legitimately fighting terrorism in new, ever more innovative ways, as the only way of ensuring the protection of European citizens' fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - The adoption of the new SWIFT Agreement by a majority in Parliament is a blow for the negotiations on a binding protection of fundamental rights in international security cooperation.
There were some improvements to the first draft, but there is still fundamental criticism of the massive data transfers without initial suspicion and the over-long data retention periods.
We Greens have therefore opposed the new agreement and, as a progressive force, aim for stronger privacy protection and the principle of the rule of law in transatlantic cooperation.
As Parliament's rapporteur for the comprehensive data protection agreement planned by Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding, I will personally work with the US administration and the US Congress on binding rules in this field.
It is therefore really sad to see that the European Parliament has weakened its influence on the United States by accepting the SWIFT agreement today.
A real change towards binding fundamental rights protection in the fight against terrorism requires greater courage and effort.
in writing. - (DE) I do not want my vote against the new agreement to be seen in any way as a 'No' to the fight against terrorism.
The Greek Communist Party MEPs voted against the joint motion for a resolution by the conservatives, liberals and social democrats to establish a European External Action Service, because it is based on the reactionary 'Treaty of Lisbon'.
It gives the EU the right to engage in military and civil intervention on the pretext of fighting terrorism, even inside the Member States.
The EEAS restricts the ethnocratic sovereign rights of the Member States even further, by allocating responsibilities to the EU in almost all the policy sectors of a state.
I supported the compromise negotiated by my colleagues Elmar Brok and Guy Verhofstadt with the High Representative, the Council and the European Commission, and thus the establishment of the European External Action Service.
in writing. - (LT) Negotiations on the establishment of a single independent EU body, as laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon, are coming to a close.
I hope that the Council will also keep to the agreement and the decision on the European External Action Service will be adopted at the end of July.
Furthermore, we must resolve the issue of responsibility and accountability both for matters concerning the use of EU budget money and for the allocation of powers.
The European Parliament will play an important role in the operation of the European External Action Service as it will be consulted prior to any EU mission being launched in third countries.
Romania is ready to offer the services of staff with the necessary expertise to work in the European External Action Service, right from the moment when it is set up.
My country has shown its commitment to European crisis management missions.
We have contributed more than 200 experts, police officers, military police officers, diplomats, magistrates and soldiers to most of the European Union's civilian and military missions.
The European External Action Service (EEAS) represents considerable progress in this respect.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament's resolution on the EEAS because, in order to succeed in her mission, the High Representative urgently needs to acquire a competent diplomatic arm.
My decision is based on the conclusions of the Madrid Conference of 21 June, where an institutional balance was found.
The Commission, the Council and Parliament will now be able to work together to establish an effective and operational European diplomatic service.
I am confident that subsequent negotiations on the establishment of the EEAS will respect this balance.
From the outset, some aspects of the creation of the European External Action Service have been unclear and controversial.
It may not be an imminent situation that I am expressing concern about, but it is still worth asking ourselves what impact the creation of a European service such as this will have in the medium to long term.
To put it clearly: if the idea is basically to emulate the US model, whereby foreign policy is managed directly and exclusively by the federal government over the heads of the 50 states, then it ought to be remembered that the US Government is elected by the people, and every four years its foreign policy is granted democratic legitimacy, which the European Commission, the European Council - and even the future European External Action Service - do not have.
Therefore, by voting against the Brok report I am expressing my preference for an intergovernmental European foreign policy, since relying on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) at European level would not guarantee the supranationality of the decisions taken in such a sensitive area.
European taxpayers are going to have greater control over the way in which the EU's financial resources are spent by the European External Action Service.
The European Union currently employs approximately 7 000 diplomats and civil servants who will ensure that the EU's objectives will take precedence over national and even intergovernmental objectives.
All employees of the European External Action Service will be politically accountable to the European Parliament, with its extended powers following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Parliament has scored a victory in that it has successfully imposed the notion that a large part of the European External Action Service's work should involve promoting human rights and safeguarding peace in the world.
This demonstrates that the European Union is consciously assuming its extremely important role as an exporter of basic human rights which, unfortunately, have been deliberately violated at the moment in many countries in the world.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on the organisation and functioning of the European External Action Service.
This is a very important step in strengthening Europe's role in the world and for coordinating the foreign relations policies of the 27 Member States.
In negotiations with the Council and the Commission, the European Parliament saw the Union dimension of the European External Action Service strengthened, thereby leading to an increased role for Parliament itself in the political and budgetary areas of this new entity.
I voted against the report on the European External Action Service, because it is being established using obscure procedures, with confused competences and a very clearly restricted role for the European Parliament, the only elected institution of the EU, which is limited solely to budgetary aspects.
Furthermore, I voted against the EEAS, because it is designed to be a tool for the further militarisation of the European Union, as it also includes military action, even in cases of humanitarian assistance and intervention.
The European Union should not link its foreign policy or policy of solidarity in the event of crisis to military action and militarised structures and mechanisms.
in writing. - I abstained on the vote on Amendment 80 because, while the case for national governments to scrutinise the control of EEAS must be guaranteed, this amendment also guaranteed the right of the European Parliament to do the same.
As Members of this House, we do not want a service that is the result of intergovernmental checks and balances, but a service that belongs to the Union.
A common foreign policy and a common economic policy are the necessary objectives of the European integration process.
However, the amendments introduced by the European Parliament reinforce the Commission's authority over the operational budget and, therefore, guarantee parliamentary oversight and a clear line of democratic accountability.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on the organisation and functioning of the European External Action Service (EEAS), as the agreement that has been reached reinforces the Community identity of the EEAS and its political and budgetary responsibility before Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) In November 2006, Parliament adopted a resolution which recognised the strategic importance of the European languages of universal communication - English, Spanish, Portuguese and French, in order of number of speakers - as a vehicle for communication and a means to solidarity, cooperation and economic investment.
The rules and practice governing languages in this service will reveal the extent of its commitment to external communication.
The European Union has much to gain from a competent and efficient EEAS, which is capable of being the EU's voice on the world stage and actively cooperating with the diplomatic services of Member States.
in writing. - (PT) The goal of the present decision is to establish the organisation and functioning of the European External Action Service (EEAS), a body functionally independent of the Union under the authority of the High Representative, created by Article 27(3) of the Treaty on European Union (TEU), as amended by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The European Parliament also has a role to play in the Union's foreign policy, namely in terms of its political control functions (set out in Article 14(1) of the TEU), as well as its legislative and budgetary functions assigned in the Treaties.
The High Representative must also regularly consult the European Parliament on the main aspects and fundamental decisions of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and should ensure that Parliament's positions are duly taken into account; the EEAS assists the High Representative in this task.
They should make specific provisions in terms of the access of Members of the European Parliament to confidential information in the sphere of the CFSP.
We voted against this report, which is the result of negotiations between the Council and the majority in Parliament on one of the crucial points in the Treaty of Lisbon and a keystone of federalism in the European Union, which now has a legal character, as advocated in the European Constitution.
It is noted that this service will involve more than 5 000 people in the EU embassies in various countries around the world.
To exacerbate the situation, we notice that proposals made by our group have not been adopted, in particular those which argue that the EU's military structures should not be part of the European External Action Service, and that there should not even be any institutional link between them.
The rejection of the proposal that we presented for the Council to cease development and abolish the military and civil-military structures under its jurisdiction, as well as cease funding for military and civil-military activity, is particularly worrying.
In spite of many complications related to reform of the EU treaties, today the Belgians have the opportunity of finalising their efforts and launching the European External Action Service - on the first anniversary of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009.
Firstly, a European Union diplomatic service, not an inter-governmental service, and this means an assurance that 60% of posts will be appointed by the European Union.
Secondly, political and budgetary supervision of the EEAS by Parliament, which means the ability to interview candidates for the posts of heads of delegation and to inspect the finances of the institution, as we do for the Commission and the Council.
Thirdly, an equal distribution of posts in terms of nationality and gender, and also a review of the composition of the service in 2013 in order to correct any imbalances.
I am pleased with the agreement reached between the three European institutions and Baroness Ashton on the establishment of the European External Action Service.
It is a balanced service in terms of its organisation and composition, and will be created to assist Baroness Ashton in her work as High Representative of the European Union.
Furthermore, it will have the effect of strengthening the European Parliament's political and budgetary control powers.
I sincerely hope that best use will be made of this service in the interests of the European Union.
The proposal made by Baroness Ashton is unacceptable.
This report has the slight merit of calling for all Member States to be represented among the European diplomatic staff at the beck and call of Baroness Ashton and the Commission.
in writing. - (PT) The adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon brought with it the creation of the European External Action Service (EEAS), thereby laying the foundations for a strong European diplomatic service.
I voted against the report on the European External Action Service (EEAS) because I believe that this body will institutionalise the militarisation of the European Union.
The EEAS will turn into a sui generis institution operating outside the basic mechanisms of control of any democratic system.
I believe that there is a need to ensure that the European Parliament, the only EU institution to be democratically elected, and national parliaments have not only budgetary control, but also political control over the EEAS.
Following the difficult debates on the European External Action Service held in recent weeks within the competent parliamentary committees and the various political groups, I would like to thank our colleague Mr Brok for his strong involvement in this matter.
Today's vote lays the foundations for a strong diplomatic service at European Union level.
in writing. - I decided to vote in favour of the report on the European External Action Service (EEAS) and fully support the setting-up of what is a key innovation of the Lisbon Treaty and a historic decision for the future of Europe.
Only seven months after the entry into force of the new treaty, together we managed to reach a consensus, securing the political and budgetary accountability of the new service to the European Parliament.
This report will ensure geographical balance as well as better coherence between the different aspects of the EEAS.
Such an agreement is clear evidence of the European Union's commitment to gathering its force and promoting its values in a more effective way.
This is a chance for the European Union but also for its Member States.
in writing. - (PT) As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which the European External Action Service (EEAS) was widely discussed and where I was able to express my opinions, and as a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I give my support and vote in favour of the present report.
The European Parliament presented a united position among political groups, who had as their common interest to make maximum use of the new competencies conferred by the Treaty of Lisbon, especially to this House, both in terms of political control and financial control of the EEAS.
I would stress the High Representative's commitment to create a team based on geographical balance, with representatives from all 27 Member States, banishing any kind of discrimination and equally promoting equality.
in writing. - (DE) As the Committee on Legal Affairs' rapporteur for the European External Action Service, I would like to point out that, including as a result of its amendments to Article 6 of the High Representative's proposal, the report that has been agreed on today has absolutely no binding effect for me as rapporteur or for the European Parliament as a whole in the discussions on the adaptation of the Staff Regulations.
in writing. - Parliament's approval paves the way for a more coherent and effective European foreign policy that better meets citizens' expectations.
We regret that Ms Ashton, the Commission and a number of national governments did not have the guts to embrace a more ambitious solution.
A strong human rights structure, safeguards for development policy and against renationalisation of Community policies, strengthened democratic scrutiny, a more transparent foreign affairs budget and gender balance in recruitment are cases in point.
in writing. - (DE) As always, it is difficult to accommodate and balance the various different interests and positions.
The following factors have yet to be clarified:  Staff - who and how many?  Equality - the staff should be selected on the basis of gender equality principles.  What powers will the EEAS have?  Budgetary supervision should lie with the European Parliament.  Something that is very important for taxpayers: how high are the costs?
This resolution attempts to prejudice the ruling by the International Court in The Hague on the legality of the secession of Kosovo.
I would like first of all to emphasise the deplorable lack of cohesion within the EU as to what political line to adopt with respect to this country, denounced by this resolution.
In effect, five Member States of the European Union have yet to recognise Kosovo's independence, which was nonetheless requested in 2008.
We therefore need, not only for the internal cohesion of the European Union, but also for its credibility in the eyes of the rest of the world, a common political stance, notably on points as basic as the issuing of visas.
It also seems to me that the European integration process for all the countries of this region is an important element in the region's stabilisation, a stabilisation that is in the interest of our community as a whole.
Where Kosovo is concerned, the prospect of joining the European Union is a powerful catalyst for the implementation of necessary reforms, notably the reforms pertaining to human rights, which have already been brought up and which we need to encourage.
I voted against the motion for a resolution on the European prospects of Kosovo, because it considers and treats it as an independent state.
Consequently, the resolution does not help to address the problem and does not help to consolidate stability and peace in the area.
The resolution also calls for an even stronger presence of EULEX in Kosovo.
in writing. - (PT) I voted against this resolution.
in writing. - (PT) Kosovo has still not received unanimous recognition by the Member States.
Kosovo still has a long way to go.
in writing. - (PT) The present resolution records Kosovo's declaration of independence on 17 February 2008, which was recognised by 69 countries, and encourages Member States to work together in their joint approach to Kosovo, bearing in mind Kosovo's planned accession to the EU.
My opinion is that, despite the very difficult legacy of the armed conflict, the prospect of joining the EU constitutes a powerful incentive for the necessary reforms in Kosovo, and I appeal for practical measures to be taken to make this prospect more tangible to its citizens, through the application of human rights and the strengthening of the rule of law.
in writing. - (PT) The simple fact that various EU Member States have still not recognised Kosovo's independence is enough to tell us that the content of this resolution is unacceptable.
Unfortunately, once again the majority in this Parliament is giving cover to an act that is illegal under international law.
As considered in the amendment tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left and rejected by the majority, the resumption of dialogue and negotiations in accordance with international law is the only path likely to lead to stability and lasting peace in the region.
In a similar vein to what I have said about the integration of Albania into the EU, I believe that we find ourselves at a crossroads: Europe must choose whether to limit itself to being a body based merely on geographical criteria or if it wants to become more organic, coherent and composed of states which, in their diversity, in any case demonstrate shared characteristics which are coherent with the European ideal.
The central fact that five Member States do not recognise the sovereignty of the country remains an obstacle which, at the moment, renders Kosovo's accession to Europe paradoxical.
For these reasons, I cannot support Mrs Lunacek's motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (CS) The draft resolution on the European integration process in the case of Kosovo is a document whose author clearly does not live in the real world and does not realise that Kosovo is not recognised as a member of the international community.
The effort to replace pressure with an improvement in the internal economic situation, to enable the coexistence of the original inhabitants, in other words Serbs, Gorani, Roma and other current ethnic groups with the majority Albanians, to prevent the bullying of minority inhabitants and to take a firm approach to the clans distributing drugs throughout Europe - these are the key issues which can contribute towards improving the situation in the area and strengthening cross-border cooperation.
The fight against corruption and organised crime remains a purely formal matter in this territory, and the same applies to decentralisation and civil service reform.
It has therefore had no real impact on the situation in the country so far.
This attack took place four days after the explosion in Mitrovica during a Serb demonstration.
Regional cooperation among the Western Balkan countries is key to their economic development, but in particular to establishing mutual respect and respect for the rule of law.
Last but not least, as regards the recognition of Kosovo's status, the message in the resolution we are debating ought to have made it clear that it does not reflect the position of all EU Member States.
I shall vote against this unacceptable and provocative text.
in writing. - (PT) The regional stability and the integration into the EU of countries of the western Balkans region has always been one of the EU's priorities.
For various reasons, this process has been slower for Kosovo, and its citizens are still unable to travel to EU countries without a visa.
I voted against this resolution on Kosovo because it encourages the five Member States that have not recognised the unilateral independence of Kosovo to do so.
in writing. - (ES) On behalf of the Spanish delegation within the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), we would like to state that the reasoning behind our vote on the resolution on the process relating to the European integration of Kosovo is that this resolution treats Kosovo as if it were an independent state in an entirely normal situation, without taking into account the fact that the status of this territory continues to be very controversial within the international community - an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice is also pending - and Kosovo has not been recognised by five Member States of the European Union, including Spain.
in writing. - The European Parliament today sent a clear signal that the future of independent Kosovo lies in EU integration.
This is a signal of encouragement for the government as well as the citizens of Kosovo.
In addition, it is a clear request to the five EU Member States which have not yet recognised Kosovo as a state to promptly do so in order to raise the effectiveness of our support.
A clear majority of MEPs rejected a further discussion on the question of Kosovo's status, bearing in mind that a statement from the International Court of Justice (ICJ) is due in July.
The Communist Party of Greece voted against the motion for a resolution, because it is against the accession of Albania to the EU, for the reasons for which it is against the accession and continuing membership of Greece in this imperialist international union.
It attempts an unprecedented open intervention in the internal affairs of the country and in the system of political opposition and calls for anti-democratic regulations in the operation of political parties and parliament.
The policy of the EU and of the bourgeois powers in Albania in terms of progress towards accession is exacerbating the development problems of the country, the position of the workers, the drain of capital and migratory flows and carries huge risks in terms of security in the area.
In voting for this draft resolution on the process of including Albania in the EU, I have chosen to back its two principle ideas.
On one hand, I lend my support to the idea of the long-term inclusion of this country, which is justified in particular by the great effort and progress already made.
The political crisis that followed the legislative elections of June 2009 in Albania showed all of us that this country can still fall prey to serious difficulties.
Its accession would cause further problems, in addition to the ones that the Union has already had to face and must continue to face today following a major enlargement that practically doubled the number of Member States.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this resolution, as it is my understanding that Albania should proceed along its path towards possible entry into the EU.
It should also function as a driving force for the implementation of important reforms in countries that are candidates or potential candidates for Union membership.
In the case of Albania, there is still a long way to go, as this report makes clear.
In this sense, I would like to underline and support the efforts of Prime Minister Sali Berisha to find an effective solution to the current political crisis and, at the same time, criticise the ignoble behaviour of the socialist opposition.
The pace at which each country progresses along its path to entry into the European Union is, therefore, determined by the candidate, or potential candidate country.
in writing. - (GA) Although I voted for this report, in my opinion the people of Albania should decide whether they wish to be part of the EU.
in writing. - (PT) Despite the resolution recognising the progress made by Albania in the reform process, it emphasises that significant additional efforts are needed to consolidate democracy and the rule of law and to ensure the country's sustainable economic development.
I believe that the prospect of entry into the European Union will give impetus to several reforms in the Western Balkans and play a constructive role in enhancing the region's capacity for peace, stability and conflict prevention, improving good neighbourly relations and addressing economic and social needs through sustainable development.
in writing. - (PT) Regional stability and the integration of countries in the Western Balkan region into the EU has always been a priority for the Union.
The efforts of these countries to enhance peace, stability and conflict prevention in the region should be emphasised, along with the strengthening of good neighbourly relations.
Albania is at an advanced stage in the integration process, and has already responded to the Commission's questionnaire for the preparation of an opinion regarding its request to join the European Union.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution on Albania because it confirms Parliament's support for Albania's European prospects, once the country has reached a level of political stability and reliability and the Copenhagen criteria are fully met.
It notes the progress made in the reform process, stressing that further substantial efforts are needed in terms of the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and of the sustainable development of the country.
However, my 'yes' should under no circumstances be construed as a direct or indirect call on the Albanian people to join the EU.
in writing. - While I have voted in favour of this report, it is my firm view that the people of Albania should decide whether or not they wish to join the EU.
in writing. - (LT) Both Albania and Kosovo have made progress implementing democratic reforms to strengthen the rule of law and to ensure sustainable development for the country.
I voted for the resolutions, because they also call on EU Member States to seek new means of interacting with these Balkan countries.
This resolution confirms the necessity of unblocking a sum greater than that already paid out to Kyrgyzstan specifically for the purpose of responding to the flash appeal launched by the United Nations, which aims to collect the USD 71 million required for emergency aid.
In addition, I think it is necessary to provide this country not only with emergency aid, but also with the tools required to stabilise its situation and ensure there is no repetition of this type of event.
Instruments should therefore be introduced to help re-establish security in Kyrgyzstan.
in writing. - (PT) Despite successes at an official political level, Kyrgyzstan remains steeped in instability and conflict, and there is no sign that the situation will soon become stable.
I believe that the European Union can adopt a stabilising role as a mediator and, in what is effectively a post-conflict situation, it should actively contribute to the difficult task of effective peacemaking and democratisation in a country that has Russia and China for neighbours.
This resolution expresses grave concern at the tragic, violent clashes which broke out in southern Kyrgyzstan recently and extends its condolences to the families of all the victims.
In relation to the disturbances and the clashes which took place on 11 June in southern Kyrgyzstan, and in particular in the cities of Osh and Jalal-Abad, during which around 300 people lost their lives and over 2 000 were wounded, I think the European Parliament, as a guardian of democracy, law and order and respect for human rights should react decisively to every such event, trying to prevent the processes of destabilisation such as currently are being seen in Kyrgyzstan.
Therefore, I would like to express my solidarity and support for the nation of Kyrgyzstan by supporting this resolution and voting for its adoption.
My intention in voting against the resolution is not to hinder the wide-ranging efforts to combat AIDS, but to oppose the method and the content that I mentioned.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the resolution on AIDS/HIV in view of the XVIII International Aids Conference, because efforts need to be intensified to establish a priority approach to HIV/AIDS for global public health, and to facilitate universal access to health care, education and employment for the people affected by this virus.
in writing. - (PT) Political groups should reach a broad consensus on a subject like this, and they should have refrained from seeking to use it in favour of this or that agenda.
The scourge of AIDS remains a serious humanitarian problem worldwide, and it therefore requires an integrated response at global level that mobilises the states, institutions, and societies of the various regions and continents.
in writing. - (PT) The resolution takes a wide-ranging approach to the problem of AIDS/HIV, supported by current data.
It is with force and conviction that I voted in favour of this resolution which requires the Member States of the European Union, on the eve of the next international AIDS conference in Vienna, to produce new laws to provide accessible and effective anti-HIV medicines, to encourage more awareness campaigns in developing countries, to increase financing for the research of new vaccines and microbicides and to fight against patient discrimination.
More than 33 million people are living with AIDS worldwide, with very limited access to antiretroviral drugs, and I hope that these few recommendations will be followed at next week's international conference.
Ahead of the next International AIDS Conference in Vienna in July, it seemed essential for us MEPs to send out a strong message to governments.
Consequently, I voted for this resolution, which calls on the Commission and the Council to step up their efforts to address HIV/AIDS as a global public health priority by putting human rights at the heart of prevention, treatment and support.
The number of new infections continues to outstrip the expansion of treatment, and two thirds of the people in need of treatment in 2009 were still not receiving it, which means that 10 million people in need did not have access to the necessary effective treatment.
I would also argue that the EU must be especially sensitive to the problem in sub-Saharan Africa, which, with 22.4 million people living with HIV/AIDS, remains the most heavily affected region.
The resolution also requires governments to fulfil their obligation to make a public health service available to all citizens.
The resolution also protects the sexual health and reproductive rights of those who are HIV positive.
in writing. - (DE) Up to the present day, HIV/AIDS continues to be a worldwide plague which it has barely been possible to deal with.
Developing countries in particular continue to have a high rate of new infections, and, as a result, a high death rate.
Since research in the area of HIV/Aids is essential, I voted for the resolution.
On the eve of the next international AIDS conference, which will take place in Vienna from 18-23 July 2010, I must give my support to the resolution adopted today by sending out a strong message to national governments.
For example, the Baltic States are the countries of the European Union that need to implement AIDS prevention policies most.
Thus I appeal to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights to gather more information on the situation of people with HIV/AIDS and to ensure that these sufferers still have the right to a full social, sexual and reproductive life.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am submitting this explanation of vote because, although I voted in favour of most of the paragraphs, I would stress that I abstained on paragraph 17.
in writing. - The joint resolution was adopted as negotiated with 400 votes in favour and 166 against, despite the PPE Group requesting split votes on sexual and reproductive rights, which it does every time.
It also shows that the PPE Group is divided on the issue.
I am happy with the result, especially because all our considerations related to sexual and reproductive rights are in.
HIV/AIDS infections are a global phenomenon and are nothing to do with either so-called risk groups or specific regions.
School education programmes on sexual and reproductive rights are crucial for HIV/AIDS prevention.
This is why I voted for adoption of the resolution on HIV/AIDS in the context of the XVIII International AIDS Conference.
For these reasons the ECR Group has decided to abstain on this resolution.
I supported the joint motion for a resolution, which invites all Member States to ratify this Convention to thereby allow the Union's adherence to it.
It is therefore essential to take the necessary measures so that the countries that have not yet ratified the Convention do so.
I signed and voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the entry into force of the Convention on Cluster Munitions and the role of the EU, not only because this is an issue of the highest importance, but also because Greece is, unfortunately, one of the countries which has not even signed this Convention.
I advocate Europe's commitment to the fight against the proliferation of weapons that kill indiscriminately, and I hope that the Member States and institutions of the EU will take coherent and determined action in this respect toward third countries.
It welcomes the actions of Member States which have signed and ratified the Convention on Cluster Munitions, but also recognises that some Member States, in view of their situation, will not be able to sign the Convention at this time.
in writing. - Unfortunately, the joint resolution's recitals contain a positive reference to the European Security Strategy (ESS) and the Common Security and Defence Policy, which I and my group reject.
The signing of the Convention on Cluster Munitions by 20 Member States is a good demonstration of the EU's commitment to the fight against the proliferation of weapons that kill indiscriminately.
We cannot forget that this type of weapon is the main cause of the deaths of thousands of civilians, killing indiscriminately, particularly children and other people who are innocent and unaware of the danger.
Unfortunately, the joint resolution contains positive references to the European Security Strategy and the Common Security and Defence Policy, which both my group and I reject.
I believe that the joint resolution may be considered an advance towards the banning of cluster bombs, and so I voted in favour.
The CCM (Convention on Cluster Munitions), which has been signed by 20 Member States, prohibits the use of these weapons and requires countries which have them in their arsenal to destroy them.
I voted against the resolution because I do not believe that the agreement can force countries to prohibit cluster munitions.
in writing. - With an overwhelming majority, the European Parliament has sent a strong signal against this perfidious threat to humans in war and crisis areas.
Thus, the European Parliament took the only possible position on this indiscriminate and inhumane weapon: a united 'no' to cluster munitions in Europe and throughout the world.
The European Parliament demands that all Member States and candidate countries which have not yet signed or ratified the international treaty to ban cluster munitions should do so as soon as possible, preferably by the end of the year.
in writing. - The ECR Group is very much in favour of all efforts to minimise the suffering of combatants and civilians and thereby voted in favour of this resolution.
We should therefore be clear that 'cluster munitions' as defined by the Convention on Cluster Munitions do not include munitions which self destruct or self deactivate: in other words, those that will be used by the responsible armed forces of our nations.
This should be the prerogative of sovereign nations, not an organisation such as the EU, although it is clear that there are those that seek, most regrettably, to turn the EU into a sovereign state.
The common agricultural policy (CAP) is one of the European Union's most important policies, and following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the reform of the CAP, like any new legislation on agriculture, cannot be approved without Parliament's consent.
The report on the future of the CAP after 2013 promotes the euro-unifying policy to uproot poor farmers from medium-sized farms and strengthens large capitalist agricultural production.
Twenty thousand jobs a year are lost in the agricultural sector, production is falling, agricultural income fell by 20% between 2000 and 2008 and 75% of farms have annual gross profits of between EUR 1 200 and EUR 9 600.
This report has correctly identified the key problems which the common agricultural policy will have to tackle from 2013 on, which is why I voted in favour of it.
The Lyon report aims to ensure and improve the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) after 2013, in keeping with the context of the economic crisis and the severe financial difficulties being faced by Member States, taxpayers, farmers and consumers.
However, as specified in this report, for which I have voted, it is not merely a matter of intensifying production.
Several amendments have been tabled in the plenary part-session.
I voted in particular in favour of Amendment 1, which insists on the high nutritional value of agricultural products.
However, I voted against Amendment 2, which called for the elimination of the two-pillar structure of the CAP.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this report.
The background to the reform of the common agricultural policy is one of economic crisis and serious financial difficulties facing Member States, taxpayers, farmers and consumers.
The new CAP will have to adapt to a changing European and global context and withstand many challenges.
European agriculture must ensure food security to its own consumers and contribute to feeding a steadily growing world population.
Moreover, the impact of climate change will close off the option of bringing large tracts of extra land into production and as a result, EU and global agriculture will have to produce more food with less land, less water and less energy.
in writing. - (NL) The own-initiative report by my fellow Member Mr Lyon is an important one.
The European Commission now knows the European Parliament's position as regards this dossier and will have to take it into due account when tabling new proposals.
As far as my party is concerned, the common agricultural policy (CAP) will continue to exist after 2013.
Food security, landscape, the environment, animal welfare, climate etc.
There are challenges that we have already mentioned and there will be new ones to contend with.
The Union now consists of a great number of Member States.
With the 2007-2013 programming period now over, the new common agricultural policy will have to rise to a very important challenge on behalf of our farmers: that of guaranteeing at least the same level of financial resources as in the past and distributing them equally between old and new Member States on the basis not only of the number of hectares, but also of other objective assessment criteria.
I voted in favour of the Lyon report because I fully support its aim of regionalising and maintaining aid in the form of coupled payments for vulnerable agriculture territories and sectors.
I also believe in the importance of the policy of promoting geographical indications, and in simplification, in compliance with EU standards on the part of third-country imports, and in the strengthening of the position of the various parties in the food chain.
This report gives agricultural policy a strategic role in terms of food security and sustainable development.
The development of green technologies in the field of agriculture has great potential for job creation and these technologies will make a decisive contribution to the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
In this report the European Parliament has set out its position on reforming and financing the common agricultural policy after 2013.
We would have liked to have seen the EU leading the way and stopping all payments of export subsidies by 2013 at the latest - irrespective of the actions of the other WTO trade partners.
We are at a crossroads in the definition of what the future reform of the common agricultural policy must be.
This is an issue that concerns Europeans, naturally, but also the citizens of the world.
The global organisation of agricultural markets needs to be rethought, taking into account the two main inspirations of a common agricultural policy: guaranteeing food safety and saving the lifeblood of small farmers and their families, both at home and in the world's poorest countries.
in writing. - I voted for this report but must stress my continued support depends on the Commission now taking account and securing a number of objectives: 1.
We must have a CAP budget which is capable of providing our farmers with a viable and secure income, and consumers with food security. 2.
in writing. - (LT) The European Parliament resolution on the common agricultural policy is an ambitious and targeted reform.
The most important thing is that it acknowledges the injustice done to farmers of the new Member States.
This resolution calls for us to meet the expectations of the 12 new EU Member States that joined after 2004 and to treat them fairly when distributing European Union money.
As the European Parliament's powers in this matter have increased since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, I hope that the Council does not revert to unequal direct payments for farmers of the old and new Member States and will not approve any additional general funding, which might damage fair competition in the single EU market.
The new CAP should ensure that farmers are provided with efficient and targeted support, which should benefit the wider society, especially consumers.
It draws attention to food security and the supply of high quality products at a reasonable price.
I voted in favour of the report on the future of the CAP post-2013 because it is necessary to strengthen CAP policies and ensure an adequate budget in order to respond to the challenges that European agriculture is facing, such as climate change, food security and quality and the competitiveness of the sector.
I voted against Amendment 69 of this proposal because it brings the global construction of the common agricultural policy (CAP) under threat and endangers the interests of Portuguese agriculture, as it proposes cancelling funding for structural measures without guaranteeing that these will be replaced using the changes to the first pillar.
Furthermore, such a proposal involves procedural difficulties in the future distribution of Union funds to farmers, while the current system, as it is, needs to be simplified, not made more complicated.
I would also stress the fact that the Portuguese state has been wasting hundreds of millions of euros in first pillar funds.
With the abolition of the second pillar and the transfer of some of the measures of the second to the first, many measures that are currently supported will cease to be so, particularly because of the obvious budgetary impossibility, and the result will be a weakening of the CAP.
In truth, we cannot understand what benefit the possible transfer of CAP funds to other policies could bring.
in writing. - (PT) The CAP has increased productivity, ensured security of supply and provided consumers with quality food at reasonable prices.
The new CAP will have to face new and urgent challenges, and should provide a framework for the future based on stability, predictability and flexibility in a time of crisis.
CAP reform should be reviewed in the context of the economic crisis and combating climate change, and maintaining its competitiveness in a global context.
It is expected that the agricultural sector will be able to make an important contribution to achieving the priorities of the new Europe 2020 strategy in terms of combating climate change, innovation and creation of new jobs through green growth, and continuing to ensure security of food supplies for European consumers by producing safe and high quality food.
However, I believe that the CAP should make its priority the production of the so-called first generation of public goods, and its guiding principle food sovereignty, so that Member States can be self-sufficient.
in writing. - (PT) Among other aspects, the profound changes which need to be made to the common agricultural policy (CAP) should include establishing the principle of the right to food and food sovereignty; prioritising food self-sufficiency and the ability of countries and regions to develop production to meet their national or regional food needs; and supporting activities which promote local production and respect the local environment, protect water and soil, increase the production of GMO-free food and promote the biodiversity of seeds for farmers and the diversity of species for domestic cattle.
This route is also noted in the report.
Despite advocating some important aspects, such as the rejection of renationalisation of the CAP, the rejection of a reduction in the overall budget and arguing for fairer redistribution of aid between countries and producers, the report maintains the view that was predominant in earlier reforms of the CAP - the total liberalisation of agricultural markets and the subjection of the CAP to the interests of EU negotiations in the WTO.
in writing. - (DA) The three members of the Danish Liberal Party today voted in favour of the report on the EU's agricultural policy after 2013.
The report focuses on modernising agriculture and making it more efficient, ensuring that improvements are made in relation to the environment and animal welfare, the contribution of agriculture to energy and climate policy as well as simpler rules for the agricultural sector.
In general, however, the report represents the consolidation and further development of the reforms of the EU's agricultural policy that have been carried out over the last few years.
in writing. - (DE) The new common agricultural policy (CAP) is intended to enter into force for European agriculture from 2014.
The Lyon report represents the prelude to the intensive negotiations over the next three years on the CAP after 2013.
With the first proposals in the Lyon report, the European Parliament sets a very clear direction: a clear commitment to the common agricultural policy with its two pillars, the direct payments and rural development, which also deserve to be safeguarded in the agricultural model after 2013.
Only the CAP, the funding for which in the next financial planning period will be maintained at at least the level of the 2013 budget, can guarantee a multifunctional agriculture throughout Europe and, with it, the supply of good quality food.
An appropriate model needs to be found for my country, Austria, in particular - one that safeguards the small structures and provides a viable balance for mountainous areas.
I believe that European agriculture needs a common policy that will remain as such to prevent inevitable disparities between Member States and to guarantee that the common agricultural policy (CAP) is financed entirely, and fairly, by the European budget.
I therefore voted against the renationalisation of the CAP, since the new policy will require sufficient funding if it is to be supported better in the light of the major challenges that this sector, which is crucial to the EU's food security, will have to face in the coming years.
Indeed, food security is a consumer right that must be safeguarded in the same way as the guarantee of 'second-generation' public goods such as the environment, regional development and animal welfare.
While I welcome this report, which is concerned about the future of farming, I do not share the view that the common agricultural policy has succeeded in achieving the objectives of ensuring a fair standard of living, stabilising markets, producing high-quality food at reasonable prices, developing economic activity in rural areas and guaranteeing our food security and food sovereignty.
The CAP after 2013 will remain wedged between the ultraliberal and internationalist market logic of the European Commission and a future 'green' CAP, in reality serving the neo-capitalists of ecological business.
This is a logic that sacrifices our rurality, but not for the good of poor countries or less-favoured or desertified areas in Europe, and which justifies renationalising the CAP as soon as possible.
in writing. - (RO) Agriculture is and will remain a strategic sector for the European Union economy, which will need to face up to the future challenges and guarantee independence and food security for Europeans through its common policy.
I voted in favour of this particularly important report because I believe that in the forthcoming programming period the common agricultural policy will require support from a consolidated, well-structured budget, commensurate with the challenges which lie ahead of us.
I think that we must establish close links between rural development policy and regional policy in order to ensure a degree of consistency with interventions of the same kind carried out in a particular region, thereby fostering territorial cohesion within the European Union as well.
This will enable us to achieve dynamic, multifunctional and sustainable agriculture in Europe.
I voted for the report on the common agricultural policy after 2013 because I feel that the European Parliament, endowed with new powers since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, is clearly demonstrating through this excellent report that it is assuming its new responsibilities.
Parliament is in favour of maintaining a common agricultural policy worthy of the name, including after 2013, with a budget that is at least equal to the current budget, in order to ensure high-quality production and security of supply in the 27 Member States.
My call for us to maintain certain market measures acting as a safety net for farmers and the prices of their products has also largely been supported.
We must be able to prevent overproduction crises, among others, in order to safeguard farming activity in all European regions.
I voted in favour of the Lyon report on the future of the CAP, and in particular for retaining the two pillars.
Today's vote in plenary on the Lyon report is very important and symbolic, since the MEPs are the first to take up a position and present their proposal for the CAP after 2013.
I have every confidence in Commissioner Ciolo to take account of the results of this vote in the proposals that will be presented by the European Commission in November.
The 2009 crisis showed the weaknesses of the system of measures to support agriculture.
The strategic plan for the post-2013 period must be proportionate to the importance of the sector, which employs around 30 million workers.
Agriculture must have a greater role in the EU 2020 strategy, and plans must be set out for intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Market instability grows with increasing measures to guarantee the safety and sustainability of products because this situation places European producers at a competitive disadvantage in relation to imports.
It will be difficult to ensure reasonable consumer prices and fair remuneration unless stricter rules to guarantee respect for the principle of European preference are introduced.
in writing. - The European Parliament has increased powers under the Lisbon Treaty, specifically in the area of agriculture policy.
With extra powers come responsibility, and the endorsement of the Lyon report on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) post 2013 shows the Parliament taking its responsibility seriously.
Market support measures are recognised as being an important part of the CAP.
I voted against Amendment 69 of this proposal because it brings the global construction of the common agricultural policy (CAP) under threat and endangers the interests of Portuguese agriculture, as it proposes cancelling funding for structural measures without guaranteeing that these will be replaced using the changes to the first pillar.
Furthermore, such a proposal involves procedural difficulties in the future distribution of Union funds to farmers, while the current system, as it is, needs to be simplified, not made more complicated.
I would also stress the fact that the Portuguese State has been wasting hundreds of millions of euros in first pillar funds.
With the abolition of the second pillar and the transfer of some of the measures of the second to the first, many measures that are currently supported will cease to be so, particularly because of the obvious budgetary impossibility, and the result will be a weakening of the CAP.
In truth, we cannot understand what benefit the possible transfer of CAP funds to other policies could bring.
The current common agricultural policy (CAP) provides assistance to a delocalised and speculative industrial system of production, which benefits large agricultural operations and not small producers.
The decoupling of assistance favours large landowners, and threatens small operations and family-run farms.
I believe that the agricultural sector needs to be considered as strategic within the European Union.
I support the structure and approach of the Lyon report.
However, they are also the subject of debate with regard to the budget to be allocated to the European Union, since the aim is to turn these very challenges into an opportunity for the agricultural sector to grow and for many European farmers to develop.
I welcome the adoption of the Lyon report by the European Parliament, which is a result of the excellent work of its rapporteur, aided by the shadow rapporteurs and the contributions of all the Members who submitted amendments, took part in the debate and committed to consensus building.
This report is a true reflection of the consensus possible between Members from all 27 Member States and various political families, which is particularly significant in itself, and even more so in the context of Parliament's new co-decision powers.
The report, which is the final result of several rounds of negotiations, adopts positions that will structure the future common agricultural policy (CAP) and that we consider fundamental: not reducing the budget, not renationalising the CAP, keeping the two pillars of the CAP, implementing a new system for apportioning grants, distinguishing between first- and second-generation public goods, not making it impossible for the Council to revoke the decision to abolish the milk quotas, the need for a safety net, increasing the transparency of the food chain, and the need to simplify the CAP.
I voted for this report, but I am giving this explanation of vote to stress that, in paragraph 44 on the management of the market, I voted against the first part of the paragraph proposed by the rapporteur and for the second part of it, which finally sets Parliament's decision out as favourable to Portugal's strategic interests.
We also have been able to introduce a clear distinction between different levels of competition in farming and marketing of food products and supported a clear statement to replace the current basis of historical yields and income by payments to farmers by an inclusion of the principle of 'public goods' in direct payment calculations.
in writing. - (CS) I have supported this report because I believe that the European Union's common agricultural policy must remain a common agricultural policy and that there should be no future renationalisation in this area.
It must be an important objective of the common agricultural policy to have equal conditions for farmers in the European Union, especially as far as direct payments are concerned.
I, on behalf of the EPLP, do not believe that this report goes anywhere near far enough in pushing for ambitious change.
in writing. - (PT) I supported this report as it has strategic relevance for countries like Portugal and the outermost European regions, and Parliament has made a massive effort to vote for it in this first year of its term.
Domestic agricultural production, which can greatly contribute to food security and trade with third countries, and reducing the trade deficits of Member States, is a key aspect of this policy.
Only 5% of EU inhabitants, including in Slovakia, are employed in agriculture, but we are all - 100% of us - consumers of agricultural products.
If the EU decides to continue even after 2013 with the former costly and ineffective policy of support for farmers, it should apply equal rules for everyone.
The fisheries sector represents a strategic resource within the EU where supplying the population is concerned, and it makes a significant contribution to local development, employment and the preservation of the cultural traditions of coastal communities.
If unfair competition is to be prevented and consumers safeguarded, imported products must comply with the same rules as EU products.
Therefore it is important to strengthen fair, transparent and sustainable trade in the sector, including as regards the need to introduce stringent certification and labelling criteria in relation to the quality and traceability of fishery and aquaculture products.
This own-initiative report, which focuses on the arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the EU, aims to protect the retention within the European Union of fishing and aquaculture sectors that are environmentally responsible over the long term and economically viable.
In essence, we are witnessing an increase in the importation of products originating from fishing and aquaculture at the expense of our community production.
Nonetheless, we realise, with our rapporteur in mind, that this must be carried out in keeping with sustainable management; for example, the quantity of fish caught must be limited for the purpose of managing our natural resources.
in writing. - (NL) The report by my fellow Member Mr Cadec comes at a good time.
Imports of fishery and aquaculture products have increased enormously, but that increase has been necessary.
Imports are necessary.
Large amounts of cheap imported fish are now posing a threat to European production, to both fisheries and fish farming.
I voted in favour of the report by Mr Cadec.
At such a historic time as this, I think that the issue of the arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products, or rather the problem of defining the conditions under which products from outside the EU are placed on the single market, is crucial.
Given that 60% of internal demand is now met by exports and that it is expected to increase significantly by 2030, Europe must provide answers to the questions and legitimate concerns of those operating in the sector.
This report is about the importing of fisheries and aquaculture products by the EU and the conditions under which it should take place.
Imported products must satisfy the same quality criteria as those produced in the EU.
As agriculture, fishing and aquaculture do not lend themselves to a pure free-trader approach, the EU's production is failing to meet European demand, given that currently 60% is covered by imported products.
Nevertheless, we have to make sure that future EU importation schemes make it possible to strike the right balance so that European production, already in a state of crisis, does not suffer unfair competition from third countries.
In the negotiations of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), fishery products should be considered 'sensitive products' in the same way as certain agricultural products, which would make it easier to maintain tariffs on imports originating from third countries.
At the same time, developing countries need to be able to develop their own fishing.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on the arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the EU in view of the future reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP), as I believe that issues relating to the import of fishery and aquaculture products to the EU should be given particular attention in the light of these ongoing reforms of the CFP.
According to the report, Europe currently imports 60% of the fish it consumes.
Without looking to European production to meet our demand (something that would be impossible both now and in the future), the truth is that the future reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP) cannot neglect to consider the issue of imports and seek a better solution, whether by increasing European production (not only by increasing the size of catches, but also by investment in aquaculture), whether by requiring that the imported fish complies with the same standards as that caught or produced in the EU, or whether by giving the consumer sufficient information about the origin of the fish.
in writing. - (PT) The EU market, which amounted to approximately 12 million tonnes and EUR 55 billion in 2007, is the world's largest market for fishery and aquaculture products, ahead of Japan and the United States.
In fact, its level of self-sufficiency is now less that 40% - in other words, the rate of dependence on imports is more than 60%.
in writing. - (PT) The work on the collection and systematisation of data that was made possible by this report must be valued, as it is helping us to build a current picture of a situation that is, in many respects, troubling, as this report rightly acknowledges.
The existence of EU countries with sustainable fisheries and aquaculture sectors is, from an economic, environmental and social standpoint, incompatible with the trade policy which is being conducted by the EU.
in writing. - (SV) I have today voted against the own-initiative report on arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the EU.
European fisheries cannot survive in the long term with protectionism and subsidies.
The problems in the EU fisheries and aquaculture sector should be solved in the context of the forthcoming review of the common fisheries policy.
I voted in favour of the report on the arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the EU with a view to the future reform of the CFP because I believe it is essential to have rules that are in line with the sector's requirements.
The European Union is the world's largest market for fishery products, and it is well known that EU production on its own cannot meet internal demand.
The priority is therefore to ensure that third-country imports meet the environmental, health, social and quality standards imposed by the EU, in order to prevent unfair competition from importing countries in the form of cheap, low-quality products.
I also support the idea of a strong commitment to research and development in the field of European aquaculture, since it represents only 2% of world production.
in writing. - (DE) For its survival, every state needs to maintain food self-sufficiency.
Therefore it is all the more important that there are clear rules here for importing, but also for food labelling and quality, and that we do not encourage competition with the domestic economy.
The measures proposed are a step in the right direction, and I have voted for the report.
The question of the arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the EU and in particular the conditions under which products originating outside the Union are admitted - alongside or in competition with European fishery and aquaculture products - is of major importance and any analysis of these sectors of the European economy must necessarily address it.
Regulation of this subject is essential in a context in which the level of European self-sufficiency is currently very low, with more than 60% of demand met by imports.
in writing. - This report was originally a defence of a protectionist stance with respect to imports, mostly in the belief that EU fishermen should have preferential access to the EU market, except when they cannot catch enough, in which case EU processors should be able to import.
Other amendments stressed the need to strengthen resource management and fisheries surveillance, and the need for responsible consumption, and noted that fish supplies come from a wild natural resource which is limited in quantity, which means that there is a limit to how much fish can be caught, exported and consumed.
The Community strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture was recently approved.
Of course, it is now time to regulate the issue of importing fishery and aquaculture products, as the EU is currently the largest market for these products in the world.
However, there is not enough production to meet the demand, so the EU is dependent on these imports.
It is therefore necessary to regulate the way in which these imports are carried out to ensure that the quality and good practice required of Community producers will also be required of third countries.
As I noted earlier, the issue of fisheries and aquaculture is one of the priorities set out by Madeira in the economic and social development plan currently in force, whereupon the region is in the process of promoting competitiveness in the sector through sustainable management of resources, diversification of fish production, evaluation of products in terms of quality, and training for those involved in fisheries with a view to increasing productivity.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
Today, I endorsed the Cadec report, which raises many important aspects of the protection of the EU market for aquaculture products in the context of reform of the common fisheries policy.
European producers offer products which are often of much higher quality in comparison with imported ones, but in an uneven fight they are condemned to lose.
