Madam President, Mr Almunia, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to congratulate you, Mr Almunia, and your offices.
The only thing which might explain it is that 2014 is exactly halfway between 2010 and 2018.
The Commission has closely analysed both the report and the amendments proposed for this debate with great interest, and we have taken note of the fact that the report specifically supports extending the deadline for closing uncompetitive mines to 2018.
When we prepared the proposal for a regulation and analysed this situation, we in the Commission were, of course, fully aware of the social and regional impact of the closure of coal mines in certain regions of the EU.
Therefore, in our proposal for a regulation, we allowed the Member States to grant additional operating aid, but on this occasion, for the specific purpose of facilitating the gradual closure of uncompetitive mines.
This gradual nature must be clearly set out in the closure plan, and the plan must also include a diminishing proportion of that aid during the transition period.
The importance of coal-fired power stations rests, among other things, on the fact that they are practically the only plants capable of responding immediately and flexibly through increased production when there is a sudden increase in demand for electricity, independently of other factors.
This proposal was well-founded and was based on economic, regional, social and energy policy grounds.
Therefore, we now need - at least as far as our statement is concerned - a broad majority vote, so that coal, which is one of the most important energy sources still available to us in Europe, remains competitive in future.
We want to encourage Mr Almunia to prompt the Commission to put forward a new proposal of 2018 and we want to amend two points in the report that has been adopted.
Only when Parliament makes a clear decision in favour of 2018 will we be able to carry out an appropriate evaluation of the social, political, energy policy, economic and regional grounds.
Because the reasons that were valid back in 2002 that are valid today, will still be valid in 2018.
We have requested a separate vote on Amendments 25 and 27, and we call on all colleagues in the two big groups to vote against those amendments and support the position of the Commission to phase out the support by 2014.
We must remember that aid for uncompetitive coal mines goes against these objectives.
Therefore, mines which today are unprofitable, will, perhaps, be profitable in the future.
Therefore, before we decide on political pressure in favour of abandoning coal in such cases, we should ensure diversification and also security of gas supply, because this is, today, the only real alternative for the energy sector in countries which use coal for this purpose.
We can protect many European regions from major economic and social damage and, therefore, we must vote in favour of these regulations. (SV) Madam President, when it comes to State aid for the coal industry, my view is that we should do everything we can to make the European economy as competitive as possible, and we should do this in many different areas.
Against this background, I believe that we should support the Commission's proposal, and we will vote in favour of it. (DE) Madam President, Mr Almunia, we need to bite the bullet now, rather than prolonging the agony.
We must not forget that Europe's mining sector provides approximately 100 000 jobs, 42 000 in coal mining and 55 000 in related sectors, and that certain regions in Europe are totally dependent economically on this sector.
On the other hand, the deadline of 2020 specifically proposed by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy did not receive sufficient positive feedback.
A transition period is required which will allow these mines, and those mines which could become competitive, to become gradually more competitive, in order to ensure access to European coal and avoid an adverse socio-economic impact. (CS) Madam President, in my opinion, there is no dispute over the fact that subsidies to particular segments of the economy distort and destroy economic competition, and that State aid is therefore damaging to the healthy functioning of the market, not only in the short term but also in the long term.
In today's vote, the ECR therefore supports all proposals that will result in individual Member States having sufficient time to implement the extensive retraining of workers, to organise the removal and elimination of environmental burdens associated with coal extraction, and also to be able to absorb all of the social upheavals in time. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, it is a shame that Parliament has a right to nothing more than consultation when what we are talking about is the future of 180 000 European families and the European Union's indigenous energy source par excellence.
Subsidies are not a general route to competitiveness, but making European coal competitive through subsidies is strategically necessary, first of all, because 60% of European energy is imported, and out of the remaining 40%, a large proportion is nuclear - which the majority of this House does not support - and secondly, because of price increases: the European coal price is moving closer and closer to the international coal price.
The coal mining sector provides 280 000 jobs in the European Union, especially in mono-industry areas.
Unless State aid is granted, production will fall by 20%, resulting in 100 000 lost jobs.
State aid for the hard coal industry is an absolute necessity for uncompetitive mines.
The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy voted for 2020 and we will support the compromise which the rapporteur, Mr Rapkay, has successfully reached, along with fellow Members in other political groups.
However, I think that Member States should also present plans for the economic and social development of mining regions, which are often mono-industry regions.
The aim of these development plans should be job creation and investment in energy efficiency and energy production from renewable sources.
I would like to introduce another argument.
In some countries, including Romania, in years affected by drought - which have been growing in number - there is a fall in the production of hydroelectric and nuclear energy.
The only resource which my country and other countries have had at their immediate disposal for increasing energy production has been coal.
As a result, I am going to support the amendment which proposes a longer transition period for discontinuing the subsidies granted to unprofitable coal mines. (RO) Madam President, although subsidised coal accounts for only a small proportion of the European Union's electricity production, the immediate and simultaneous closure of hard coal mines will have a considerable social impact in certain areas of Europe.
I also think that it must be up to the relevant Member State to determine the level of reduction in State aid after a certain period and Member States must not have minimum limits imposed on them. (DE) Madam President, Mr Almunia, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few things to our Liberal friends and to Mrs in 't Veld in particular.
Therefore, in the amendments to the Rapkay report, we ask for an indefinite extension to the aid for costs related to CO2 capture and to any other technology that enables coal to be burned more cleanly. (CS) Madam President, this measure confirms the old saying that a financier has a hold on the state like a rope has a hold on a man who has been hung.
I would like to say three things.
Thirdly, we should prevent any interference from lobbyists.
Under these circumstances, I do not believe that we - in this Parliament - need to contribute to the situation by adding a further 100 000 unemployed to those we currently have in the European Union.
I believe that our approach in this new strategy must not be to increase our dependency on a single hydrocarbon source, but to increase our economic independence.
In this respect, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Rapkay. (PL) Madam President, in view of the specific nature of the regulation which we are debating, today, let us not forget that there are Member States of the European Union whose energy production is based mainly on coal.
The role of coal as a fuel in the energy balance will continue to be crucial for the energy sector by stabilising Europe's energy security.
This is due to the fact that mining and, in particular, coal mining is going on all over the world, but unfortunately, the safety standards elsewhere are very low when compared with those in German or other European pits.
I am afraid that the mining machinery industry will follow mining production and move out of Europe.
Madam President, I repeat what I said in my opening speech: the Commission and I are taking very good note of all the arguments that have been put forward here by all of you, and we will take very good note of Parliament's position once Mr Rapkay's report is adopted.
However, it also depends on whether the Commission hears the arguments put forward in the Council and here in Parliament.
In 1990, more than 200 000 people were working in the mining industry in Germany.
There have been a number of pit closures between 2002 and the present day during the period of this regulation, which is still in force.
I would like to say that the Union's economic problems during the crisis are not only the result of dishonest global financial speculations, but there is also a lack of a sound, uniform and fair industrial policy in the Union itself, particularly a fuel and energy policy.
It is important that we spend subsidies to facilitate mine closures properly: to ensure that the employees concerned are retrained and redeployed in other sectors of the labour market.
We must also think of the increasing energy demands of the European Union, as well as the role of coal in energy security.
