Unfortunately, there should be no illusions that the report will change the conditions of Tamils in Sri Lanka.
On 18 May, there will be protests around the world organised by many groups, including the Tamil Solidarity Campaign, to mark the second anniversary of this bloody war.
Therefore, the Sri Lankan Government should immediately start investigations on the violations of international humanitarian and human rights law.
The ALDE Group applauds UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's report and initiative on Sri Lanka.
author. - Mr President, on 23 May 2009, the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, and the President of Sri Lanka, Rajapaksa, signed a joint statement in which Sri Lanka agreed to guarantee accountability for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity during the war which ended in May 2009.
Therefore, the international community - specifically the European Union and the UN Security Council - must offer their unconditional support for the report's recommendations and take urgent steps towards the creation of an independent international mechanism to monitor the Sri Lankan Government's actions, ensure that crimes committed on both sides are investigated, and seek justice for the Sri Lankan people.
Mr President, I wish to support this resolution on human rights violations and war crimes committed in Sri Lanka.
The clashes in May and June 2009 gave rise to war crimes and crimes against humanity, and thousands of civilians lost their lives.
If such were the intent of the Sri Lankan Government, how come they have just released 200 000 Tamils who were prisoners?
It is absurd to accuse the Sri Lankan Government of genocide.
They know Sri Lanka and they know what is going on.
The reports from non-governmental organisations are damning.
Thousands of civilians were killed between January and May 2009.
We can only welcome the report of 11 April.
Mr President, the long-running military conflict between the government forces and the armed groups of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, which has had very cruel consequences for the civilian population living in the conflict zones, came to an end in 2009.
After the end of the war, the Sri Lankan President, Mahinda Rajapaksa, promised to investigate all suspected violations of military law and international humanitarian law during the military conflict.
The UN report published in April this year states that both sides in the conflict carried out military operations without taking steps to protect the rights and lives of civilians.
What we are discussing today is a report by the Secretary-General's panel of experts on accountability in Sri Lanka.
The UN Panel of Experts clearly indicated that both the government of Sri Lanka and the Tamil rebels committed serious violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law, possibly amounting in some cases to war crimes and crimes against humanity.
So I fully support the immediate establishment of an international justice mechanism as proposed by the UN report. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, it is apparent from the UN report that in the final bloody months of the civil war in Sri Lanka, which went on for 25 years, thousands of civilians died in artillery fire from government troops.
The UN also said that Tamil rebels had used more than 300 000 civilians as human shields and shot civilians trying to escape.
Both sides therefore seriously contravened human rights and international laws in a war situation.
Parliament's resolution is wellbalanced in its wording and will encourage the parties to achieve reconciliation and build peace. (RO) Mr President, the conclusions from the UN report published on 25 April 2011 level serious accusations concerning the numerous violations of human rights and norms of international law, both by the Sri Lankan Government and by the rebel forces defeated in the civil conflict which lasted well over 28 years.
Obviously, we also have to admit that the civilian population is a victim in this kind of conflict, and the UN panel has shown clearly that there are responsibilities on both sides: mainly that of the government but also that of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, and both need to be investigated.
What we are asking for is an independent commission to investigate these allegations, identified by the UN panel, of war crimes and crimes against humanity.
The approach taken in the report seems to be undermining the efforts now undertaken by the government of Sri Lanka to promote truth and understanding, not least through the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission, and the government actually having released more than 200 000 detained Tamil prisoners.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, on 25 April 2011, the United Nations made public the advisory report of the panel of experts appointed by the UN Secretary-General on accountability in relation to the armed conflict in Sri Lanka.
The panel also makes a series of recommendations to the UN Secretary-General and to the government of Sri Lanka which, in the panel's words, will serve as the framework for an ongoing and constructive engagement between the Secretary-General and the government of Sri Lanka on accountability.
However, there are still 75 000 refugees who continue to lead difficult lives in camps in Tamil Nadu, India.
The United Nations' experts' report, made public on 25 April, found the allegations of violations of international humanitarian law and human rights credible.
