However, I want to express my deep concern about the fact that fraudulent activities increased in the new Member States, especially Romania and Bulgaria.
In addition, I would like once again to urge the European governments to provide the EIB with a more significant lending capacity to our neighbours, especially those in the east, who are highly in need of loans and investments, and who are also suffering from the effects of the crisis.
Thirdly, European Union assistance to Nigeria should address the most important problems, the most sensitive issues in order to achieve at least some visible progress in this country. (NL) Mr President, the latest news I received this week about Christians in Jos sounds extremely worrying.
In recent weeks, too, our co-religionists - Christians, that is - have been found murdered in various places in this Nigerian city.
For example, on Saturday 24 April, members of a gang of Muslim youths stabbed to death two journalists working for a Christian monthly.
Hence his appeal to the international community - and thus also to the European institutions - to recognise Islamic extremism as a key explanation for the explosive situation in Nigeria, particularly in the case of Jos, which lies at the crossroads between the Muslim north and the Christian south.
I too oppose single-cause explanations, but this oversimplification on the part of the EU, of this House, does not help the Nigerian Christians, whose lives are poised between hope and fear these days, in the slightest.
That is my criticism, and that is why I abstained. - Mr President, I think it is appalling that a country with such massive oil reserves as Nigeria should be involved in such mass atrocities, but at the same time, taking our cue from the Vice President of the United States, the solution has to be in dialogue, dialogue, dialogue, allied with education, education, education, so that peace can be brought to the country.
I appreciated Joe Biden referring to the line by the Irish poet William Butler Yeats: 'a terrible beauty is born'.
The European Union has an important role to play in that - and, indeed, in the discussion today - and in the vote we have set out a marker.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (FR) I voted for this recommendation since it highlights the innovative, constructive and democratic character of the convening of Conventions for the revision of the Treaties (for example, the Convention held from 1999-2000, which drafted the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and the Convention held from 2002-2003, which prepared the draft treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe), while recognising the altogether exceptional character of the revision of the Treaties currently made necessary by the implementation of transitional measures concerning the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Therefore, following the example of the rapporteur, Mr Méndez de Vigo, I think it is good that the European Parliament 'approved the European Council's proposal to amend Protocol No 36 by means of an Intergovernmental Conference, without convening a Convention'.
in writing. - (GA) Pat the Cope Gallagher MEP and Liam Aylward MEP have drawn attention to the fact that only Ireland and Malta use the system of proportional representation to elect Members of the European Parliament.
in writing. - This vote concerned the possibility of convening a Convention for the revision of the Treaties in view of transitional measures to do with the composition of the European Parliament.
When taking into consideration various factors such as the Convention held from 22 February 2002 to 18 June 2003, as well as that which drafted the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, I am in agreement with the view of the rapporteur to support the Council's proposal to amend Protocol No 36 through holding an intergovernmental conference rather than convening a convention.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has changed the composition of the European Parliament, which is going from having 736 Members to having 751.
There will be 18 new Members from 12 Member States.
As it is not possible to curtail an MEP's mandate during a term, this means that Parliament will temporarily have 754 Members, making it necessary to change the Treaty so as to temporarily lift the limit of 751 Members.
I believe that it would have been preferable to apply this new composition in the 2014 elections and not in the current parliamentary term, but I recognise that there is a broad consensus on putting these changes into effect immediately.
The sin of Europe's system of Conventions, recalling the French and US experiences, was presuming to have a legitimacy that it still did not, in fact, have at that time.
I voted for the decision not to convene a Convention for the revision of the Treaties with regard to the transitional measures concerning the composition of the European Parliament.
I agree that the Council should amend Protocol No 36 within the framework of an Intergovernmental Conference, without convening a Convention.
I agree completely with the author of the report, and would like once again to recall that in the decided majority of Member States new Members of Parliament have already been appointed in accordance with current regulations.
However, as the action is limited in scope and restricted to the transitional amendment, I relied on the principle of proportionality and supported the transitional solution nominated by 479 colleagues: that is, to give the right of decision to an Intergovernmental Conference rather than convening a Convention.
in writing. - I voted against this report because I am against not convening a Convention for the revision of Treaties.
The decision not to convene a Convention was one of the most difficult decisions related to the introduction of the 18 new Members to Parliament.
We have made this decision precisely out of respect for this instrument, whose objective is to increase the legitimacy of decisions concerning fundamental EU law.
We have a problem with the appointment of the 18 new Members, because some Member States have not used the appropriate procedure.
A transitional measure must in fact be found to reconcile respect for the Treaty of Lisbon with Article 5 of the 1976 Act concerning the election of the Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage.
It is therefore necessary to increase the number of MEPs to 754 for the rest of the 2009-2014 parliamentary term.
I voted against, and did so for one reason which in my opinion is crucially important: during the European elections of June 2009, most of the Member States believed it very probable that the Treaty of Lisbon would be ratified imminently.
This is not the case with France, which did not make any arrangements to ensure a smooth transition from 72 to 74 MEPs.
The solution found in the end - the appointment of two members of the National Assembly - is unacceptable.
Since 1979, MEPs have been elected by direct universal suffrage by European citizens, and not appointed by national assemblies.
The fact that Parliament has accepted the French compromise sets a worrying precedent in terms of its failure to comply with the Treaties.
in writing. - We welcome measures to allow the 18 additional Members to take up their seats in the European Parliament.
That is wrong, and it is why our delegation has voted against this report.
Furthermore, we French socialists did not think that the other 16 MEPs should have to pay the price for this complete lack of preparation on the part of France, and in the end we therefore advocated the launch of an IGC (Intergovernmental Conference) that will enable these elected MEPs - firstly as observers - to come and play their role as representatives of the European citizens who elected them with this sole aim in mind.
The last European elections (2009) took place before the Treaty of Lisbon had entered into force, so Parliament's composition was still the same as that established by the Treaty of Nice (736 Members).
The European Council agreed with the draft composition proposed by Parliament in 2007, increasing the number from 750 to 751.
It will, therefore, be necessary to regulate how the 18 new Members (shared between 12 Member States) will be elected.
As it is not possible to curtail an MEP's mandate during a term, this means that Parliament will temporarily have 754 Members.
However, as the 2009 elections took place before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, only 736 MEPs were elected.
The Democratic Movement delegation did not vote in favour of this text for two reasons.
This accelerated procedure 'violates' not only the spirit, but also the letter, of the Treaties.
The appointment of two members of the French national parliament among the 18 additional MEPs constitutes a serious attack on the primary legislation, which stipulates that MEPs must be elected by direct universal suffrage and not appointed by their national parliaments.
I voted for this report because it argues that the 18 additional MEPs, from 12 Member States, can take their seats after being elected.
It is regrettable that the Council did not adopt the necessary measures in time to allow these Members to take their seats immediately after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The fact that the Treaty of Lisbon did not enter into force in time to be immediately applicable to the elections for the 2009-2014 term of the European Parliament led to a problem that has ended up, I believe, being resolved sensibly and in a way that reflects the inevitable difficulties of transition periods.
An increase in the total number of MEPs by 15 (from the 736 stipulated in the Treaty of Nice to 751), with 18 additional seats to be distributed among 12 Member States, has been adopted.
The Treaty of Lisbon had not entered into force before the 2009 European elections, so the latter were held in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Nice, meaning that the European Parliament currently has 736 Members rather than 751.
On the other hand, the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon means that the 18 additional MEPs from the 12 Member States concerned can legitimately take their seats.
It is not possible to curtail an MEP's mandate during a parliamentary term or, therefore, to reduce the current number of MEPs in the German delegation by three.
I therefore take the view that the amendment of Protocol No 36 requested by the European Council stems directly from the new provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, and is a valid solution that will enable all those Member States entitled to additional seats to designate the MEPs concerned.
These 18 MEPs must take up their seats in Parliament at the same time in order not to upset the balance of nationalities in the House.
As we have been asserting and as can be seen from this report, the Treaty of Lisbon not only implements neoliberal, militarist and federalist policies but is an instrument full of ambiguities and contradictions, such as those expressed in Protocol (No 36) on provisions concerning the composition of the European Parliament.
This report has shown the attempt by some MEPs to entrench the EU's federalist trajectory by invoking a democratic legitimacy that the Treaty does not have.
Consequently, today, France is the only one of the 27 that intends to appoint two new MEPs by the indirect means of a decision by a national parliament of which the voting system is thoroughly unjust.
This issue demonstrates just how necessary it is for us to provide ourselves in future with a uniform method of appointing MEPs by direct universal suffrage, with this reform to be carried out by means of a convention.
in writing. - I voted against this report because of our main amendment, in which we claimed that Members of the European Parliament should be elected by direct universal suffrage.
I have cast my vote, which is categorically in favour of the two reports drafted by Mr Méndez de Vigo.
From this perspective, I have endorsed the idea of voting against paragraph 5, introduced by an amendment of mine tabled in committee, to emphasise that the appointment of the 18 new Members will have to comply as far as possible with the provisions of the 1976 Electoral Act, which requires that Members be elected directly by the European citizens.
The hope is that the Commission and the Council will work consistently with one another on these guidelines, and, above all, will do so with a sense of urgency which, unfortunately, has been inexcusably lacking in other, even recent, cases.
As co-author of the European Parliament motion for a resolution on Kyrgyzstan, I want to express my thanks to fellow Members who voted in favour of this document, today.
I think, therefore, that the international aid programme should be brought into being as quickly as possible, and that the EU should assume the role of leader in the programme.
The situation that is currently being experienced in Kyrgyzstan is concerning, all the more so because it is country situated in a very important part of Central Asia, with a geostrategic location near Afghanistan and adjacent to the Ferghana Valley.
European Parliament motion for a resolution No of 6 May 2010 on the situation in Kyrgyzstan is the common voice of Europe directed to Kyrgyzstan and its authorities.
The motion for a resolution on Kyrgyzstan is an important signal from the European Union and the whole of Europe.
The European Parliament must be an institution which supports all prospects for democracy and does not accept any deviations from that route.
The only measures which we can and will support are democratic measures, because they are the foundation of the European Union.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution, together with the big majority, including the two oral amendments made during the vote.
in writing. - (ET) The events that took place in Kyrgyzstan at the start of April, already a month ago, have had a serious impact both upon the country's internal governmental situation and upon international relations.
Thanks to this, Russia has increased its influence in Kyrgyzstan, both militarily and also economically, which was to be expected given the previous economic ties between these two countries.
At the same time, Russia has promised to give economic aid both through direct financial support and also by selling gas and oil products at a favourable price.
Today's report largely draws attention to the fact that the European Union and the UN must help ensure that a democratic government is elected and that human rights violations come to an end in this country.
It is certainly true that there is a desire to reduce corruption both in the public sector and in the justice system, which will perhaps make it necessary to reform the public sector and guarantee the independence of the justice system.
Yet this is all directly connected with the country's economic situation, and therefore cooperation is necessary between the EU, the UN and Russia, because otherwise Kyrgyzstan will not be given priority; instead, all the 'great powers' will attempt to use this situation to their own ends.
Therefore, I support this resolution, which calls on all parties to cooperate to ensure the observance of human rights and the development of democracy, as well as the reform of the public sector and the independence of the justice system.
I welcome the recent communication on clean and efficient vehicles.
We must not, however, forget that Europe is currently the world leader in the automotive sector, and we cannot put this competitive advantage at risk.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Member States to develop the conditions necessary to create an internal market in electric vehicles.
I would also warn of the need to harmonise the standards for batteries and compatible charge points in the various Member States.
I call for greater investment in research and development into smart grids and battery technology, in order to make more efficient use of primary materials.
Electric vehicles are a significant innovation with high market potential, particularly in the long term, as they are responsible for reduced emissions of CO2 and other pollutants, and for improved energy efficiency and the promotion of innovation based on technological leadership.
Given the above, there must be a European strategy for electric vehicles, supporting industry in developing clean and viable technology and supporting the creation of a single market in electric vehicles.
The challenges posed by climate change, CO2 emissions and other pollutants, and the volatility of fuel prices have created a positive climate for the worldwide development of electric vehicles.
I therefore welcome the priority given to the development of electric vehicles by the Spanish Presidency in the context of the fight against climate change, and the Commission's Communication on a European strategy on clean and energy-efficient vehicles of 27 April 2010.
I believe that the necessary conditions for the existence of a single electric vehicle market must be created, while at the same time guaranteeing efficient coordination of policies at EU level, in order to avoid negative impacts, particularly on employment.
This coordination also encourages compatibility and interoperability.
We believe the development of electric cars to be necessary as an alternative to vehicles that use fossil fuels.
Nevertheless, the limitations and problems that are still associated with these vehicles, and which we mentioned during the debate, must not be ignored.
Therefore, these measures strengthen the EU's position within the framework of combating pollution and protecting the environment, by facilitating the use of clean vehicles, whatever the vehicle type.
in writing. - (RO) I support the promotion of electric vehicles as a medium- and long-term priority.
We must identify ways of encouraging Member States to implement a common strategy on standardising electric vehicles.
I think that local authorities have an important role to play in this.
The growing concern for CO2 emissions and climate change has created an urgent need for rapid development to make it possible for electric vehicles to be a valid alternative to those currently in use.
Increased use of this mode of transport makes a very positive contribution to achieving the objectives set out in the 'Europe 2020' Strategy.
in writing. - (DE) In the context of our shrinking resources, electric vehicles definitely have the potential to become a genuinely climate-friendly alternative, provided that we continue to develop them.
However, this will only be the case if both the manufacturing processes and the operation of the cars are genuinely non-resource-intensive and environmentally friendly.
Electric and hybrid drive systems are currently still in their infancy and we need to put in place a standardised framework without giving this technology priority over other alternative drive systems.
Promoting electric cars will help significantly in combating climate change, by switching to cleaner and more advanced technologies, in promoting innovation and in limiting our energy dependency.
In fact, in 2007, 72% of the European population lived in urban areas, which are the key to growth and employment.
Urban areas have the task, today, of making transport sustainable in environmental (CO2, air pollution, noise), competition (congestion) and social (demographic changes, inclusion, health) terms.
Nine out of 10 EU citizens believe that the traffic situation in their area should be improved.
I am convinced that coordinated action at EU level can help to strengthen the markets in new technologies for clean vehicles and in alternative fuels.
in writing. - I followed my group in voting in favour of this resolution, although our amendment on speeding up a review of type-approval legislation was not adopted.
In Europe 380 000 businesses are involved in motor vehicle distribution and services.
This motion for a resolution, which I already supported in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and which I voted for again today in plenary, carries a clear message on the part of the European Parliament.
As the European Commission has started the process of reviewing the legislation applicable to motor vehicles, in particular Regulation (EC) No 1400/2002 ('MVBER') and Regulation (EC) No 2790/1999 ('GBER'), it is important to note that the Union and its Member States are currently facing an unprecedented economic and financial crisis that has had a real and profound impact on the automotive industry.
In view of what we have just voted on regarding electric vehicles, the new regulatory framework must incentivise the manufacture and use of this type of vehicle, as well as environmental research and the development of automobiles with less environmental impact and lower emissions.
We voted against this motion for a resolution, which welcomes, in principle, the current revision of the competition rules applicable to distribution and repairs in the motor vehicle sector.
The question is whether the objective of the Commission, and in particular of the Directorate-General for Competition, is to justify its existence by producing laws, rather than implementing regulations that satisfy demands for quality and safety of services and products, demands that are necessary everywhere, but particularly in the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. - (DE) The Commission's proposed changes are contrary to the interests in particular of small and medium-sized businesses in the motor vehicle sector.
The so-called 'block exemption' regulation, introduced at European level in 2002 to increase competition in the motor vehicle sector and bring tangible benefits to consumers, is reaching its expiry date.
Cancer is one of the biggest health challenges faced by Europe: it is the second most important cause of death in the EU, with 3 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths every year.
One of the purposes of the proposal presented by the Commission for a 'European Partnership for Action Against Cancer - 2009-2013' is to support the Member States in their efforts to tackle cancer by providing a framework for identifying and sharing information, capacity and expertise in cancer prevention and control and by engaging relevant stakeholders across the EU in a collective effort.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this report, since the European Partnership for Action Against Cancer for the period 2009-2013 proposed by the European Commission is an excellent initiative to combat this terrible disease more effectively.
The Partnership proposed by the Commission aims to support the Member States in their efforts to tackle cancer by providing a framework for identifying and sharing information, capacity and expertise in cancer prevention and control.
I would like to stress that only by engaging all the relevant stakeholders across the European Union in a collective effort to address cancer, can we remarkably reduce the number of cancer cases in Europe.
I also agree that the Commission and the Member States must ensure that in all Member States there is equal access to cancer drugs for all patients who need them.
Therefore, this partnership to combat cancer initiated by the Commission is a very important step towards a common social and political partnership for all of Europe that aims to reduce the European burden of cancer.
The European Parliament is using the motion for a resolution it has adopted to draw attention to the fact that there are still unacceptable disparities across Europe in terms of cancer screening and treatment.
One third of the cancers diagnosed have a fatal outcome for the patient because they were diagnosed too late.
This is a reality which Europe must change through information programmes, educating the public and facilitating access to high-quality medical services.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to set up a European Partnership for Action Against Cancer for the period 2009-2013 because I believe that the fight against cancer is an essential part of the Health Strategy.
This is why it is important that there be a cross-cutting and integrated approach in fields of action such as education, the environment, research, and social issues, as well as greater coordination between the various cancer-research centres in the EU.
I would draw attention to the need to make better use of the finance aimed at combating cancer under the Seventh Framework Programme as well as the need for large-scale research programmes.
The European Commission proposes a European Partnership for Action Against Cancer for the period 2009-2013.
The Treaty of Lisbon defines precisely that the Union shall have competence to carry out actions to support, coordinate or supplement the actions of the Member States.
I therefore welcome this motion for a resolution's recommendation to mobilise the public sector in general to invest in a robust and consistent effort for cancer prevention.
We therefore consider the EU's support for the Member States' efforts at fighting cancer, as mentioned in the report, as well as the promotion of a collective effort in the sharing of information, capacity and expertise in cancer prevention and control, to be important.
The reduced number of cases of cancer in some countries resulting from the adoption of policies to improve prevention and treatment shows that this is a good path to follow.
The report refers to various significant issues, including: the need for primary prevention and control of diseases that can develop into cancer; the importance of screening; the insufficiency of the funding that is currently available to the fight against cancer in the EU, particularly public funding; the need to reduce occupational and environmental exposure to carcinogens; the need to update the lists of carcinogenic substances; and the protection of cancer patients and chronically sick people in the workplace.
As the author of written declaration no 71/2009 on the fight against breast cancer in the European Union, which has been adopted by Parliament, I am exceedingly pleased by the Commission communication on Action Against Cancer: European Partnership.
In this document, the problem of cancer in the EU has been diagnosed and objectives set in the fight against cancer.
To put this programme into effect, it is necessary to achieve integration of all Member States' plans in the fight against cancer by 2013.
The differences between the Member States with the best and the worst results in the EU are still too great.
I voted for this report concerning the setting up of a European Partnership for Action against Cancer for the period 2009-2013.
The aim of this partnership is to establish a framework for identifying and sharing information, capacity and expertise in cancer prevention and control.
Even though health is the responsibility of each Member State, we have everything to gain from adopting a global approach to cancer prevention and treatment, and that is what I am supporting here.
I also welcome the adoption, on 19 April, of a written statement, which I supported, calling on all EU Member States to introduce breast cancer screening nationwide and the Commission to draw up a follow-up report every two years.
I think that in order to tackle this growth we must improve national plans for the fight against cancer and run an even more effective information campaign for people in the EU.
This would make it possible to carry out scientific research and a wide-ranging programme of anti-cancer prophylactic measures in all the countries of the Union.
The fight against all forms of cancer is part of this, as this disease is responsible for the deaths of millions of European citizens every year.
It is very important to develop efforts in the fight against the three types of cancer that cause the most deaths - lung cancer, colon cancer and breast cancer - without neglecting the others.
in writing. - (DE) Throughout Europe cancer is the greatest threat to health and the death rates from cancer are high.
Out of 3 million new sufferers, 1.7 million will not survive.
We must not only invest in treatment across Europe, but also provide support for preventive measures.
This report should been seen as a positive step in the right direction and that is why I have voted in favour of it.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on Action Against Cancer: European Partnership.
All measures intended to fight cancer and minimise its effects should be supported.
However, it is possible to prevent cancer and limit its effects in about 30% of cases.
The European Union, acting in the interests of its citizens and because of the need to ensure their safety, must provide for the development of appropriate methods of early diagnosis of disease, preventative measures and advanced therapy.
In many Member States it has been possible to achieve progress in the fight against cancer in different ways, including use of anti-smoking strategies and specific methods of prevention.
Similar measures should be put in place throughout the Union, but with greater intensity and effectiveness.
Reducing cancer cases in the European Union by 15% between now and 2020: that is the ambitious objective of the European Partnership for Action Against Cancer for the period 2009-2013.
It is an objective that is supported today by the European Parliament vote on the Peterle report.
In 2010 alone, 3 million Europeans will develop cancer, and nearly 2 million people will die of the disease.
These are all measures resolutely aimed at diversifying the provision of patient care so that 2010 is the year of reaction and so that the European Union not only supports, but also inspires national programmes for action against cancer.
I strongly support the European Parliament report on the Commission communication on Action Against Cancer: European Partnership.
According to estimates by the International Agency for Research on Cancer, one in three Europeans is diagnosed with cancer, and one in four Europeans dies from this disease.
This year, 3 million Europeans will develop cancer and nearly 2 million are expected to die of cancer.
In Poland, about 100 000 people fall victim to cancer every year, and 70 000 die.
The fight against cancer is one of the permanent areas of EU action in the field of public health.
The objectives of the partnership, and in particular its prophylactic measures, are essential to limit the incidence of cancer.
In the communication, goals have been set for a 10-year period, whereas the Community budget ensures only short-term financial support.
Therefore, I appeal for: increased subsidies, especially for prophylactic programmes in the area of regional policy and the European Social Fund; more effective use of resources available in the Seventh Framework Programme, for example for better coordination of scientific research; and increased resources to be planned in the new Financial Perspective.
in writing. - (LT) Cancer is the biggest health problem in Europe and indeed worldwide.
Sadly, today cancer is still epidemically increasing.
Urgent action must be taken to improve cancer control and prevention in the EU.
Statistical indicators for the various types of cancer are among the worst in the whole of the EU.
Therefore, I particularly welcome the European Parliament Resolution on combating cancer in the enlarged EU and the European Commission's European Partnership for Action Against Cancer for the period 2009-2013, a new attempt to join all the stakeholders to work together in the spirit of fruitful partnership.
The objective we all share is to help Member States combat cancer and provide a framework for identifying and sharing information, capacity and expertise in cancer prevention and control.
This new form of cooperation is intended to support the efforts of Member States in the fight against cancer.
Medical statistics show that over 3 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths are recorded every year in Europe.
As part of the European Partnership, Member States should prepare, as quickly as possible, integrated plans for fighting this cruel disease, so that it will be possible to reduce incidence by 15% by 2020.
Therefore, preventative measures should be supported both as part of medical practice and in the context of ever more healthy lifestyles.
The policy of energy saving will characterise the sustainability of the European social model, which is why I decided to vote in favour of the report.
The analyses show that the smart use of information and communications technology (ICT) can reduce energy consumption in buildings, which currently account for 40% of the total energy consumption in Europe, by up to 17%.
All these figures amount to the reduction of carbon emissions by up to 27% in the transport sector alone.
Their influence on the energy sector also involves a profound change in our society, making it more decentralised and flexible, with distribution as a byword for greater wealth.
The use of ICT and grid technologies allows us to improve the efficiency of our energy consumption by, for example, developing electricity distribution grids, smart buildings, smart homes and smart metering as well as eco-efficient transport.
ICT can also play an important role in measuring and quantifying the global effects of climate change and evaluating climate protection measures, thereby contributing to the fine-tuning of climate policy.
ICT could acquire an important role in alleviating the effects of climate change by reducing energy consumption, increasing energy efficiency and integrating renewable energies.
At a time when reducing emissions of CO2 and greenhouse gases along with investment in renewable energy and 'green' technology are priorities, this report is extremely timely.
It is therefore essential to consider the presentation of measures for the mobilisation of information and communications technologies, in order to make the transition to a more efficient energy economy possible at the least possible cost to the public and to companies.
Information and communication technologies can make a significant contribution to the EU economy's energy efficiency, notably in the buildings and transport sector.
There can be no doubt that mobilising information and communication technologies (ICT) can facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient economy, since this is also a way of reducing energy consumption, increasing energy security and helping to curb environmental damage, particularly greenhouse-gas emissions.
We therefore support various proposals included in the report, specifically those that incentivise the harnessing of ICT in the planning of a new transport policy and increase intermodality in the transport sector, or those that call on the Commission to develop a different vision for aid priorities, taking into account these issues of mobilisation of ICT to facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient economy in various areas beyond transport and mobility, such as industry, health and housing.
The information and communication technologies (ICT) sector is without doubt one means of improving the energy efficiency of the individual Member States.
The broad public consultation process launched by the European Commission clarified the manner in which ICTs can help to improve energy efficiency.
Urban organisation achieved through the use of ICTs can substantially reduce the energy impact of urban areas.
The European Union has reaffirmed its commitment to a 20% reduction in carbon emissions by 2020.
For these reasons I reaffirm my full support for this strategy, which combines appropriate economic and industrial development with an environmentally sustainable strategy.
in writing. - (RO) Information and communications technologies (ICT) offer in every Member State a means of increasing energy efficiency and provide new applications and technologies for improving the use of natural resources and for transforming industrial production and processes into an eco-efficient economy.
The ICT sector employs 6.6 million people in the 27 EU Member States, stimulates the innovative capacity of every sector and contributes more than 40% of the global increase in productivity.
The European Commission and Committee of the Regions must urgently produce the 'practical guide for local and regional authorities' on how to improve energy performance through the innovative use of ICT.
It will also describe how the cohesion funds can support business partnerships for creating innovative ICT applications in order to encourage and support cities and municipalities in the use of ICT for reducing emissions.
in writing. - I was rapporteur for the Environment Committee's opinion for this report, and I am acutely aware of the potential for the ICT sector to deliver considerable energy savings in the European Union, particularly in buildings and the transport sector.
Taking into account the fact that the measures put in place to achieve the objective of 20% energy savings by 2020 are working too slowly, there is a need to increase and accelerate innovativeness in information and communication technologies and to achieve a significant increase in the proportion of energy obtained from renewable sources.
Therefore, emphasis should be placed on applying information and communication technologies in this very sector, in order not only to reduce the level of emissions, but also to prevent it from rising.
All of these measures will not only bring measurable benefits for the climate, but will also reduce the costs associated with energy use and will lead to the creation of environment-friendly jobs.
However, it should be borne in mind that the new Member States are not able to adapt so quickly to the requirements introduced by the European Union.
We should also take account of the interests of these countries, because they constitute a significant group which still uses traditional sources of energy.
in writing. - (LT) I support the European Commission's initiative to use information and communications technologies (ICT) in order to improve the Union's energy efficiency and increase the competitiveness of European industry.
According to the calculations presented by the European Commission, the use of ICT is an excellent measure allowing us to reduce energy consumption and at the same time reduce the amount of carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 27%, something which is very important.
I completely agree with and support the position expressed by the rapporteur that the application of ICT will stimulate European industry and the new technologies market, and this would contribute to market resuscitation or the creation of new jobs.
I believe that it is necessary to take all measures to both begin applying ICT in those Member States, where it has not yet been applied, and improve it where it is already being applied.
In particular I would like to stress the importance of ICT in the planning of a new European transport policy.
It is important to recognise the need to increase public and private investment in ICT tools in order to develop smart energy infrastructures for transport.
The use of intelligent transport systems (ITS) applied to road transport and interfaced with other transport modes can help reduce congestion and its harmful effects on the environment.
As a member of the Committee on Regional Development (REGI), I would like to stress that we must encourage Member States to disseminate good practice and raise awareness among local decision makers of the benefits that ICTs have to offer.
The White Paper on climate change is a step forward towards standardising the actions aimed at cutting carbon emissions at European level.
In view of its ambitious target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, the European Union needs to move much faster than it is at the moment.
However, the experts are not very optimistic.
I welcome the European Commission's initiative to present a broad policy framework for European action on climate adaptation policy.
However, mitigation and adaptation measures must not be separate.
I also believe that additional measures must be prioritised to promote the EU's strategy aimed at achieving a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020, with a view to making this objective legally binding at Union level.
Of the adaptation measures presented, I would stress solidarity among EU Member States towards disadvantaged regions and those most affected by climate change.
I would also stress the importance of the role of research and technology in developing a low-carbon society, in view of the Commission's recent communication on the Strategic Energy Technology Plan, and the logic of intervention between the public and private sectors as well as between Union, national and regional financing.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution which welcomes the Commission White Paper on an EU strategy for climate change adaptation and proposes a range of measures across several policy fields.
Biodiversity is at risk, but there is also a need to ensure that urban, transport and infrastructure planning does take climate change into account.
It may gravely impact on respiratory health and increase the incidence of vector-borne diseases.
Adaptation measures are necessary in order to meet the challenges posed by climate change.
I believe that adaptation to climate change is necessary and will allow us to improve current emergency management systems, management that could be more efficient by combining satellite and ground-based observations.
As I said yesterday regarding the vote on the Le Foll report on EU agriculture and climate change, 'environmental concerns, whilst legitimate and necessary, must be duly weighed against the impact of the proposals in terms of agricultural sustainability and productivity'.
Any climate change policy must - particularly against a backdrop of economic and financial crisis -seek economic efficiency and sustainability, putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive.
The focus must be on clean sources of energy, on the more efficient use of natural resources, and on strong investment in research and technologies that are more environmentally friendly; this will make it possible to maintain European competitiveness and will allow the creation of more jobs within a framework of sustainable development.
The EU must retain and reinforce its leadership role in the international fight against climate change.
Scientific research in this area is essential if we are to take a path that is right and safe, whether for combating climate change or for adapting to it.
In fact, I advocate making national adaptation plans based on a common European framework obligatory.
I believe that we must have common European policies in areas such as, for example, water, energy and forests; for example, I would reiterate the need for a European charter of risks for the coastal borders.
This report is in keeping with the belief that climate change is global, disastrous and inevitably human in origin.
I fully agree with the rapporteur and think that in order to coordinate these measures better it is extremely important to implement a system of information exchange and monitoring at international level, but also at regional and local levels.
I am pleased, above all, by the emphasis on the significant role of the common agricultural policy, which in the process of adaptation to climate change plays a key role as a guardian of ecosystems and biological diversity.
There are, in fact, obvious difficulties in managing Italy's hydrologic resources, as is clear not only from the frequent droughts in the south during the summer months, but also from certain episodes of flooding, such as the one that occurred in December with the River Serchio in Tuscany.
In Italy we also have the terrible problem of summer fires, and that is why it is absolutely crucial to improve safety conditions.
It is true that the risk is more present in Southern Europe, but let us not forget that climate change affects all of Europe's environmental assets.
in writing. - We, as Greens, voted in favour of this report.
However, I am not certain if in assuming the role of leader in the international fight against global climate warming, as is recommended in the document, the EU is not trying to take on too much responsibility for global affairs.
It seems to me that when we are having to deal with challenges such as the economic crisis and the need to create growth, we should not be treating expenditure on the fight against global climate warming as a priority.
Irrespective of the measures which will be put in place for adapting to climate change, it should also be borne in mind that some countries will be exposed to exceptionally high costs of implementation of the adaptation policy, and leaving these countries without any financial support may lead to an increase in the differences in development of different Member States.
In my report in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I regretted the lack of consideration given to the transport sector in the European strategy for adapting to climate change, when it is of considerable economic importance and one of the principal sources of CO2 emissions.
Furthermore, our strategy must take into account sensitive geographical areas, such as coastal, marine and mountain areas, which are particularly vulnerable and will bear the brunt of climate change if we fail to take suitable protection measures.
Our Parliament must urgently adopt effective adaptation mechanisms for the transport sector, which must no longer simply be the cause of the problem but must become a solution in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - Securing value for money, effective management, and the elimination of fraud are key priorities of the ECR Group for the EU budget.
We therefore support the thrust of the Cozzolino report and most of its conclusions.
In order to achieve that, I consider it essential to adopt measures that establish greater transparency in the fight against tax fraud - especially in VAT - and all financial crimes; greater cooperation between governments in the case of cross-border fraud; improvements in the quality of data and constant updating of national databases; and rapid responses by governments to requests for information.
I would also stress the essential contribution of the European Anti-Fraud Office to reducing these figures.
The annual report on the protection of the Communities' financial interests for 2008 records that the financial impact of irregularities, as far as they have been identified, fell from EUR 1 024 million in 2007 to EUR 783.2 million in 2008, with reductions being recorded in all spending areas except direct expenditure and pre-accession funds.
Combating fraud and corruption is an important duty of the European institutions and all Member States, which must provide all necessary resources to combat these scourges effectively so as to protect the financial interests of the Union and its taxpayers.
At this time of economic and financial crisis, not a single euro of the EU budget can be wasted, and this is even truer when such waste is a result of fraud that leads to Union funds being paid out inappropriately.
Nevertheless, we cannot be satisfied with reducing these irregularities to marginal amounts or to almost zero.
in writing. - (DE) For me the fight against fraud is a very important concern, in particular with regard to the regional funds and the pre-accession funds.
However, the proposed measures for combating fraud have too much of a centralist focus.
I fully support the work done by the Commission, and I would point out that the fight against fraud and corruption is a clear duty of the European institutions and of all the Member States.
in writing. - In the final vote, I said in favour.
However, the greatest growth was recorded in the area of pre-accession funds, where the wrong spending of resources rose by as much as 90.6%, but it should be remembered that they are not Member States and they lack experience.
Despite this improvement in the situation in 2008, a certain part of EU budgetary resources is still being badly spent.
However, it is essential to guarantee its full operational independence.
Combating fraud in European projects should be a priority for us.
I would like to stress that combating fraud and corruption is an important duty of the European institutions and all Member States.
However, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that in some countries corruption in the distribution of European Union funds is directly linked to the discrediting of policies conducted within these countries.
Separate political and financial clans are forming in these countries that aim to control the distribution of European Union funds.
Therefore, the European Parliament, the European Commission and other important European Union institutions should draw attention to discrimination against and discrediting of policies, political organisations, political opponents and opposition leaders at national level.
The European Union that fosters democracy must firstly ensure that the opposition parties of its Member States have the opportunity to work and express themselves freely and control actions for corruption prevention.
The instruments that currently exist, such as the JESSICA Fund, are one of the few financial engineering instruments that a region or municipality can use to finance urban development projects.
The interventions also extend to council housing, but only in relation to areas that complement the project and to the energy renovation and improvement of buildings.
I welcome the 2008 annual report of the European Investment Bank (EIB), and encourage it to continue its activities to promote the development of the European economy and foster growth, stimulate employment, and promote interregional and social cohesion.
The EIB responded quickly to the global economic crisis, in particular through the Economic Recovery Plan, and for those Member States which have been most severely hit by the crisis.
By making adequate funding available, the EIB should play a greater role in supporting infrastructure investment, green technologies, innovation and SMEs, as part of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) plays an essential role in helping Member States face up to the serious economic, financial and social crisis.
Therefore, bearing in mind that the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force and the current and future challenges that are emerging for a European Union that is in a difficult economic and social situation, it is essential to reinforce the activities of the European Investment Bank, make its activities more transparent and set the right priorities for it.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) was established in 1958 by the Treaty of Rome.
Its main target is to contribute to the integration, a balanced and sustainable development as well as an economic and social cohesion of the EU Member States.
In terms of crisis management, I am pleased to highlight the EIB's quick response to the global economic crisis by self-financing an increase of its capital and hence raising its volume of lending in support of the European Economic Recovery Plan.
I therefore welcome the EIB's annual report for 2008 and the adoption of this report, which encourages it to continue its activities to promote the development of the European economy and foster growth, stimulate employment, and promote interregional and social cohesion.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) plays a very important role in the EU's economy, because it is the guarantor of funding for operations inside Europe that are connected to the following: ensuring economic and social cohesion; preparing for the knowledge economy; developing trans-European transport and access networks; supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); protecting and improving the environment; and ensuring sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
It will not be possible to implement the 'Europe 2020' Strategy without the support of the EIB, which will have to make available the funds necessary to carry out projects in the areas of infrastructure, green technology, innovation and SMEs.
The EIB has seen its role expand in 2008 as a result of the financial crisis.
As a response to the crisis, the EIB has significantly revised upwards its targets: in order to help businesses and to encourage economic recovery, the EIB has substantially increased the volume of its lending, disbursing EUR 10 billion more than expected.
In particular, loans to SMEs have increased by 42%.
Furthermore, the Bank has developed new risk-sharing financial instruments, simplified lending procedures and accelerated the implementation of projects in the Member States and in the sectors that are most severely affected by the crisis.
I voted in favour in the final vote.
As well as recognising the fact that the responsibility for the mass violence between Christians and Muslims should be ascribed to both ethnic groups, we ought perhaps to have made it clear that another worrying factor, which also relates to the episodes of violence that have occurred, is the gradual penetration in Nigeria of radical Islam, a very clear expression of which is the adoption by 12 of the 36 states of sharia as the law of the land.
The conflict in Nigeria has roots in religious, economic, ethnic, social, historical and political reasons.
The adverse effects of climate change have also been contributing to the worsening of the situation in Nigeria.
I believe that, in a country as oil-rich as Nigeria, equal access to resources and income redistribution are necessary for the peaceful resolution of these conflicts.
I voted for the European Parliament motion for a resolution on the mass atrocities in Jos, Nigeria.
The EU must pursue political dialogue with Nigeria, under Article 8 of the revised Cotonou Agreement, and urgently tackle issues relating to freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief, as enshrined in universal, regional and national human rights instruments.
Although the Igbo revolt was crushed because the military power of the central government prevented Biafran independence, the truth is that the ethnic, cultural and religious differences persist and are on the increase there, making the country a classic case of a state that is under permanent threat of disintegration.
As MEPs, I believe we have a role to play in the defence and promotion of human rights, which are violated on a daily basis in Nigeria.
In the light of all these measures, which of course will not all be easy to apply, I was eager to vote in favour of this joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (DE) In Nigeria there have been repeated outbreaks of violence between Christians and Muslims and each of these two groups represent around half of the population.
When Muslim nomads attacked Christian villages at the beginning of the year and at least 500 people were murdered, it is said that the army only responded hours after receiving the first report.
The European Union must act as an honest broker in this respect and respond more quickly.
This is made clear in the motion for a resolution, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
