Single application procedure for residence and work (debate) The next item is the report by Véronique Mathieu, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State - C6-0470/2007 -.
We must therefore find solutions at the European level to meet the needs of the labour market, and economic migration is one of the solutions that we must explore.
As is stated in Articles 1 and 8 of this draft directive, states will retain control over the number of migrants that they wish to admit onto their national territory.
If it is adopted by Parliament and the Council, this directive will confirm that the European Union values the important contribution third-country workers make to our economies and our societies.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Mathieu, ladies and gentlemen, immigration in Europe is undoubtedly a highly important and hugely significant political, economic and social issue.
The Council said so in Tampere 11 years ago, the Commission said so five years ago in its Green Paper, and tomorrow, Parliament must vote on a proposal for a legislative initiative.
If I have understood you correctly, Mrs Malmström, a proposal for a directive on the conditions governing stays by third-country nationals in the European Union for work purposes was made as early as 2001.
Madam President, the proposal now on the table - and I do not entirely agree with Mr Cercas - indicates that third-country nationals who are in possession of a single permit have social rights which are, in fact, the same for everyone.
The debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Environment - and I thank my fellow member Mr Cercas, because I am happy to discuss this with him - became quite heated on two points.
Madam President, the directive on a single permit for residence and work really is very important.
There were many discussions, many opinions and many assessments, but a joint decision that would be acceptable for all third-country workers legally residing and working in EU Member States has not been reached.
This directive should be a general framework directive on rights for third-country workers and should serve as a framework for specific directives, because only then can it contribute to the European Union goal of a common migration policy.
If we vote on this directive tomorrow, we must be united, because only then can we win this struggle for all groups of workers to be included in this directive and for them to have equal rights.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, first of all, I would like to start with a little point of order: I note that for such an important debate, our partner in the negotiations, the Council, is absent.
It is not the first time and I request the Presidency of this House to write to the Council and complain about this. (Applause) Then I would like to go on and, like the others, congratulate Mrs Mathieu for doing a very good job on a very difficult, complex and sensitive dossier.
Finally, in 1999 in Tampere, the Member States came out with this grand statement that they wanted a common asylum and immigration policy.
It is very clear that the Member States do not want a common immigration policy.
We want to remind the Council that we are concerned here with individuals who should be able to develop their skills and education, benefit from the social security contributions they make and look forward to claiming their pension entitlements, given, as is recognised in the proposal, that their work supports our economies and indeed our societies.
Fundamentally, this text has but one aim, which is easy to spot, and that is to make workers in the European Union compete against workers from countries outside Europe, and even make immigrant workers compete against each other, depending on their status.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report in question certainly contains some positive elements, and the general aim is to simplify processes and reduce the bureaucratic steps for third-country workers who hold a valid residence permit in a Member State.
However, as a discussion point, I would like to mention the fact that, today in Europe, tens of millions of citizens - very many of whom are young - are without work as a result of structural deficiencies in the European productive system and as a result of a crisis which does not seem to have an end in sight.
Our countries will then have the strength to offer work to others as well. (NL) Madam President, my party has always made it clear that we oppose a European asylum and immigration policy.
I will vote against this report because I have been elected by the Dutch and not by fortune-seekers who want to taste Western pleasures without embracing Judeo-Christian values. (MT) Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating Véronique Mathieu for all the effort she put into achieving this result.
Madam President, I think my colleagues from the S&amp;D Group, Mr Cercas and Mrs Blinkevičiūtė, both referred to the central problem for our group in this package: it is not just about equal treatment or the country-of-origin principle - as Mrs Oomen-Ruijten said, that has been debated very extensively.
Our group has deep concerns in the employment sphere on the country-of-origin principle and, as my colleague Mrs Blinkevičiūtsaid, we have a real problem with the categories of workers who are included in this proposal.
The Council did not want to deal with this in a horizontal way and we are left with this kind of piecemeal approach.
We want to make it a realistic single permit that will really work for all Member States and will stand the test of time. (DE) Madam President, I have now been in Parliament for a year and I have dealt with various dossiers, but none of them have been as difficult as what we have on the table here.
That, in principle, is something we can all agree on as a starting point.
As has already been said - Mrs in 't Veld mentioned it - the Member States stated back in 1990 in Tampere that they wanted to develop a common structure.
It is particularly important to me, for example, that everyone should have access to training and further education, because this is absolutely crucial - not just for the persons concerned, so that they can work in the labour market, but also for us with our real need for workers.
We are therefore a long way from a horizontal and universal approach to workers' rights.
I think that those responsible in Europe have still not understood that more rights for workers means greater economic efficiency and greater social cohesion, with greater individual and collective benefits, of course, for migrants, for the host societies and for the societies of origin.
We are not, I think, at all equal to the challenges. (HU) Madam President, we all know that economic immigration is a real phenomenon in the Member States of the European Union.
I am convinced that the provision of equal rights cannot stop at the prohibition of discrimination on the labour market.
Should Europe decide therefore that economic immigration is the solution to the imbalances caused by the demographic situation, it must not disregard the cultural dimension of the issue.
The success of multiculturalism presupposes tolerance, mutual respect and solidarity. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the solution that we are discussing is an erroneous solution, that it is highly unfair to many vulnerable people and that, in some ways, it is also self-destructive, because it will not have escaped anyone's attention - and this point has already been made - that there is a contradiction between discussing a single permit and beginning with waivers and exceptions.
Many of us in Parliament would like to have gone further, but I believe that this is a step in the right direction, for two reasons in particular: firstly, because we are currently creating a new instrument aimed at benefiting the nationals of third countries who wish to immigrate to the territory of Member States by conferring upon them a set of rights; secondly, as Mrs Mathieu has already said, because of the political message that we are sending overseas, which counteracts the idea of a Fortress Europe that is only able to adopt repressive measures and strengthen security, while, at the same time, we are responding to the concerns expressed in the Stockholm Programme regarding the creation of flexible immigration policies in order to promote the Union's economic development.
I therefore agree with Mrs Mathieu that an agreement urgently needs to be reached with the Council and, while I share Mrs in 't Veld's view that many Member States do not want to discuss any sort of common immigration policy, this makes it important to take the first step.
Furthermore, I believe that the creation of a single application procedure for a residency and work permit will be of benefit in efficiency terms, for both migrants and employers, and that it will also make it easier to monitor the legality of their residence and employment. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to date, access to employment has been regulated only for a few specific categories of third-country nationals.
As a result, the European Union must take steps to guarantee equal treatment both for third-country nationals legally residing in a Member State and for those who qualify for refugee status or who require international protection, pursuant to Council Directive 2004/83 of 29 April 2004.
Regulation of access to the labour market directly affects the social partners and they should therefore be involved in its substance.
What this is about - and I say that again to all the members here - is an amendment by me which is intended to ensure equal treatment for everyone who enters a Member State with a single permit for residence and work.
Mr President, that is simply not true! (RO) Mr President, the single permit will facilitate administrative procedures, improve the control and management of economic migration and the exchange of data on labour market demand.
I would also like us to remember that we are regulating the rights of third-country workers, but we still have not fully achieved a free labour market for all EU citizens. (SV) Mr President, there has been a lot of talk about equal rights in this debate.
It is also a matter of balance or conflict, because that is the choice that we will have, and it is also a question of a long-term or a short-term approach.
We know what amending the Posting of Workers Directive from a minimum directive to a maximum directive has meant in terms of shattering the order and balance on the labour market.
That is the only way to ensure that the exclusions do not create these serious social conflicts. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 December 1990, the UN adopted the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families.
Unfortunately, 20 years later, none of the Member States of the European Union have signed or ratified that Convention.
For this reason, I ask all Members to support Amendment 16 and to sign Written Declaration 96 - to which I am a signatory, together with Cornelia Ernst, Sylvie Guillaume and Franziska Keller - in order to petition Member States to ratify the UN Convention on migrant workers. (PT) Mr President, it is true that this proposal for a directive discusses a wide variety of situations, including, for example, immigrant workers from third countries, seasonal workers and posted workers, but the truth is that what this represents in practice is the legalisation of social dumping, the reinforcing of job insecurity and the worsening of discrimination, under the pretext of a single regulation.
It would be positive if the Commission committed to adopting and ratifying this Convention for all Member States. (SK) Mr President, economic migration is a fact that is more or less familiar to all the more affluent countries of the European Union.
As the world's biggest donor to third countries, it is right that we should be trying to ensure that those who are legally within our borders will be treated with the same dignity and respect that we would like to be shown to our citizens if they were in third countries.
We would be prepared to accept the Commission's original text, but the text from the Council states that all posted workers, including those who are covered by the 1996 directive, are also excluded from this directive.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this has indeed been a very good debate.
The directive is necessary because we have third-country workers.
Having said that, contrary to some of the views that have been expressed here today, let me emphasise that the present directive establishes the principle of equal treatment for migrant workers in all employment-related areas, including employment conditions and wages.
Once adopted, the directive will be a very important tool in the fight for the protection of migrant workers and against social dumping.
Mr President, Commissioner, I must agree wholeheartedly with you, as you have given very full answers to the 23 fellow Members who have spoken on our text, to Mr Cercas and to me.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 14 December 2010.
