Beijing +15 - UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality (debate) The next item is the debate on the following: oral question to the Council: Beijing +15 - UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality, by Mrs Svensson, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality - B7-0007/2010), and oral question to the Commission: Beijing +15 - UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality, by Mrs Svensson, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality - B7-0008/2010).
The issue of women's rights is always high on my agenda, and therefore I am particularly pleased when they are also a focus of our discussions here in plenary, as today.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality has adopted a resolution that represents Parliament's position as regards the Beijing platform.
The platform adopted in 1995 within the framework of the United Nations was an historically important step.
The Universal Declaration comprises 30 articles and they are often cited.
The new European Institute for Gender Equality, based in Vilnius, will be a way for us to obtain assistance with this work and will also be able to provide research to show which political measures are most effective, for there are many areas in which we do not have the necessary facts or knowledge.
These are areas such as poverty which, first and foremost, affects women, inadequate access to health care for women, violence against women in all its forms, and inequality in economic structures and in economic policy.
The Committee adopted one paragraph stating that sexual and reproductive health and sexual and reproductive rights are part of women's rights and that these need to be improved in Europe and globally.
I entirely agree with the PPE Group that paragraph 9 is central.
The Council of the European Union has always approved and has always been behind the Union and the United Nations in the area of gender equality.
I am therefore sure that this, along with the Commission's programme of work, a major programme of work that has always been a fundamental instrument for guiding this strategy, is going to mean that this aspect is included in the document which the Commission has promised us for 3 March on the 2020 strategy (which has been mentioned by President Van Rompuy and the President of the Commission, José Manuel Barroso).
It is not only an issue of justice, but an issue of consistency with the spirit of the European Union, so that it can continue to be a reference point in the world for equality between men and women.
Furthermore, I recall with great emotion how, more than 15 years ago, as a young Luxembourg MEP, I prepared the Beijing Platform for Action in Luxembourg; now, here we are in the European Parliament to prepare the follow-up to the Beijing Platform for Action.
It will also be an opportunity to gauge, at international level, the progress made in the 12 areas for action which were identified in Beijing, but also to see what inequalities persist, because even though there have been successes, there are still challenges to meet.
That is why equal treatment between men and women is a horizontal policy in the Commission, conducted not just by the Commissioner responsible for this area, but also by other Commissioners in their own areas of responsibility, namely the areas concerning policies within the European Union as well as its external policies and, in particular, its cooperation and development policies.
The impact has been truly remarkable given that, in all our Member States, our equality policies are no longer confined to targeted actions, but are, from now on, integrated into all relevant policies.
The Beijing Platform for Action has also enabled us to follow progress made in relation to equality on the basis of indicators developed by Council for most of the areas of action.
Both Presidents have just expressed their opinions on Europe 2020.
It is only natural that in this system, which is going to get Europe moving again, women will play a special role, especially at a time when fewer and fewer people are in employment.
In fact, we no longer even have a choice: we need women for economic development.
Naturally, we will be assisted in this task by the European Institute for Gender Equality, which, from next week - and this is another symbol, which comes at exactly the same time as the meeting is being held in New York - will be established permanently in Vilnius.
There are still many unfinished matters that need to be addressed and they have been mentioned: no stereotypical thinking, equal pay for equal work, poverty among women, violence against women and the ageing society, which affects women in particular.
For us, these are the absolutely key issues in this resolution that we want to address.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, in 2010, we mark the 15th anniversary of the launch of the Beijing Platform for Action.
This is a moment of reflection where we need not only to evaluate what we have achieved so far but also to think about new ways of attaining the goals set out in 1995.
The beginning was reassuring: in 1995, a global consensus was reached according to which women and men were equal from all points of view, including political, economic, legal and social.
In many countries, women are still not sufficiently empowered and poverty has a feminine face.
Therefore, when we go to New York in a few days' time, we have to make efforts so that all women have the same rights and that these rights are protected.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, looking back at what has been achieved since the adoption of the declaration and Platform for Action in Beijing 15 years ago, one cannot deny that a lot remains to be done.
We then also need to make sure these indicators are monitored in a timely fashion in order to update our EU strategy on gender equality accordingly.
For more than 30 years, the law has prohibited gender discrimination, yet these differences have scarcely changed in the last 10 years, occasionally even showing an upward trend.
Indeed, there needs to be a lot of action because, 15 years after Beijing, we can see that, unfortunately, the results are still of very little significance.
Women are the principal victims of trafficking and physical, sexual and psychological violence.
That is what we need in order to be able to make the correct diagnosis and then implement the correct measures. (ES) Mr President, I would like to say that I did not come to Parliament to applaud the brand new law in Spain on abortion.
Parliament's Resolution of 2 February 2006 recommended that the Member States adopt an attitude of zero tolerance towards all forms of violence against women, and that they adopt the necessary measures to ensure better protection for victims.
This reflected my request for the Spanish Presidency to promote a European protection order for the victims of gender violence during its mandate, to ensure that the victims of these crimes have the same level of protection in all the Member States.
This resolution therefore raises fundamental questions such as the need for the European Commission to develop its strategy of monitoring the programme of work, solid links with the Beijing Platform, and promoting gender equality policies, not forgetting the gender perspective in the legislative processes.
Rather, we must reconsider the measures put in place to achieve them.
Taking these two aspects into account will provide us with the consistency we need at European level to achieve our common goals.
Finally, in the long term, we must ensure that gender equality policies are integrated, but also encourage the exchange of good practice between the Member States and, of course, ensure that the European Commission's roadmap matches the progress achieved.
Above all, we must focus development cooperation support on the empowerment of women in the poorest countries, and in African countries in particular, building a possible Euro-African alliance with the women.
Without such measures, the Beijing goals are liable to remain in the realms of utopia. (LT) The principle of gender equality is very important to the European Union in striving for the goals of growth, employment and social cohesion.
There is still a lack of sufficiently reliable and comparable data both at national and EU level determining social indicators, including the poverty of women, violence against women and institutional mechanisms.
Yesterday, we heard from them and I think this House and this debate should recognise their struggle and wish them well. (RO) Equal opportunities for men and women is a fundamental principle of the European Union enshrined in Community legislation.
The European Union's strategy for growth and employment aims to ensure that by 2010, the employment rate among women should be 60%.
Poverty has a female face, including here in the European Union, where women make up the majority of the 85 million people who live in poverty.
For these reasons, we do not merely support the resolution which was approved in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, but also hope that it will be approved by a majority of this Parliament, including the paragraph which emphasises that sexual and reproductive health and rights are an integral part of the women's rights agenda, and that it is essential to step up efforts to improve women's reproductive rights and health, both in Europe and globally.
It is time to put an end to inequality and stereotypes and prioritise promoting equal rights for women and men in social progress. (RO) One of the areas of action specified by the Beijing Platform for Action in 1995 was aimed at combating violence against women.
Besides the actual problem of persistent gender inequality, there is also an absence at the European level of a high quality gender-differentiated resolution of the agreed indicators, for example, in the areas of female poverty, violence against women or the human rights of women.
I believe that in five years' time, when it will be the 20th anniversary of Beijing, we should finally be able to celebrate greater progress in resolving gender inequality worldwide. (DE) Mr President, gender equality is a fundamental principle of the EU.
I dream of a time when we can have a debate in this House and 50% of the speakers are men and 50% are women.
I think nevertheless, ladies, that when your strong delegation goes to New York to celebrate 15 years of the Beijing Platform, we should be proud, because if we look at what we have achieved in the last 15 years, it is a great deal.
It will not only look at what European women are doing, but also at what European women, European policies, the development policies can do for women in other continents.
I also believe in this sense that the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is a beautiful text which should be read by every child in the European schools and which should be worked on by every student in our universities, really makes the right point: there is no difference between men and women.
It is not only in this place where we should speak up; we should speak up in our Member States, too, and point to the problems which are arising and which are not solved, and not keep quiet until we have solved the problem.
It is also all the more serious as it is present on every continent, in every country and culture, regardless of the level of economic development.
During those 15 years, the 189 countries which signed the UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality have managed to make a certain amount of progress in all 12 areas of concern identified in the document.
Therefore, I would like to express my esteem for the UN initiative.
While considerable efforts have been made in the European Union to achieve the objectives of the Beijing Platform for Action, it has not been possible to meet them all.
A report on respect for reproductive rights in Poland in 2007 and the recommendations of the UN Human Rights Committee which are based on this report show clearly that Polish women have difficulties in gaining access to reimbursable contraception, medical care during pregnancy, prenatal tests and even to pain-free labour.
As a result, 200-400 legal terminations of pregnancy are performed in Poland every year, compared to 100 000 illegal ones.
I propose adoption of a legal abortion rate, calculated as the number of legal terminations of pregnancy per 1 000 live births per year, as a measure of the equality of women in Member States of the EU.
Point 9 of the Beijing Platform for Action, however, declares as its goal the empowerment of all women.
A significant problem in this situation is the lack of appropriate solutions concerning retirement pension entitlements for these women.
