2009 progress report on Croatia - 2009 progress report on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - 2009 progress report on Turkey (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the Council and Commission statements on the: 2009 progress report on Croatia 2009 progress report on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 2009 progress report on Turkey Mr President, I would like to begin by reiterating the firm commitment of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to the enlargement of the European Union.
Our work in this respect will follow the line of the renewed consensus on enlargement approved at the December 2006 European Council and the Council conclusions of 8 December 2009, which have also been endorsed by the European Council.
As highlighted in this House's resolution, which we are now going to debate, the first half of this year will be crucial for the negotiations with Croatia.
Therefore, a great deal of work lies ahead.
Allow me to remind you about the conclusions on Croatia adopted by the Council in December.
Naturally, we also welcomed the signing of the arbitration agreement on the contentious border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia.
The agreement was signed on 4 November in Stockholm and ratified by the Croatian Parliament on 20 November.
The Council encouraged Croatia to build on these efforts in order to solve all outstanding bilateral issues, especially border disputes.
Since this is a joint debate on Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey, I would like to state that the Western Balkans are one of the European Union's main priorities.
Stability in that region is vitally important to us, and in 2010, we are going to see a number of milestones in the region's transition: progress on the applications for accession - as we have just discussed - fresh impetus for the network of Stabilisation and Association agreements, closer regional cooperation and progress towards a more liberal visa regime.
The resolution underlines the importance of having a timetable for the opening of negotiations as well as the common desire to find, as soon as possible, an acceptable solution to the issue of the country's name, which, as you know, is currently the subject of a dispute with Greece.
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has continued to work on its relations with the European Union, which is why the European Commission stated that it had made real progress and recommended that accession negotiations be opened.
In its conclusions last December, the Council acknowledged the progress referred to by the Commission and agreed to return to the matter in the next few months.
The European Parliament, as you know, has taken note of these Council conclusions of 8 December 2009.
Moreover, 19 December saw the entry into force of the visa-free regime, in accordance with the Schengen system, for citizens of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The negotiations have entered a phase which we could say is somewhat more complicated or somewhat more problematic, which requires Turkey to redouble its efforts to meet the conditions laid down.
At its last part-session, Parliament debated Turkey and, in particular, the country's democratisation.
Therefore, in spite of the progress made, further efforts to ensure that Turkey fully meets the Copenhagen criteria are required in a number of areas, including freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion in law and in practice for all religious communities, respect for property rights, trade union rights, rights of persons belonging to minorities, civilian supervision of the military, women's and children's rights, and anti-discrimination and gender equality measures.
This is clearly reflected in both Parliament's resolution and the Council conclusions of 8 December.
I would also like to mention some other aspects of the Council conclusions.
In this context, the Union urged Turkey - as we have done in the bilateral meetings with Turkey - to avoid any kind of threat, source of friction or actions that could damage good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
The Council also noted with deep regret that Turkey has yet to implement the Additional Protocol to the Association Agreement, the so-called Ankara Protocol, and that it has not made sufficient progress towards normalisation of its relations with the Republic of Cyprus.
In the first half of 2010, in the Association Council and the Association Committee with Turkey, we will have a chance to assess the development of our relations; it will be a good opportunity to examine significant problems, such as the political criteria, the progress made in adapting national legislation and the application of the acquis.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all, I am delighted that my very first official engagement since taking up office just some hours ago is here in the European Parliament.
Thirdly, I am delighted that the European Parliament expressed its strong support for enlargement in three reports.
The resolutions are proof of the commitment of the European Parliament to the accession prospects of Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey.
I am very glad that my friend, Secretary of State López Garrido, has just reconfirmed full support for this process on behalf of the Council and its Presidency.
On Croatia, I appreciate Parliament's fair and balanced report and would like to congratulate Mr Hannes Swoboda, the rapporteur.
Let me underline that closure of negotiations in 2010 is still possible, provided that Croatia progresses in fulfilling all outstanding benchmarks.
Croatia has come a long way over recent years but important challenges still remain to be tackled.
Croatia needs to focus, in particular, on the further reform of its judiciary and public administration, the fight against corruption and organised crime, respect for minority rights including refugee return, as well as war crimes trials and full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
We are encouraged by recent developments in fighting corruption.
As for cooperation with the ICTY, which is a fundamental requirement, Chief Prosecutor Brammertz confirmed that full cooperation has still not been achieved.
I hope that the work of the task force will soon produce concrete results.
As regards the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 2009 was a good year as regards its reform process.
While the country met the political criteria, there is still much work to be done.
Like you, I am convinced that the start of accession negotiations is key to maintaining the reform momentum in the country.
On Turkey, I would like to thank your rapporteur, Ms Oomen-Ruijten, for her continued efforts towards a fair and balanced approach in her report on Turkey.
The Commission remains committed to the accession process with Turkey as this process gives strong encouragement to political and economic reform.
Work on the political criteria remains of the utmost importance, in particular, as regards fundamental freedoms.
Last week, the security protocol that allowed the army to intervene without authorisation in the case of security threats was annulled.
The submission of a draft law setting up an independent human rights institution and the much awaited anti-corruption strategy, adopted in principle by the Turkish Government on 21 January, are also promising.
The success of this initiative requires the participation and support of all political parties and all segments of society.
However, the Commission has concerns following the decision of the Constitutional Court to close the pro-Kurdish party represented in Parliament, the DTP.
We also regret the arrests that took place in the south-east at the end of December.
These statements indicate that both the Council and the Commission have the determination to complete this process as quickly as possible.
Of course, it is also Croatia's responsibility, in particular, to take the decisive steps.
Croatia has also come to an agreement with Slovenia and has ratified the agreement relatively quickly in parliament, which shows that there is a strong shared determination to meet the necessary requirements.
I hope that the same thing will happen soon in Slovenia.
However, there is still some work to be done.
There are many unresolved issues in this area, but I am certain that the government and the relevant public bodies have the will to continue this fight without exerting political influence.
Nevertheless, I hope that Croatia does everything in its power in this respect.
There must be widespread determination to solve the outstanding problems and, despite internal differences, to make it clear that the path leads to Europe and that Croatia must arrive there as quickly as possible. (Applause) 2009 was a good year for the candidate country of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM).
The authorities in Skopje have addressed and fulfilled the key priorities of the accession partnership, commonly known as benchmarks.
Secondly, FYROM was the first country in the region to comply with all the visa liberalisation requirements.
It has also cooperated successfully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in the Hague.
Secondly, we want to help our fellow Member State, Greece, and thereby the European Union as a whole, because we need to bear in mind that any country thrives only in so far as its neighbouring countries do.
Let us show solidarity with both Greece, our fellow Member State, and with the FYROM.
By way of conclusion, let me stress one more fact: FYROM has been a candidate since 2005.
Let us therefore appeal here to the authorities in Skopje, Athens and Sofia, as well as to the Spanish Presidency, Commissioner Füle, Foreign Affairs High Representative Ashton and Parliament: let us do everything, each within their own remit, to help solve this problem.
Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members, whose constructive contributions to the report have made it possible for us to achieve a consensus in most areas.
I would also like to reiterate that my aim as rapporteur for this Parliament is to bring about a situation where we send out a clear, balanced and coherent message.
The open and positive debate that there had been since the summer thus seems likely to come to a premature end as a result.
Mr President, my third, fundamental point concerns the implementation and the enforcement of legislation that has been adopted.
In the areas of women's rights, freedom of religion and the maltreatment of criminal suspects, the standards laid down also need to be complied with throughout Turkey.
In paragraph 34, I have called on all parties to ensure that a solution is reached in respect of the division of Cyprus.
I would say to Mrs Cornelissen that, although your amendment about violence against women is probably a little redundant, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will also, as expected, support it.
Mr President, finally, I would like to reiterate, once again, that, this year, too, my aim is to produce a report that offers a very clear message that is critical, but also balanced.
It is my belief that, if we adopt this report with a large majority, we will also be finding a good solution for Turkey in modernising the country and making it prosperous for all of its citizens.
We expect negotiations with Croatia to be completed and negotiations with Macedonia to be started this year.
Mr Füle, the question of the return of the refugees, if you will pardon my saying so, has been handled by Croatia in a way which could serve as a model for other states.
Therefore, I would like to say quite clearly that we should, of course, explain to these countries that they still need to make an effort.
I feel that it is important for us to work towards voting on Croatia this year in this Parliament, after following a long and difficult path.
I hope that European elections can take place in Croatia either next year or the year after and that Croatian Members will join us here in Parliament and help to prepare for the accession of other southern European states, with Macedonia being the first in line.
I want to congratulate them on this and say that these three reports which we are discussing today were adopted by a huge majority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
They are mainly linked to the fact that the European Parliament cannot and will not close its eyes to a whole series of issues related to the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria supporting the protection of fundamental rights, media freedom and freedom of association, as well as the protection of minorities' rights, good neighbourly relations, etc.
The agreement reached with Slovenia is extremely important, but we call for its ratification as soon as possible so that it will provide the opportunity for the negotiations with Croatia to be concluded by the end of this year.
We also hope that the new Greek Government will find a solution to the name issue so that Macedonia can receive a date for starting negotiations by this year.
As far as Turkey is concerned, the Cyprus question cannot be avoided.
With the Resolution on Croatia, which Parliament is to adopt here today, we will recognise that this country has made progress in terms of fulfilling the criteria for accession to the European Union, carrying out democratic system reforms and harmonising its legislation with the requirements of the acquis.
We are very pleased to note that Mrs Kosor, the new Croatian Prime Minister, has quickly and successfully taken steps in the areas where we have met the greatest obstacles so far: in the fight against corruption and organised crime, in implementing a programme of administrative reform, in addressing war crimes and in ensuring legal or constitutional protection for ethnic and other minorities.
By signing a border arbitration agreement with its neighbour Slovenia, the new Croatian Government has not only eliminated an obstacle to the negotiating process, but has also paved the way for the resolution of other issues.
It is important that Croatia continues to address border disputes with its other neighbours and ensures that these negotiations are conducted in good faith and according to the principle of pacta sunt servanda.
I should also point out that this resolution, which was drafted under the excellent guidance of my fellow member and rapporteur, Hannes Swoboda, has, in an objective and positive way, also highlighted problem areas where Croatia still has a great deal of work to do.
To name but a few, these include cooperation with the Hague Tribunal, efforts made so far in prosecuting corruption, restructuring the economy and finances and greater commitment and sincerity in eliminating the obstacles to the return of Croatia's Serbian population.
The positive reports on the progress of Croatia and FYROM should also be seen as a definite signal of the EU's openness to enlargement to all the countries in the Western Balkans and a confirmation of the commitments we have undertaken towards these countries, Turkey included, provided they meet all relevant criteria.
We think that would have made more sense instead of having them all mixed up together, but that is a side note. (DE) The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of Croatia joining the European Union quickly and we welcome very much the rapid progress which this country has made.
Croatia's quick accession will send out an important signal on security policy to the entire Western Balkans.
It means that the promise of membership made by European Heads of State or Government in Thessaloniki to all the countries in the Western Balkans still holds.
The credibility and validity of this promise represent an enormous incentive for all the states in the region to implement far-reaching reforms which will make these countries more secure, more stable and more prosperous.
It is important to say with regard to Croatia that the civil service there must be strengthened and made more transparent.
The same applies to the judiciary and the particularly important chapter concerning the judicial system that has not yet been negotiated.
The announcements made by the Croatian Government are a good thing, but they must be followed by action that brings about de facto improvements in the situation in the courts.
We would like to see more transparency and less political influence in this area as well.
The first concerns the fight against corruption.
Secondly, we would like a reference in paragraph 19 to the fact that the situation of gay men and lesbians is unsatisfactory.
There have been repeated attacks on people from these minority groups.
Therefore, we would like to call on you to support our Amendment 7.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the ECR Group favours enlargement of the European Union.
However, candidates must be subject to rigorous and exacting standards as laid out in the Copenhagen criteria.
We therefore fully endorse the Commission's thorough approach to preparing candidates for membership and its willingness to learn the lessons of previous enlargements, in particular, the most recent ones to Bulgaria and Romania, where there were outstanding problems in the areas of organised crime and corruption.
Croatia, along with Iceland - if approved as a candidate - is undoubtedly the country most ready to join the European Union, and its accession will help stabilise the Western Balkans.
As the Commission report makes clear, Croatia has also made some substantial progress in meeting the negotiating benchmarks, and the country's commitment to the EU's expectations remains strong.
The ECR Group believes that the almost comical name dispute with Greece should be resolved sensibly and rapidly.
The recent horrifying case of a teenage girl buried alive for talking to boys simply gives ammunition to those who say that Turkey has no place in the European Union.
Finding a real political solution to the Kurdish problem, recognising the Armenian genocide, normalising relations with neighbouring countries and ending the occupation of Cyprus are some of the issues which Turkey is required to address.
As emphasised by the Council, it needs, urgently and without further delay, to comply fully and without discrimination with the additional protocol to the Ankara Agreement.
In ignoring international law, Turkey is preventing the Republic of Cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone.
If we want a solution to the Cyprus question, we must underline Turkey's responsibilities.
However, it is the integration of Turkey into the European Union that we support, not the integration of the European Union into Turkey.
At the risk of upsetting Turkish diplomats again - note their reaction to numerous European Parliament amendments - I urge the Council and the Commission to put the following five points on the agenda in the forthcoming negotiations with the Turkish authorities. 1.
A Turkish academic recently spoke of a poisoned atmosphere.
As a NATO member and EU candidate country, Turkey must nail its colours to the mast.
I call on the Council and the Commission to take the Copenhagen criteria and the urgent criticisms of Turkey that I have mentioned seriously and, Commissioner, once again, I would like to wish you all the best in your new role.
I look forward to constructive consultation and I also have faith that you will take the Copenhagen criteria seriously and that we will thus be able to work on modernising Turkey, a country that I also want to respect. (NL) Mr Füle, welcome to the House!
Mr President, the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV), my party, has chosen to operate independently in this Parliament.
Next, I want to mention the negotiations with Turkey.
We should not allow that to happen, for which reason I have tabled Amendments 18 and 19, which aim to bring an end to the accession negotiations.
The European People's Party considers that FYROM went through many positive developments during the last year.
The progress it made in fulfilling most of the criteria towards starting EU accession negotiations is indeed both significant and remarkable.
The fact that the Commission has recommended the opening of negotiations with FYROM should be seen as a clear message that this country is on the right track.
Parliament should therefore stand firmly behind this recommendation and, by adopting this resolution, send a positive signal to the country and indeed the whole region.
I hope the European Council will confirm the Commission's decision and the call included in this resolution, and will give the green light for negotiations with FYROM in the near future without further delay.
It should be a positive message, one of good will, but it should also be rigorous so as to boost the negotiating process and stimulate the advancement of modernising, democratic reforms in Turkey.
This objective has only been achieved as a result of close collaboration with the EU Member States.
We must make use of the momentum generated by the Council decision in December and by the new Greek Government.
In Montenegro, for example, the existence of homosexuality is finally being recognised.
In Turkey, the shelters for women have finally succeeded in achieving good relations with the police, to name just two examples.
The European Parliament and the Member States must continue to insist on the criteria that we laid down at the beginning of the process.
We also all agree that the EU must provide all possible support in this process.
Bilateral problems, in themselves, should not represent an obstacle to the accession process.
I therefore ask you all to also vote in favour of our amendment, Amendment 4, which aims to insert a new paragraph 30(2) into the report on Macedonia.
I also ask you all to really bear in mind, in respect of these three reports, how very important the accession process is. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr Füle, on your election to this capacity.
I am sure that you will complete the negotiation process of the European Union with Croatia before the end of the year.
In this speech, I would like to stress the exceptional role of Croatia as a future Member State of the European Union, particularly in the context of the defence of our common values and the security of our continent.
Our new ally has bravely supported our fight against terrorism in several NATO missions.
I am certain that Croatia's membership of the European Union will contribute to continued stability in a part of Europe which only a few years ago experienced a cruel conflict and ethnic cleansing.
If Croatia completes all the reforms, it can finish negotiations with the European Union before the end of the year.
We should value the fact that Zagreb has carried out numerous reforms, especially in the area of the judicial system and public administration, and also concerning the fight against corruption and organised crime.
Bringing Croatia into the family of Member States of the European Union is part of our strategy to build a continent of democracy and prosperity.
The example of this Balkan country confirms that the process of European Union enlargement is a strong incentive to political and economic reform in countries which aspire to membership.
May I briefly remind the House of its political conduct towards Iran, its unacceptable diplomatic language against Israel, the dispute with Egypt on the Gaza borders and the Turkish Government's recent decision to abolish entry visas for 7 Arabic countries.
The issue of the abolition of visas, in particular, has outraged the secular state in Turkey.
The previous Commission promised that negotiations with Turkey would be suspended if it came to light that Turkey was failing in its democratic obligations and that the negotiations would have to keep pace with the reform process in Turkey.
I would like to say a few words about Turkey, firstly to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for the excellent results obtained in the committee.
Her report, which refers to 2008 and 2009, neither overstates nor underplays matters; it highlights the efforts Turkey is making to try to meet the Copenhagen conditions and criteria.
Turkey has to meet the conditions and requirements of the Copenhagen criteria and, obviously, it has to comply with the Ankara Protocol.
Mr President, first, could I repeat in public my own congratulations to Commissioner Füle.
We got you up early this morning on your first day in the job, and I think it will not be the only time that we do so.
But also to put the positive case for enlargement, to win over sceptic publics, and our group will support you in doing so.
On Turkey, the Socialist and Democrat Group remains pro-accession, pro-reform.
The Commission's progress report says that reform efforts have been resumed but should be intensified.
So, on this first report during the five years of this Parliament, let me focus my opening remarks on how we as a Parliament should deal with Turkey.
But the real test of your rapporteurship and for this Parliament is to ensure that we use our influence to secure, year by year, steady progress in shepherding Turkey towards accession, and that requires leadership here as well as in the country.
In our group, we have sought to include you fully in our consensus, but we are determined at this crucial time to seek to take positions which support reconciliation efforts to provide justice to both communities and not to prejudge their outcome on behalf of either side.
Finally, to the majority of this House who want Turkey's accession, we have to say so again and again.
These reforms are good in their own right, but, those of us who say in this Parliament we want accession: we have to make their pain worthwhile by ourselves doing what we say, opening and closing chapters on merit, delivering the promises of the Council, ourselves acting in good faith. (RO) I am only going to refer to Macedonia in my speech as I want to stress that the report records progress in Macedonia's situation and supports a political decision to launch negotiations with this country.
The exit polls and opinion polls in Macedonia highlight that this country is one of the most 'Euro-optimistic' in the region.
Secondly, I think that, as a Member State of the European Union, Greece must understand the European models for reconciling with history and make every effort to ensure that the dispute over the name of Macedonia does not present an obstacle to this country's progress towards Europe, because any other attitude is contrary to the spirit and destiny of Europe. (FR) Mr President, firstly, I should like to welcome and congratulate Commissioner Füle.
The 12th hearing of the trial of the alleged assassins of Hrant Dink was held in Istanbul on Monday.
I am telling you this because things are moving forward and because, within Turkish civil society, there is a desire and a movement for reform aimed at promoting democracy and rights, and this desire and this movement are exceptionally powerful.
I should also like to cite another example which is making the headlines in the newspapers at the moment -family honour crimes have already been mentioned - and that is the young 16-year-old girl who was found buried in a chicken pen and who had been sentenced by the family council for having spoken to boys.
The members of that family will obviously have to be put in prison.
I believe that our process must be totally sincere.
Today, the EU must say clearly to Cyprus that we are ready to support and to guarantee, using all the means at our disposal, economic and financial means included, any agreement reached between the north and the south and that we are also determined to ensure that nothing in the body of EU law can hinder the achievement of a consensus in Cyprus.
I am sure all of us want good relations with Turkey and many of us, probably the majority, wish to see Turkey one day as a member of the European Union, a different European Union to what is being developed today.
It is because some recognise that Turkish accession would inevitably change the nature of the EU project, driving as it is towards unwanted political integration, that they are so resistant to it.
It is scandalous that no real progress has been made in opening international trade with Northern Cyprus.
Of all the places in the world where the EU might actually play a useful role and exert some benign influence, Cyprus stands out - yet we are absent.
Let us not blame Turkey for the EU's internal difficulties. (EL) Mr President, our stand against the enlargement of the European Union is consistent with our stand against the integration of Greece, my country, into the European Union and with the fight to free it from this imperialist machine.
At the same time, there is an unbelievable crisis in the area of the Balkans, obviously caused by the reforms to which the people in these counties have been subjected in order to accede to the European Union.
We must also remember that with Turkey in the European Union, we will have countries such as Iraq, Iran and Syria on our borders.
Lastly, we must also remember that Turkey, with its 90 million inhabitants, will be the most populated country in the European Union by 2030.
I welcome those colleagues who have asked for proactive support for Cyprus in reaching some sort of resolution with Turkey.
Since I became an MEP in July, I have been contacted by many constituents who have invested substantial sums of money in properties, ranging from EUR 50 000 to EUR 150 000, and who have subsequently lost out on that investment in what, in many cases, looks like blatant fraudulent activity.
I would request that the Commission look into this and act proactively in relation to it. (DE) Mr President, Mr López Garrido, Commissioner, until now, the enlargement policy has been successful, although as we have seen in the last round, we must focus more closely in particular on the internal developments in these countries with regard to the rule of law, corruption and similar issues.
However, it is, of course, important that the Copenhagen criteria are met in every case, including the integration capacity of the European Union, because we must be aware of the risk of overstretching ourselves.
I have problems with Turkey when I look at its behaviour towards Berlin and when I consider Cyprus, religious freedom, freedom of opinion, the ban on political parties and similar issues.
Can I reinforce that the Copenhagen criteria are non-negotiable, especially when it comes to minority rights and human rights, and Macedonia and Croatia are therefore failing to reflect the Community acquis, especially as regards non-discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation.
On Turkey, there has been progress, and I am pleased to quote Ban Ki-moon, who says that there has been progress on Cyprus.
However, I would like to discuss the subject of Turkey.
Other speakers have said that Turkey is a society in motion and that is true.
If we look at the example of freedom of speech and opinion, it is true that there is a lively debate taking place on a number of topics which were previously taboo, including the rights of minorities and sexual minorities, Mr Cashman.
However, at the same time, there is the ban on YouTube and there are legal provisions which create a framework that generates legal uncertainty about the question of freedom of speech and opinion, which is particularly important to the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
There is also the 'private war' against the Doğan group.
Another example is that of the role of women.
I simply referred to the fact that the United Kingdom opted out of certain important areas of policy relating to European integration, such as Schengen, the Euro, the Social Charter and - if I have understood this correctly - the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
You said that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wanted enlargement at any price.
It is quite clear to us that we are in favour of enlargement, including Turkey and the Balkans, of course, but only if all the criteria are met.
On the subject of Turkey, I would like to say that, despite all the problems that have been referred to today, I believe that the Turkish Government has the will to continue.
This is very important.
However, he does not want Euro-bureaucracy to come between that Europe and its citizens.
The accession of Croatia, a European country with a European culture and a European history, should be accomplished as quickly as possible.
However, let us also think realistically about receiving into membership as quickly as possible countries such as Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I refer to the report on FYROM in which, where the rapporteur does not unilaterally resolve the name issue, as in paragraph 17, he systematically avoids stating that the solution is being sought and must be sought within the UN.
As far as Turkey is concerned, I get the feeling that we are playing hide and seek in this area.
The Turkish authorities outwardly declare efforts to change but in the real world, there is little change in society.
We also know that FYROM and Greece need to reach an agreement on the name issue so that these negotiations can begin.
The name issue is a real political issue in Greece.
Irrespective of how colleagues judge this issue, if we want to be good advisers, we must give FYROM friendly, flexible advice.
This will certainly represent a major step forward in the direction of European integration for the entire Western Balkans region.
I hope 2010 will be a very good year for Croatia and for the Western Balkans too, but I would also like to underline the necessity of considering and adequately addressing the issue of refugees and the internally displaced persons.
The agreement was aimed at sorting out the problem of the very large numbers of refugees and internally displaced people deriving from the conflict in the region.
A final remark on Turkey: when evaluating Turkey, I would invite you not to let our prejudgment based on religion, ethnicity and clichés to speak. (SV) Mr President, as Vice-Chair of Parliament's Delegation to Croatia, I am looking forward to the day when we have Croatian members sitting on the benches in this Parliament.
Croatia has come a long way in its efforts to achieve membership and has taken many difficult decisions in order to deal with the European dimension.
One matter that is very close to my heart is decentralisation; in other words, political decisions being taken as close to the people as possible.
When we add a fourth level of decision making, such as in the case of EU membership, it is incredibly important that people are aware of which decisions are to be taken at local, regional, national and EU level.
Other outstanding weak points are legal certainty, the fight against corruption and the position of women in the labour market - areas in which Croatia must make greater efforts.
I really hope that it will not be long before we have our Croatian colleagues with us in this Parliament. (EL) Mr President, I should like to point out that the Balkans are trying today, as they did for the whole of the 20th century, to strike a balance between the difficult heritage of nationalism and the need for common European prospects in the immediate future.
However, I would point out that any form of nationalism damages its own country first.
This sort of compromise would be a catalyst for building the mutual trust which is vitally necessary in these times of ecological crisis, when immediate neighbours must be seen as necessary collaborators in combating it. (CS) I would like to begin by thanking all of my fellow Members for producing the entire report.
I have only three comments, since much has been said here already in the debate.
In my opinion, we must take a comprehensive view of the Balkan issue and we cannot focus on just one specific country, be it Croatia or Macedonia, but we should be dealing with the issue of a comprehensive approach involving countries, for example, such as Serbia.
In the case of Turkey, too, we must give a clear 'yes' or 'no' as it is not possible to pull the wool over Turkey's eyes and to promise possible future membership.
It cannot continue to occupy the city of Famagusta in breach of the United Nations Security Council Resolution.
That is the message that should be conveyed at this critical point in negotiations over the reunification of Cyprus, which is a Member State of the European Union. (EL) Mr President, I do not overlook the fact that Turkey is a large country which, however, apart from the internal social problems noted in the report, acts - in my opinion - in a contradictory manner in its foreign policy.
Thus, while the Turkish Government is trying to present itself as moderate, the armed forces of the country appear to be aggressive both towards Greece, constantly violating Greek airspace in the Aegean, and constantly harassing Frontex.
It should be noted that, despite the fact that Greece and Turkey are NATO countries, and so are allies, Turkey is threatening Greece with a casus belli in terms of extending its territorial waters and by refusing to recognise the state of Cyprus, which is a member of the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Swoboda for his report on Croatia; it recognises the efforts and achievements made by the Croatian Government.
I think it is important to say that this country is now coming closer to membership, which underlines - and I say this to the Presidency of the Council - that there is a need to finalise the negotiations with Croatia during 2010.
But I think it is also worth underlining the message that the efforts made by Croatia have not been done for us.
The same applies to other candidate countries.
When we close the door, we are running the risk of new problems and new threats to European values; we should underline the need to go forward together in order to achieve a better European enlargement based on the criteria we fully support. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, concluding negotiations with Croatia during 2010 is a feasible aim and the Swoboda report is a balanced examination of our progress and the steps we still need to take.
I do hope that the Commission is going to respond to the several speakers who brought up the Cypriot question as part of its response to the debate. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we wish to back the membership of Croatia and this is why we call on the Croatian authorities to ensure that the assets nationalised to Italian citizens at the end of World War II, and still owned by state or municipal institutions, despite the requirements of European law, should be returned to their legitimate owners.
I believe that it is extremely important to use appropriate political wisdom, courage and mutual good will to solve these issues, not only on the part of these candidate countries, but also on the part of the Member States of the European Union.
This happened in the case of Croatia, and I truly hope that the commitment of the Spanish Presidency will also boost progress in the name issue affecting Macedonia and Greece.
As the third member of the Trio Presidency, Hungary would like to continue and assist with this process. (DE) Madam President, firstly, congratulations to Mr Füle on his appointment as Commissioner.
At the same time, it clearly indicates the areas where Croatia still has work to do in order to be able to complete the accession process.
It is also significant that statistics taken from a Eurobarometer survey carried out in the autumn of last year show that 84% of Croats are dissatisfied with democracy in their country.
This means that not only are reforms to the judiciary required, but also an improvement in the situation of minorities.
It is also important to ensure that the freedom of the press is guaranteed.
In formal terms, the criteria can certainly be met very quickly, but the entire population must be behind the process and must welcome Croatia's accession to the EU. (PL) Madam President, the accession of Turkey to the European Union is a cause of much controversy in some circles.
Fulfilment of strict but clear conditions, which are understandable and accepted by both sides, is the basis for reception of new members, and this also applies to Turkey.
I would now like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, for a comprehensive report on Turkey's progress in 2009.
On the other hand, Turkey is putting great effort into the negotiations which have been started, and I welcome the changes and Turkey's desire to continue reforms in order to meet the Copenhagen criteria.
However, good intentions are not everything.
Ankara still has many challenges ahead on the road to membership of the European Union, and those challenges are not easy.
I trust that Turkey will manage to overcome all the obstacles, and I wish the country success in reforming itself. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia's membership of the European Union accentuates the gelling of a European identity that is able to express the common values of our new Europe while incorporating, rather than glossing over, the individualities of its many occupants.
The rapporteur has submitted a very balanced draft resolution.
The Turkish Government must ensure, as a matter of urgency, that transgender killings no longer go unpunished.
Furthermore, I appeal once again to the Turkish Government to ensure freedom of association and put an end to the systematic attempts to close down LGTB organisations.
The resolution rightly urges freedom of religion and freedom of expression.
Homophobia, compulsory religious education and restrictions of freedom of the press must equally be fought in the current Member States. (RO) As is also highlighted in the Oomen-Ruijten report, in 2009, Turkey made a clear commitment to the path of reform and good relations with its neighbours.
Furthermore, the authorities have encouraged public debate on certain areas of key importance to the reform process such as: the role of the judiciary, the rights of ethnic minorities and the role of the army in this country's political life.
On the other hand, the signing of the Nabucco agreement has shown Turkey's involvement in creating a secure gas supply within Europe, as is also demonstrated by Turkey's negotiations to join the European Energy Community.
We certainly must not forget either its cooperation within the Black Sea Synergy launched three years ago with the aim of promoting stability and reforms in the countries around the Black Sea.
Finally, I would not like us to forget some of the fundamental reasons which advocate this country's accession to the European Union.
Turkey is clearly a member of the European family and is an important partner in the dialogue between civilisations.
Bringing a secular, democratic and modern Turkey closer to the European Union is certainly an asset for our community. (HU) I am very glad that the enlargement portfolio will be held by Commissioner Füle who, as a Central European politician, is best placed to understand the heavy burden that south-eastern Europe and the Western Balkans carry in terms of ethnic and interethnic conflicts and bilateral neighbourly disputes.
This was proved by the 2004 and 2007 accessions, as illustrated, for instance, by the significant positive effect on relations between Hungary and Romania.
Just look at the unresolved problem of Russians in Latvia, or at Slovakia, where the policies of the Fico Government have led to a souring of relations between the Slovak majority and the Hungarian minority.
Therefore, in the case of the Western Balkans, where such problems are even more complicated, it is particularly important to settle them in relation to each country.
Croatia is a neighbour country of Hungary, so it is of the utmost importance that Croatia becomes a member of the European Union as soon as possible.
However, there seems to me to be a difference between the text adopted last year and the one that is now being proposed to us on Turkey.
Parliament, in its 2009 resolution, highlighted the negotiations in Cyprus but did not set any preconditions associated with the colonies or the Famagusta situation.
These issues are dealt with in the six negotiating chapters which are being handled under the auspices of the UN.
I therefore think that Parliament's taking such a strong, one-sided position may harm these negotiations and render us partisan.
As the former commissioner emphasised on 16 November 2006, the restitution of Famagusta to its legitimate inhabitants is an issue which will have to be dealt with under the auspices of the UN, as part of an overall settlement of the Cyprus issue.
Everybody will be pleased by the progress that Croatia is making in the completion of its accession process.
That may turn out to be the harder task. (EL) Madam President, the three reports we are debating today express the European Parliament's firm position on the continuing enlargement process.
May I start by congratulating Hannes Swoboda on his report on Croatia.
As far as Turkey is concerned, the message from the exceptionally balanced report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten remains the same as in previous years.
Turkey needs to honour all its contractual obligations, as all previous candidate countries have done.
Turkey is a large country, which needs to accept that continuing reform, respect for human rights, proper help in resolving the Cyprus question, good neighbourly relations and removing the casus belli against a Member State are the steps that will bring it closer to the Union.
Greece, for its part, calls on the leaders of FYROM to come to the negotiating table in good faith, so that a jointly acceptable solution can be found within the framework of the UN.
The Greek Government knows that the process requires new momentum and is genuinely determined that the issue be resolved.
We expect an equally honest stand from the other side. (BG) Madam President, Commissioner Füle, welcome to the House.
I strongly hope that the Accession Treaty for this country will be signed by this year.
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has made progress in meeting the criteria for initiating the pre-accession process.
The European Council is expected to reaffirm the European Commission's decision made at the end of last year and launch the accession process.
For this to happen, I believe that the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia needs to make further efforts to resolve problems with its neighbours in a European spirit.
If the authorities in Skopje have the political will not to use history, whether ancient or more recent, and to argue about current political or national intentions, a compromise can be reached.
They must not contain descriptions inciting a hostile attitude towards other Member States.
I come from a neighbouring country, Bulgaria, and we, as neighbouring countries, see some worrying trends.
Secondly, affirming national identity should not lead to xenophobic feelings towards citizens who declare themselves to be of Bulgarian origin.
In the Western Balkans in particular, these people have a right to a better fate and a proper share of real European values.
You have already made it clear to the committee that the negotiations with Turkey are about its accession and not about the crazy idea of a privileged partnership, which has never been adequately publicised by those in favour of it.
However, you have also made it clear - and we welcomed this very much - that both sides, Turkey and the European Union, must meet their obligations and undertakings.
In this case, Mr Posselt, the principle of pacta sunt servanda applies.
Of course, Turkey still has a great deal to do, but so does the European Union, whether it concerns the issue of Cyprus, the implementation of minority rights in Turkey or the political and military aspects.
However, the Treaty of Lisbon will also have brought about lasting changes to the European Union.
As I have said, both sides must fulfil their undertakings. (SL) If the European Union genuinely wants to play a more powerful role on the international stage, it must ensure it strengthens its role within Europe as well.
I am pleased that we are able to welcome the progress of all three countries discussed here and I congratulate rapporteurs Ria Oomen-Ruijten, Zoran Thaler and Hannes Swoboda on a job well done.
I am particularly pleased that all three countries have paid particular attention to developing relations with their neighbours.
Mention has also been made of the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia.
It is a fact that the Croatian and Slovene Governments see the key issue of this agreement in a totally different light, which does not exactly inspire mutual confidence.
Turkey and Cyprus are neighbours.
In order to ensure that all the people who live on Cyprus are once again truly able to live together, a solution is needed that requires all the neighbours to play their part.
This Parliament has an important job to do in making a positive contribution to the situation on Cyprus, searching constructively for solutions and clearing obstacles instead of erecting them.
All the affected parties must play their part in creating a positive atmosphere in which a reliable solution can be found.
As Member States, we must be careful to ensure that we are not part of the problem, but that we instead contribute to finding a solution.
We need to make an effort, here, to see the EU's most important export products flourish: democracy, human rights, peace and security. (SK) Croatia is demonstrating its determination to join the EU by taking clear steps towards fulfilling the criteria.
Political will has been reflected in reforms of the public administration and judiciary and in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
One significant factor is the continuing exposure of war crimes, in which Croatia is fully cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal.
It is undergoing significant legislative and institutional changes with the aim of combating organised crime and the mafia and strengthening cross-border cooperation with law-enforcement authorities in neighbouring countries.
I would also like to congratulate the new commissioner, Mr Füle, and welcome him to the role.
In the case of Turkey, I would particularly like to highlight how important it is for the rate of reforms - which are also necessary for Turkey itself - to be maintained and even increased.
I was somewhat surprised by this because a candidate country should also be bringing its visa policy closer to that of the European Union, not moving in the opposite direction.
I would like confirmation of that information. (EL) Madam President, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has made a tremendous effort to present a balanced report and we thank her.
Amendments 13 and 14 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance upset this balance and I therefore urge you to vote against them.
The small country of Cyprus asks for nothing more and nothing less than a solution in keeping with the European acquis, without derogations, and with the UN resolutions.
The name issue is a purely bilateral question, even if the UN has given its help in this respect.
On the subject of Croatia, I would like to say that this country is combating corruption to such an extent that other countries, including some within the EU, should take an example from it.
The government is searching for the documents and it has set up a task force, but it cannot do more than look.
If it does not find anything, then it is important to take a step forward, in the light of the fact that Croatia has been cooperating with the tribunal for years and, therefore, has, to a large extent, met the conditions.
We know that the Ankara Protocol must definitely be implemented with regard to the Cyprus question.
However, it is also clear, as stated by the Council in 2004, that the isolation of Northern Cyprus must come to an end.
Madam President, for the new Commission - and I warmly welcome Commissioner Füle - now is the time to renew the EU's commitment to enlargement by completing accession negotiations with Croatia by the end of this year and starting negotiations with Macedonia.
I would like to invite both parties to solve the name issue in an open and generous European style, as advocated yesterday by President Barroso.
With a new Commissioner, there is no time to be lost in making Turkey start pulling its troops out of Cyprus and implementing the Ankara Protocol.
As for myself, I could feel comfortable with Turkish accession when it is as easy to build a Christian church in Ankara as it is to erect a mosque in Brussels. (DE) Madam President, I would like to comment on two aspects of the Turkish issue.
There is still work to be done in this area and some difficulties remain.
A democratic society must protect the rights of employees and trade unions and it is important to fight for these rights.
The Tekel employees, of whom 12 000 are currently on strike, are threatened with the loss of their jobs or have already lost them as a result of privatisation.
However, it is not only the Tekel employees who work in the tobacco industry.
If the process of cutting jobs and destroying whole sectors of industry continues as a result of privatisation, the people of Turkey will lose their enthusiasm for accession to the EU.
Mr Füle, apart from your work on the important countries we are talking about here today, I would like to ask you also to give attention to other countries which are dreaming of European Union membership.
It is that Croatia, the country which has currently made most progress in negotiations, might manage to accede to the European Union during the not-too-distant Polish Presidency. (DE) Madam President, once again, the report on Turkey is not a progress report, but a report on Turkey's failings.
Human rights, the rights of minorities and international law remain concepts that are foreign to Turkey.
In my view, the only honest response which is in line with the wishes of EU citizens would be to bring the accession negotiations to an end and to aim for a privileged partnership. (EL) Commissioner, we welcome you and wish you every success in your job.
Yesterday we debated the difficult economic situation faced by certain countries in the euro area, especially the critical situation faced by Greece.
This has to stop and this must be a strong message sent to Ankara by the European Parliament.
Being a lawyer, I would like to recall that, through the interim accord between Greece and FYROM signed in September 1995, Greece agreed not to object to FYROM's application to international or regional organisations if made under the name referred by the United Nations, which is FYROM.
The Union's institutions refer to this country as FYROM.
These provisions are legally binding in terms of international law.
Therefore, there is no legal basis for Greece to obstruct the country's accession process.
Decisions must be taken on the performance of the applicant country.
However, as far as Cyprus is concerned, there are many who insist on putting equal responsibility on the victim and the perpetrator.
It is clear that, if the solution does not respect the human rights of the citizens of Cyprus, then the entire system of values of the European Union is at risk.
As it is Turkey rather than any other country that we are evaluating, we call on Turkey to facilitate the process of talks by taking two self-evident steps: firstly, to immediately start withdrawing the occupying army and, secondly, to return the occupied town of Famagusta to its legal residents. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we acknowledge the efforts that Croatia has made in recent years to meet the requirements of European Union membership.
There nevertheless remains one unresolved matter that must be dealt with during the negotiations on bilateral matters between Croatia and Italy which risks casting a shadow over the accession process.
Cyprus and Greece are, and will remain, of the utmost importance to the European Union.
So, Commissioner, we therefore have to make it clear to our Turkish partners that it is very difficult to speak about Turkey's European integration until problems related to Turkey's religious and ethnic minorities are solved. (EL) Madam President, in today's debate, we need to arrive at clear messages to Turkey, bearing in mind that it has not taken specific action to resolve various problems with neighbouring countries.
As regards the Cyprus question, in particular, given that we have heard proposals to include a reference to the problem of the isolation of Turkish Cypriots in the report, I think that the European Union should and must act within the framework of the UN resolutions.
At the same time, Turkey should withdraw the army, so as to remove this major obstacle to overall efforts being made to overcome the difficulty of contacting Turkish Cypriots. (SL) I congratulate all the rapporteurs on their balanced reports, and to you, Commissioner, I wish every possible success in taking up your important role.
I would like to point out that the Member States of the European Union are not communicating in the best possible way with the countries of the Western Balkans.
Let us be fair, let us be correct and let us be credible. (PL) Madam President, I realise how very difficult it is, in Turkey's social circumstances, for the government in Ankara to do anything to improve democracy and human rights.
In Turkey, we still have a problem with the obstacles faced by religious communities concerning their legal status.
I am very grateful to the rapporteur for emphasising all these aspects in the report.
My concern is that in 2003, the UK Independence Party, of which I am a member, stated in this Parliament that there would be dire consequences regarding migrants from new Member States coming to our country, the United Kingdom.
The United Kingdom is full.
The people in our country have been denied a vote on Lisbon.
I am convinced that we are now in a position where the whole European situation is about to crumble, with the euro and so forth.
If the answer is 'yes', Turkey has no place in the European Union.
Parliament could encourage the existing Member States to set a good example by establishing standards for the protection of minorities that are to be mandatory for the entire territory of the Union. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, the year 2009, according to a report prepared by the International Crisis Group, was to have been decisive for Turkey's integration with the European Union.
The Spanish Presidency, it is true, is saying it wants Ankara to join the Community as soon as possible, but indications are growing that Ankara is redefining its place in the global order, and that its membership in the Community is not a priority.
Lifting of visas for Jordan, Libya, Iran and Syria, a worsening of relations with Israel, a strengthening of relations with Sudan, the signing of an agreement to commence diplomatic relations with Armenia and blocking an understanding with Cyprus - all this shows that Ankara is increasingly orienting itself towards cooperation with its neighbours, even at the expense of weakening its position in the accession negotiations.
I appeal, therefore, to the Commission and the Council to redefine Turkey's perspectives for membership of the European Union. (SV) Madam President, I believe that it is extremely important that the progress being made by the candidate countries that are involved in negotiations is also recognised and stressed.
I believe that to be very important in purely psychological terms.
Moreover, it cannot be denied that negotiations with the EU have created better conditions for the people of these countries.
I am sure we all agree that Turkey needs to make considerable efforts and that freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the press go without saying.
However, I think it also needs to be stated that the negotiations with Turkey are not just negotiations with the state or nation of Turkey, but that Turkey also represents a kind of key or a bridge to the whole region.
I would like this Parliament and the new Commission to try and contribute with a solution to the name issue, not by stimulating the nationalistic tendencies of the FYROM Government, but by supporting the Greek view, which fights for a gentle compromise that would, finally, seem to satisfy the people of FYROM more than the people of Greece. (LT) Today's debates have shown that although MEPs have differing opinions on Turkey's progress, we probably all agree that the basic prerequisite for EU membership is the appropriate implementation of fundamental reforms.
However, we must give Turkey an opportunity to review its actions and hope that in the future, Turkey will be a democratic and free country. (RO) Croatia continues to be at the most advanced stage among the Western Balkan states on their path to EU accession.
It may provide an example for states in the region with regard to their accession prospects in terms of meeting the accession criteria and conditions.
We support Croatia's accession to the European Union, provided that this is based on strict compliance with the accession criteria, including full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
We are confident that we will be in the position next year to vote on the treaty for Croatia's accession to the European Union, which will be a positive signal for the whole region. (SL) Commissioner, I congratulate you on your new post and I hope that you will be successful in this area.
I am very pleased that the three reports are positive and that the rapporteurs have found these countries to have made progress in terms of modernisation, as we see it from the European perspective.
Europe must be strict about this and it must also be strict in urging these countries to resolve relations with their neighbours.
I would also like to point out that I will not be giving my backing to the report on Croatia, primarily because it does not treat Slovenia fairly. (RO) The most effective external enlargement policy the European Union has with regard to the Western Balkans is to expand in this region.
I think that these instruments must be considered by the European Commission and the governments of Croatia and Macedonia. (NL) I actually wanted to ask the leader of the Turkish delegation, Mrs Flautre, a question.
I think we can say that the large majority of you has spoken in favour of the enlargement process as an essential part of European integration.
This, therefore, is how we should measure respect for human rights and, as a result, compliance with the Copenhagen criteria.
As regards Croatia, we have also had general agreement on the need to open new chapters as soon possible, but it should be said that currently 28 out of 35 chapters have already been opened and that 17 of those have provisionally closed.
The Spanish Presidency will continue to work to achieve new progress in the negotiations, together with the European Council and the Council, in order to bring them to their final phase soon.
Obviously the name is not one of the Copenhagen requirements, but clearly good, neighbourly relations play a vital role in the process of shaping national policy in all the candidate countries.
Cyprus has also been the subject of a great many speeches.
On 8 December 2009, the Council adopted conclusions in which it was stated that if no progress were made on the issue, then the Council would maintain the measures adopted in 2006, which would have a permanent effect on the negotiations' overall progress.
The Council's 8 December conclusions, which I have mentioned many times, sent Turkey a message on that matter.
In talking to the candidate countries and the prospective candidate countries, I always underlined the following four principles.
Secondly, a strict commitment to fundamental freedoms and rights, including religious and minority rights and, of course, women's rights.
On Croatia, both Parliament's resolution and the Commission's position underline that Croatia can count on Parliament and the Commission as reliable allies.
The Commission, and I trust the current and future presidencies as well as the European Parliament, will support Croatia in reaching its goal.
On the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, let me stress once again that the country earned a Commission recommendation to start accession negotiations on the basis of its own merits.
On Turkey, we are all aware that we do not have an easy way ahead of us, either for Turkey or for the European Union, as was clearly stated by many during the debate.
We are implementing the EUR 259 million aid package for the sustainable social and economic development of the Turkish-Cypriot community and its full participation in the European Union following a settlement and reunification.
The Commission remains committed to the accession process with Turkey.
Our leverage and influence in Turkey will become all the more credible and stronger if our commitments remain unambiguous.
I recall that in December 2006, negotiations were partially suspended due to the country's refusal to apply the Customs Union with the EU to Cyprus.
The Turkish Government continues to demonstrate the political will to proceed with reforms, and it has substantially increased fundamental freedoms and democratic development within the country.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report certainly contains some interesting points, even for those, like myself and many of you, who are against granting Turkey EU membership.
Certain passages of the resolution proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs are also quite strict.
Those who, like myself, are opposed to Ankara joining the EU find in them confirmation of their own traditional objections to the accession: in Turkey, there are still restrictions on fundamental freedoms, human rights violations, an aggressive attitude towards Cyprus and Greece, and discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities - all of which are problems that Europe clearly cannot ignore.
For the purposes of comparison: under current conditions, the expenditure for Turkey up to 2025 would be around EUR 10 billion, while for all 10 of the new Member States in the 'eastern expansion' it would be up to EUR 8 billion.
For these reasons, we must discuss again and in greater detail Turkey's accession to the EU, together with related reforms to the CAP.
I very much welcome the fact that the presidential and local elections in March 2009 went smoothly.
Macedonia has met all the criteria for liberalising the visa regulations and, therefore, from 19 December 2009 onwards, its citizens have visa-free status.
However, Macedonia still has a number of reforms to implement.
I very much hope that we can use the experience which we gathered during the first phase of the eastern enlargement of the EU to help it in this process.
I hope that, at the beginning of 2012, when I take my seat in the European Parliament, I will be able to shake hands with fellow Members from Croatia.
I welcome the progress made by Croatia, in particular, in combating corruption.
Measures must be taken against corruption within the institutions.
Madam President, with reference to my speech on 20 January, I am interested in what kind of measures the Turkish Government has implemented, according to the records of the Council and the Commission, to involve the population in the implementation of the democratisation process and the reforms necessary for integration with the European Union.
Turkey's 2009 development report points out shortcomings in the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria, with a particular emphasis on political criteria, which include the implementation of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and the protection of the rights of minorities.
In the development report, it was noted that, through the development aid instrument, EUR 567 million have been allocated to Turkey in the past year.
The allocations were, for the most part, aimed at implementing outstanding reforms in the political and justice systems, as well as the development of civil society.
At the same time, it was made clear that the use of these instruments had been decentralised, which means that the Turkish authorities administered the allocated aid, following the Commission's accreditation.
Since they are interested in carrying out the membership negotiations for Turkey as quickly as possible, which means that the current shortcomings need to be resolved, the Council and the Commission should have an accurate synopsis of concrete actions by the Turkish Government carried out in order to achieve this objective.
When a number of countries in Central and Eastern Europe acceded to the European Union on the day of its great enlargement on 1 May 2004, the division of Europe by the Iron Curtain was finally brought to an end.
It also then became clear that the 'great enlargement' would have to be continued, with the accession of several more countries of the region.
In 2007, Rumania and Bulgaria became Member States of the European Union.
I fully support completion of negotiations by Croatia as quickly as possible in order to achieve the quickest possible accession of the country to the European Union.
In addition, I appeal to the Croatian side to increase efforts at accommodating Community requirements in such areas as the organisation of public administration and the judiciary and for improvement of mechanisms concerned with the effective fight against organised crime and corruption.
As a prerequisite for completing the negotiation process begun with Turkey in 2005, Turkey must fulfil all the Copenhagen criteria, and it must comply in all respects with EU integration capacity.
This is why Turkey must step up the reform process in order to meet the commitments it has assumed.
Progress has been made on environmental protection, especially with the signing of the Kyoto Protocol in this 'era of adapting to the effects of climate change'.
However, a great deal still remains to be done in terms of water quality, nature conservation and GMOs (genetically modified organisms).
The press is currently highlighting the case of 16-year-old Medine Memi, who was cruelly murdered by her own father and grandfather.
I welcome the call made by the rapporteur to harmonise energy policies between Turkey and the EU, in particular, by opening accession negotiations on the energy chapter and by including Turkey in the European Energy Community.
