Ukraine (debate) The next item is the statement by the Commission on behalf of the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on Ukraine.
I would first like to give the floor to Commissioner De Gucht on behalf of the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Baroness Ashton.
It is a privilege, but also a responsibility and it will give Ukraine the opportunity to live up to expectations, which are certainly high.
I want to dwell now on our bilateral relations, marked last Monday by a summit at the Château Val Duchesse in Brussels, attended by President Yanukovych, as well as by Presidents Van Rompuy and Barroso.
Cathy Ashton took part in the discussion on international issues.
Agreements have been entered into with the IMF and important reforms have been introduced in the key energy sector.
So it is the 1996 constitution, which gives increased power to the President, which once again applies.
This very controversial decision is evidence that an open and participative constitutional reform process is needed in Ukraine.
It is therefore regrettable to note that the latest municipal elections held on 31 October were criticised by most observers.
On the other hand, I am pleased that vital progress was made on important matters at the summit on Monday.
We must ask all political players in Ukraine to avoid presenting this resolution as a victory of one against another.
On the other hand, any debate on Ukraine has a tendency to become a war between the European political families of the opposition and government political parties of Ukraine.
It is primarily about what Ukraine needs to do for itself, because both institutional and economic reforms are a prerequisite for a prosperous democratic future, and this is in the Ukrainian citizens' best interest.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, large protests have been taking place in Kiev, Lugansk, Kharkov and many other large and small towns in Ukraine.
Thank you for your attention and I hope that we - including the Commission - will continue to show solidarity in our work together with this country, which is so close to us as Europeans.
Mr President, in the European Parliament, we have had several weeks of fascinating debate on Ukrainian affairs.
The results of our proceedings are being followed with great interest in Ukraine - greater than in many countries of the European Union.
Let us, therefore, treat our resolution as a letter, not to one or other party, but as a letter to Ukrainians, in which we will say sincerely that we are watching with interest what is happening, and that we are neighbours who are ready to open the door to Ukraine and who want more contact with the country's citizens.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Mr President, whenever Ukraine is mentioned, the average EU citizen thinks of the boxer Klitschko, easily defeating his opponents.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (NL) Mr President, the many, sometimes incredible, irregularities in the local and regional elections in Ukraine on 31 October must be a red flag for the European Union.
The European Union - and you can do this - should be taking a firm stance against this bad, undemocratic overture to the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary elections; maintaining our own political values in the face of authoritarian tendencies in Ukraine.
There has been too much of this, and this should not therefore be the principle that guides our actions in respect of Ukraine.
Sadly, the local elections have not lived up to our expectations.
However, I agree with Mrs Harms, who says that what we should do is not to look for support from one or other party, but to look at what the Ukrainians want and what we want.
The Ukrainians deserve our cooperation, our words of support and - as Mr Swoboda has said - this is regardless of whether it is this or that camp.
It opens up such a possibility, and at the same time ends a very important discussion which had been taking place on this subject in the European Parliament.
It is, in fact, about the quality of democracy, and about how much the European Parliament wants democracy in Ukraine to be of a high quality.
I also want these words to be heard by Yulia Tymoshenko, who is responsible for the opposition's image.
There is a similar problem at the commercial TV station Channel 5.
On the other hand, independent analytical centres in Ukraine have reported recently that out of 69 planned reforms, only four have been made.
Therefore it is really very important for us to continue to strive for close cooperation, in particular in the field of visa requirements.
We must find a way, as part of the visa policy, to ensure that these people, who with their ancestors have been cut off from their homeland for more than 300 years, have the opportunity to travel freely to Bulgaria and export our European ideals from there to Ukraine. (LT) Mr President, not so long ago, Ukraine was doubtless ahead of our other Eastern neighbours, in terms of the application of European standards, economic and legal reforms and the internal political process.
Thank you. (RO) Mr President, one important point in today's debate has been the criticism concerning the transparency and integrity of the local elections held on 31 October.
I really believe that if we, as the European Parliament and the European Union, want to have an influence in this specific matter then having an across-the-board agreement on the principles of such a position is very important.
So I welcome this on behalf of the Commission and on behalf of the High Representative.
It is precisely because Ukraine wishes to become a member of the EU one day that I am deeply concerned by the way in which the local elections passed off recently in this country.
The complicated nature of the situation in the country of our eastern neighbour is demonstrated by the very intensive discussion which took place recently in this Chamber.
It is certain that we cannot ignore the irregularities to which we were witnesses before and after the recent local elections, for these irregularities mean that Ukraine still does not come up to what we regard as the European standard in terms of political culture.
It is this compromise which should become the position of Parliament.
