Coordination of humanitarian aid and reconstruction in Haiti (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on coordination of humanitarian aid and reconstruction in Haiti.
The first is the continuation of humanitarian assistance and, in particular, shelter, sanitation and health services.
We are now replenishing them and building the capacity of the Haitian civil protection service, which has actually become stronger as a result of the crisis, so that they can make use of them.
With many actors in Haiti, this is no trivial challenge, but we have consistently been a very strong voice for UN-led humanitarian coordination.
EU businesses have also been involved and also interim mechanisms for coordination, proposed under the leadership of Prime Minister Bellerive and Bill Clinton.
This week, I will sign five financial agreements for a total amount of more than EUR 200 million and I will also inaugurate some of the work we have already done like the rehabilitation of the road between Port-au-Prince and Cape Haitian, which is fully in line with the plan of action of the government and which also supports the 'whole-of-the-island' approach.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank both Commissioners.
Secondly, in relation to commitments we are making, I am very glad to hear what the Commissioner had to say about the EUR 200 million which he is forwarding almost immediately.
The reconstruction efforts are only just getting under way, as you told us.
This aid is to total EUR 11.5 billion, and it is worth underlining that the Haitian Government had been hoping for a sum of just under EUR 4 billion over the next two years.
The government in Haiti is very weak, and distribution of aid is largely in the hands of a diversified and very strange elite, and it is very important that international organisations and the European Union know to whom the money is really going.
The people of Europe themselves have been very generous when it comes to showing solidarity but, unfortunately, there is a great risk of people forgetting or being made to forget the tragedy that our Haitian brothers are suffering.
Yet, as you said, there is a sense of urgency: urgency, because other cyclones may occur and would make people's living conditions even worse; urgency, in terms of rebuilding houses and buildings, such as schools and hospitals, at a time when the Haitian Government is beginning to evacuate certain camps; urgency, in terms of coordinating and distributing food aid and care more effectively; and urgency, too, in terms of developing a new sustainable agricultural and rural project to ensure Haiti's food security.
We need to make a significant investment in local agriculture if we are to guarantee food security.
The earthquake in Haiti has resulted in a surge of solidarity and fraternity on an exceptional and very justified scale.
For the first time, the European Union spoke with one voice through Baroness Ashton.
The agricultural sector has to be a priority, and we must strengthen the country's agricultural production capacities.
We have a climate debt towards vulnerable countries and we must learn from our mistakes in dealing with the crisis in Haiti so that we can respond to our increasing global obligations in future. (NL) Mr President, Commissioners Georgieva and Piebalgs, after the enormous tragedy in Haiti, we need to look to the future, as you have both noted.
My second question to you both is: what is your assessment of the Haitian Government's action plan and can you ensure that the significant funds that have been pledged will be used effectively?
We also have to make sure that we do not make obsolete the progress that we are now making in Haiti by having other EU policies in place which will actually prevent progress from happening in Haiti and elsewhere.
We really have to stick to policy coherence so that we do not have success in Haiti only to have all our progress ruined because of other harmful policies. (FI) Mr President, the EU has helped Haiti, which is a good thing, but this disaster has clearly shown, in my opinion, that the EU must have rapid reaction groups for humanitarian action, and that we must develop civilian crisis management.
While this help is certainly important, the EU is currently lacking the capacity for local help and rapid help.
This has been very useful and very encouraging for us.
On 26 April, we will have a chance in the Development Committee to discuss in more detail the work programme, which includes, for 2010, strengthening the response capacity and a communication on this topic.
This is really important because if we move too quickly to reconstruction, away from support for people in need, we risk a very serious tragedy.
This is something we are watching very closely.
I certainly agree with you that what the World Bank is proposing about this coordination in the multi-donor trust fund, but also as an institutional project management approach, is something that we need to take to heart and follow.
The support of Parliament is very important for the Commission, because Haiti is not a case to which only the Commission is devoting attention.
We are working on the same bases and on well-prepared ground.
We have a land cadastre and we will work on it, but there could be risks.
The reconstruction effort can be sustained if there is a political process supporting the long-term development of Haiti and if people believe in it.
I believe that this can be put in place and could be successful.
There are many more people still working and trying to do their best.
The cataclysm in Haiti has, however, made me stop and think about a country which, actually, collapsed a long time ago.
