5th cohesion report and strategy for the post-2013 cohesion policy - Implementation of cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013 - European urban agenda and its future in cohesion policy - Objective 3: future agenda for cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation - Increased effectiveness between ERDF and other structural funds (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: the report by Markus Pieper, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the Commission's fifth Cohesion Report and the strategy for post-2013 cohesion policy; the report by Miroslav Mikolášik, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the Report 2010 on the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013; the report by Oldřich Vlasák, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on European Urban Agenda and its Future in Cohesion Policy; the report by Marie-Thérèse Sanchez-Schmid, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on Objective 3: a challenge for territorial cooperation - the future agenda for cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation; the report by Georgios Stavrakakis, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the state of play and future synergies for increased effectiveness between the ERDF and other structural funds.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I want to begin by saying that I would very much like to have two minutes speaking time for my closing remarks.
Today, the European Parliament is sending out a strong signal to our regions.
Even though the economic and financial crisis has eclipsed many of these activities, European structural policy will continue to provide a strong stimulus for growth and employment.
The responsibility of the regions for implementing European objectives brings added value in itself.
We want to invest more in the future of our cities and our rural areas and we are calling for the programmes to be better coordinated.
The report also no longer includes our proposal for the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the European Social Fund to be merged.
rapporteur. - Mr President, firstly I would like to thank all the honourable Members concerned for their interesting input, and especially the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation.
This is also an opportunity to express Parliament's opinion on Member States' spending priorities, and to highlight areas where more efforts are needed, including the Commission's tackling of cohesion policy implementation and of the strategic reporting exercise itself.
The 2010 strategic report focuses mainly on the implementation of programmes during the current programming period and the strategic reporting exercise.
This can be considered quite reasonable, given not only the context of serious deterioration in the socio-economic situation in 2008-2009 due to the global crisis, but also the reform of the policy for the period 2007-2013.
On the other hand, there was a more consistent average rate of project selection for the three objectives of convergence, regional competitiveness and employment and European territorial cooperation - and the same applies in the categories geared to the Lisbon Strategy objectives.
Secondly, with regard to strategic reporting itself: this is a tool for reflecting strategically on, and discussing, the thematic dimension of cohesion policy on the basis of concrete evidence provided by Member States.
It is carried out during the programming period in order to provide an overview of the Member States' progress in delivering on the EU's goals, and a useful basis from which to improve performance.
Mr President, I would like to share several points with you regarding the report for which I am the rapporteur, in other words the report on the urban dimension of future cohesion policy.
I would like to raise several points in my introduction.
First, we need to be aware that cities are an important platform for implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, for reasons that include their undeniable importance in the economic development of Europe's regions.
It is therefore essential that cities are given a strong mandate in the implementation of the aims of this common European strategy.
Secondly, I would like to emphasise that we need to develop basic infrastructure in many cities.
In my opinion, a good solution would be not only simple renovation, but also modernisation and technological investment in infrastructure, through information technologies.
I would therefore like it if we could provide cities with real support, and I therefore call on the Commission to place an obligation on Member States to involve the political representatives of the main cities and federations of local and regional authority bodies in all phases of decision-making within the framework of cohesion policy.
I would therefore like us to call on the Commission to evaluate the experience with these instruments and amend their rules to make them competitive in comparison with other instruments on the financial market.
Regional policy has had many successes during its long history and in 2009 it became the European Union's main item of expenditure, with EUR 350 billion invested in our regions between 2007 and 2013.
Europe is divided into 27 Member States and 271 regions.
As a matter of fact, the preamble to the 1957 Treaty of Rome is the common thread in our role as European elected representatives.
rapporteur. - (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the main assumption expounded in the report is that strengthening synergies between the European Regional Development Fund and other cohesion policy funds will help enormously in increasing both the effectiveness and the added value of cohesion policy.
The main demand formulated in the report in order to achieve this objective is for common rules on management and application to be adopted within the general framework of cohesion policy and with the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Fisheries Fund.
Apart from the benefits gained from saving resources and making use of complementarity, this would simplify both the use of the funds by beneficiaries and the management of the funds by the national authorities.
Within the framework of the report, we also welcome the initiative by the European Commission to adopt a single strategic framework covering more funds.
However, what we in the Committee on Regional Development are calling for is for this single framework and coordination not to be confined to the policy planning stage but to be extended to cover all policy-making stages: planning, implementation and payments, auditing and evaluation.
I should also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the main messages of my report were adopted both in the extremely important motion for a resolution by the European Parliament on the future financial perspective of the European Union and in the report on the future of cohesion policy.
If we want to ensure that Europe 2020 is a success and if we want to turn the strategy that is currently only on paper into concrete activities, initiatives and projects, it is exactly this up-to-the-minute, advanced form of regional policy which needs to be implemented in all our regions, in order to achieve the necessary results in our cities, communities, businesses, research centres and schools.
Parliament and the Commission are moving in the same direction when it comes to the main aspects of the future development of regional policy and I would like to thank you for this.
This will ultimately enable us to find out what this policy could achieve with the targeted use of financial resources in all the individual regions by the end of the period and could therefore contribute to the central objectives of Europe 2020.
If I may, I would like to make some brief remarks on the individual reports.
This has been discussed in this House and I would like to thank Parliament for its substantial support for the proposed creation of a so-called transitional region in the next period.
These are sensible and necessary moves which will guarantee political acceptance in future and also the acceptance of the citizens for this type of European policy.
I would also like to thank Mrs Sanchez-Schmid for her contribution.
I can assure you that many of these thoughts and ideas will be incorporated into the proposal on the legal basis that we need for the next subsidy period, which we will be presenting in September this year.
These two latter points are of course very important to the Committee on Budgetary Control.
When considering any move towards a greater focus on urban areas and cities, the creation of a potential new infrastructure fund, and the possible creation of a performance reserve, we need to ensure that all those things do not put at risk or damage the poorer regions in the EU.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (ES) Madam President, first of all I would like to draw attention to the significant contribution that cohesion policy has made to economic growth and to the integration of the citizens and territories of the EU.
Within cohesion policy the European Social Fund has been and will be a very important tool to assist Member States to adapt their policies to the Europe 2020 strategy and to combat the financial crisis.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - Madam President, the global economic recession changed the economic landscape in the EU dramatically: it increased unemployment, reduced economic growth and impaired the business environment.
Evaluation of the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes co-financed by the structural funds in the period 2007-2013 should reflect the impact of projects selected within the cohesion policy framework on the recovery of the European economy, particularly in terms of creating new jobs, reducing socio-economic disparities, enhancing social inclusion and improving human capital.
However, at a time when the economic and financial crisis is heightening social inequalities, structural fund allocations to the Member States are in decline.
The Commission should boost the effectiveness and public profile of the European Social Fund and, in cooperation with the Member States, should secure strong synergies between the structural funds and relevant European policies, as well as promoting synergies that meet the changing demands of today's labour market.
Madam President, the Europe 2020 strategy is supposed to help generate economic growth in a way which will also counteract social exclusion.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - (CS) Madam President, the INTERREG III programme for cross-border interregional cooperation is a complete development instrument.
The flexibility under Article 21 of the Regulation on the European Regional Development Fund, in other words the possibility of also providing funds for expenditure outside the scope of the programme is, I believe, an important element.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon added a territorial dimension to cohesion policy.
In order to make such an involvement effective and efficient, it is essential to allow a more appropriate use of the available tools.
Approximately 73% of Europe's total population lives in urban areas.
Their development is therefore directly related to areas such as employment, social inclusion, environmental protection and the achievement in general of the cohesion policy objectives.
With regard to the former, we have shown in the overview that we presented and in the ensuing debate that regional and local authorities and civil society are insufficiently involved in the design, implementation and development of regional planning, that is to say in the use of cohesion policy tools.
We have therefore asked and ask the Commission now to consider greater flexibility in funding and, specifically, greater integration between the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the Cohesion Fund.
For the future programming period I think that a single strategic approach, supported by a set of common implementation regulations for the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund, will produce added value.
Territorial cooperation will also play a key role in successfully meeting the Europe 2020 strategy objectives.
Last but not least, I would like to stress the need for the regional aspect to enjoy its appropriate place as part of both the revised EU budget and the future financial framework.
They are of highly questionable value and undermine the Member States which, in my view, should remain the primary vehicle for managing cohesion spending.
This is obvious to the citizens in all the regions of Europe and, in particular, in the very disadvantaged regions and the crisis regions.
It is clear that the major players for the future of cohesion policy are the regions and not the Member States.
It is a good job that the fifth report on cohesion has reaffirmed for these regions a specific and special treatment, in accordance with Article 349 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The report also requires that the funds earmarked for them after 2013 be at least equal to those they are receiving in the current programming period.
These savings must benefit the new intermediary regions of course, but also the other regions.
The second condition is that this creation be at least as favourable as the phasing-out process for the regions concerned.
It cannot replace any other strategy like, for instance, Europe 2020, which should have its own funding, separate from the cohesion funding, even if these two policies must naturally be coordinated and harmonised.
Some GBP 12 million in corrections was levelled against programmes in Wales from 2008 to 2009, while a total of 35% of funds for the same period was recouped in fines by the Commission.
The principle of cofinancing must be firmly established.
His report is also involved in this joint debate on cohesion policy, which is of the utmost importance not only in terms of the issue at stake, but especially because the timing of the debate is opportune.
We are currently getting to grips with the Commission's proposal, not only in terms of the new financial perspectives, but also in terms of future cohesion policy, post-2013.
It is a horizontal policy which, through its instruments par excellence, the Structural Funds, finances projects and programmes in the Member States, seeking to reduce disparities in development levels between the different regions.
We need to make use of the risk of crisis by looking for new alternatives.
All the reports being debated today will certainly present us with enormous challenges, and we know that in order to respond to these challenges we also need a sound budget, but we must make a clear distinction between budgetary aspects and policy objectives.
The Structural Funds are one of the main tools for implementing the economic and social policy of the Union.
To achieve this, the review of the Regulation on the European Social Fund will be the opportunity to ensure that this tool is set up for the benefit of the Union's strategy, but also within this strategy of the Union, of course, particularly the objectives for employment and social inclusion.
This requires an allocation of funds according to indicators other than GDP on its own and an increased percentage allocated to the European Social Fund.
Regarding the Pieper report, Madam President, allow me to say a word on paragraph 55 relating to the Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the content of which I dispute and which should not have a place in our debate.
I am counting on the intelligence and efficiency of my fellow Members. (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent and important reports on cohesion policy.
For that reason, it is vitally important that in this report Parliament adopts a strong position in favour of budget levels similar to what they are now.
Therefore, the level of funding in the new budget should be significantly higher, simply to accelerate the development of Europe, the development of the regions and the sustainable development of the European Union.
These are, of course, important matters, but the new Member States, such as Poland, still need funds for infrastructure development.
Without infrastructure, it will simply be very difficult for us to compare with the European Union in terms of level of development.
It is for this reason that we support the introduction of a new category of intermediary regions for the allocation of funds, as well as the application of new development indicators and indicators for social justice, well-being and environmental justice.
I will end with a clear message: after 2013, cohesion policy must have at its disposal much-needed and stable resources to be able to exist. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the intermediate category, I would definitely also have been able to imagine other solutions in the beginning, Mr Pieper, for example a transitional regulation for the regions which have received the highest levels of subsidies until now and which will no longer do so after 2013.
However, it emerged from the discussion that we need to take into consideration other regions, in particular those hit by the crisis.
We are currently talking about 51 regions.
Among other things, we are critical of the fact that there is no clear commitment to a much more decisive approach to combating poverty.
It goes without saying that cohesion policy must remain an instrument for social balance and solidarity throughout all the regions. (LT) Madam President, today we are debating one of the most important areas of European Union policy, ensuring the well-being of our citizens and the competitiveness and growth of the entire Union.
Today we have the Europe 2020 strategy, which envisages an even greater role for structural and cohesion policy in order to exit the crisis and contribute to the well-being of our citizens.
I believe that future regional policy should be linked to basic European objectives in the areas of innovation, research, environmental and energy challenges, and should, of course, help to create European added value, but only with follow-ups that are as transparent and effective as possible. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner Hahn, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion is firmly anchored in European policy and in the Treaty, and has been given an even better footing thanks to the territorial dimension of the Treaty of Lisbon.
We are retaining solidarity, but linking in the new objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy by means of those instruments that have proven so useful: a decentralised approach, partnership, linking programmes at different levels and multi-layer management.
We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) have decided on a free or open vote in our voting list with regard to the intermediate category and I would like to explain to you why that is.
That, then, is the reason for the free vote within the PPE group at this point in time. (DE) Madam President, Mr Hahn, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of regional policy has been highlighted today.
I can only encourage the European Union to offer more of the programmes in future which are received very positively by the people and which are aimed at precisely these objectives, just as we have established in the process of investigating the implementation.
This is very important because Europe has helped to ensure that jobs have been created in these regions.
Secondly, we need a renewed framework for this policy, one that is adapted to the new situations and challenges.
Thirdly, Mrs Sanchez-Schmid's own-initiative report has the great merit of showing how much Objective 3 is likely to generate considerable European added value.
It is therefore also one of the fundamental policies for combating the long economic and financial crisis that we have been experiencing for some years now.
What we want is a first real analysis of cohesion policy programmes for the period 2007-2013.
Total appropriations for projects selected cannot correspond on average to 27% of total funds available; 9 States cannot take up over 40% and 4 States below 20%.
The information required therefore needs to be diffused and used. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, cohesion policy is the most transparent European policy, which means that its successes can be seen very well and very quickly, but that also very quickly visible are its failures and difficulties, which are a result of the weakness of the Brussels administration as well as very often the weak administration of Member States.
This policy is a policy of reducing disparities - disparities will always exist, and there will be new disparities which we are not yet aware of today.
I think that work on a new structure will increase effectiveness and allow the policy to be pursued in a way which measures up to the challenges we currently face. (RO) Madam President, cross-border cooperation in a Europe without borders is beneficial to local and regional authorities because it plays an important role in the ongoing development of the European Union's single market.
We are all aware that one very frequent feature of cross-border areas is a higher than average unemployment rate, however, with significant interregional differences, as well as a high level of hidden unemployment caused by the lack of people out of work signing on.
Significant progress has been made at EU level in terms of the regions' balanced development, but it is not sufficient.
I think that supporting the convergence requirements of less developed areas must remain a priority in the forthcoming programming period so that fair access to the cohesion policy instruments can be guaranteed.
This will allow us to apply the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, which emphasise that under Objective 1 (convergence) a suitable share must be allocated to the regions most in need, according to the severity of their development problems.
The European Union will only be able to compete against its rivals at a global level if cohesion policy can fully tap the development potential not only of urban regions but also of rural areas, with their endogenous potential, and if it can offer a sufficiently flexible response to the challenges and difficulties identified by the Europe 2020 strategy.
It is one of our fundamental policies, the positive effects of which can really be seen everywhere; in all corners of the European Union, in all Member States, in virtually every urban or local community of the EU.
Since the most important issue, that of integrating what is commonly known as the new intermediate category of regions, remains to be resolved, in that regard, I would like to call on the Commissioner and the European Commission as a whole to provide us, as soon as possible, with all the details that remain unclear regarding the creation of this category of region, especially the financial aspects and effects, as this issue concerns the future development of regions throughout the European Union. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the Garriga Polledo report, Parliament has asked for a 2014 multi-annual financial framework equal to the budget challenges that await us.
I am therefore glad that the European Commission has proposed creating an intermediate category for regions where GDP per capita is between 75 and 90% of the EU average.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Commissioner Hahn for this work.
This new instrument will enable us to better cater for the specific characteristics of many regions that are neither poor nor rich.
This intermediate category will also be fairer for it will provide similar support to regions which have a comparable level of development.
Finally, I should like to point out that creating this new category will not involve any additional expenditure, thanks to the savings expected by several regions no longer being under Objective 1.
It is therefore very important that these objectives should be emphasised as they are in the texts we are discussing, and it is right that the structural funds should be reviewed and amended to make them more effective in achieving the results they are intended to bring about.
Of these, in my view the European Social Fund is fundamental, for a very simple reason, which is that we are in an acute phase of the economic and social crisis that is not yet over, and that is having its most serious effects precisely on work and employment.
It is very important that Europe should uphold its social model, and at the same time reiterate the fact that work has an unquestionable social value and that employment is one of the main reference points in the use of resources that economic development should make available.
For this reason the Social Fund must be strengthened, its autonomy retained and the available resources increased.
In view of the current financial situation and the ongoing implementation of the programmes, the Commission should make every effort to promote simplicity and flexibility in rules on the implementation of programmes, and should allow cofinancing rates to be renegotiated within the current regulations, whenever this is necessary and sought by the Member States.
In order to monitor this, and so that we have this transparency, I would argue that information relating to the adoption and implementation of projects should be made available in real time by the most detailed classifications of territorial and statistical units possible, so that the entire public is able to access it. (PL) Mr President, at the outset, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on an excellent job.
As the rapporteurs have stressed, cohesion policy has proved its importance, including during the crisis, as a policy for development which supports investment and brings benefits directly and indirectly to all regions.
For example, for every euro invested in my country of Poland, almost half, or 46 cents, returns to the countries of the 15 'old' Member States.
Support for development as well as investment and the importance of cohesion policy for achieving the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy are the reasons for which this policy should retain at least its current significance, but also its financial support.
In view of the dangers associated with unemployment among young people and with demographic changes it is crucial to achieve full use of the potential of the European Social Fund (ESF), and that requires the creation of conditions to achieve better coordination of the ESF with other instruments at regional and local level. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic and financial crisis that we are experiencing highlights the need for regional policy as the best means of reducing disparities in development between regions and Member States.
I agree with the rapporteur that overall responsibility for the ENPI should be returned to the Regional Development DG and that the cross-border cooperation programmes should be implemented in a framework similar to that for the Interreg programmes.
Their nature requires application of the EU territorial cooperation rules. (PL) Mr President, cohesion policy is the best tool for creating equal opportunities for development of the European Union's regions and stimulating economic growth.
This transitional zone between 75 and 90% of European GDP is a real commitment towards a consolidated cohesion policy for the years to come.
Regional policy at EU level needs, above all, to create added value and produce new enterprises, and, consequently, employment for people.
The proposal that we should establish a transitional support category is indeed correct and socially fair.
Cross-border collaboration and macro-regional cooperation are immensely important for the achievement of the Europe 2020 objectives in a Europe which is becoming more cohesive.
Cross-border concepts and projects in areas such as infrastructure, business cooperation, research collaboration, the development of the labour market and training act as the engine for large parts of the European Union.
This is why this crucial need for convergence absolutely requires a robust cohesion budget, which cannot be weakened to fund other policies.
I would therefore like to ask you, Commissioner, if it is possible that, without any increase in the Union budget, the creation of the infrastructure fund and new innovation policies - which will be linked to cohesion and to regional development, which I support - will become a Trojan horse brought into the cohesion budget? (PL) Mr President, cohesion policy plays an important role in facilitating development of the regions - regions which bring together urban and rural areas and create unity between them.
It is a fact that urban areas have an important influence on the acceleration of regional development.
They should be given the necessary support in this role.
I would like to observe that cohesion policy is not very visible in rural areas, despite the declarations which have been made on this matter.
However, there is a lack of funds for the development of enterprise and technical and social infrastructure in rural areas, and this should be the role of cohesion policy.
The construction of technical infrastructure is fundamental for development, but we cannot forget the development of enterprise or of social infrastructure and science and research, which fundamentally affect modern, intelligent and innovative development. (RO) Mr President, today's debate provides the best argument in favour of the need for a robust, well-financed cohesion policy in the future financial framework.
However, I do believe that it makes sense for Objective 1 regions that lose their Objective 1 status to continue to receive special support.
What we do not want is a continuous subsidy mentality; instead we should offer help and support to the regions that need it. (RO) Mr President, cohesion policy is, without a doubt, fundamental to the European Union's development.
I believe that its structure underpins European competitiveness.
This will enable us to back up the economic development efforts with a high quality of life, which will make our citizens stay at home in Europe.
Therefore, I advocate that equal access to the infrastructure and quality services, as well as support for SMEs are basic guiding principles in the regional development policy's structure and that this is the path towards achieving global competitiveness. (ES) Mr President, cohesion policy has undoubtedly contributed to increased productivity in all regions of the EU and to eliminating regional disparities and there is no doubt that it has proved fundamental for all citizens and that it is helping - and will continue to help - to combat the economic and financial crisis Europe is suffering.
The 23 languages of the EU are what make us rich and diverse. (BG) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for their work on this particularly important subject.
The intermediate category contradicts the principle of converging European regions whose development is below the average European Union level.
It was very important to Parliament in terms of timing, and something that I welcomed myself, that Parliament should have the opportunity to form a detailed, multilayered opinion prior to the publication of our draft regulations, and that this opinion should then also find expression in the relevant regulations.
It is very important that we place greater emphasis on the quality of the work with the regions, particularly when we look at some countries that are experiencing genuine structural problems.
In this case it is necessary not just to address the allocation of resources and the identification of objectives, but also to help with the definition of the programmes for identifying objectives and to assist with the formation of clusters in individual regions and parts of regions in order to generate sustainable economic growth.
At the risk of repeating what some speakers have already mentioned, I would point out that our proposal will contain a separate chapter on multi-level governance, setting out our stall and calling on all stakeholders to cooperate in the drafting of operative programmes in the regions.
We must play our part in this by making further proposals in relation to flat rate amounts, etc.
Much of what needs to happen in rural areas should also be covered by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the purpose of which is not just to support farmers, but also to support rural areas.
The crux of the matter is as follows: to contribute to growth in qualitative and quantitative terms and to ensure that Europe 2020 objectives are achieved, for example in the areas of energy, climate change, innovation, research, education and training, employment and the campaign to combat poverty.
I should like to thank everyone for this highly committed debate, and also for the enormous support that the House has shown for our policies.
In this context, strategic reporting, as a new instrument, increases accountability in delivering policy objectives and shows that cohesion policy should address all European regions and societal challenges in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the whole EU.
Well-financed cohesion policy should be closer to EU citizens and should continue to address all European Union regions and societal challenges, both helping the poorer to catch up and delivering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the whole European Union.
The strategic report 2010 constitutes a strong incentive to improve the current implementation of the cohesion policy programmes.
Therefore, I hope that the result of today's vote on the strategic report 2010 will send that message to the Member States and the Commission.
