Situation and cultural heritage in Kashgar (Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, China) The item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation and cultural heritage in Kashgar (Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, China).
author. - Mr President, Uyghurs have practically become a minority in their historic homeland.
In fact, the fate of the ancient city of Kashgar is in the balance.
Mr President, today's debate on the rights of ethnic minorities in China comes a day after the Dalai Lama officially announced that he is resigning from his political role in Tibet.
Mr President, it is clear that Kashgar is the symbol, par excellence, of Uyghur cultural identity in the Chinese province of Xinjiang.
On 27 January, I organised a conference in Brussels, where I learned of the impact which the destructive Chinese urbanisation plans are having on the Uyghur population.
We already know about the suppression of the ancient Buddhist Tibetan culture over the last 60 years; now we see the same threat looming over the city of Kashgar in the restive province of Xinjiang.
For 2 000 years, Kashgar has been a thriving city on the Silk Road with a rich, unique and flourishing central Asian culture, but now it is facing wholesale demolition and rebuilding.
In other words, it is Europe itself that is repeatedly participating in this dream world or fantasy world, which the Chinese leaders are creating for themselves, in which there is no opposition and in which one development model suits all, and is the same in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, or in Tibet.
Therefore, it is really difficult for the European Parliament to say what we are going to say today, which is also what is written in our resolution: we are calling for the Beijing authorities to stop committing this demographic genocide against Uyghurs; we are calling for them to preserve the cultural and ethnic diversity of the regions that make up China; and we are calling for them to preserve places of architectural or heritage value.
However, the leaders of our own countries are throwing themselves into the arms of the Chinese leaders, pardoning them for everything that they have done in their country, and are giving them free rein in the name of a development model that ultimately we respect only to a very basic degree.
The People's Republic of China has announced a 'Kashgar Dangerous House Reform', the purpose of which is to raze 85 per cent of the Old City in Kashgar.
Kashgar is the centre of the Muslim Uyghurs - one of the largest ethnic minorities in China.
It would be the world's loss, but a bigger loss to China. (FI) Mr President, this resolution actually concerns the preservation of an important cultural heritage and the right of minority peoples to their cultural identity.
China must take action to make Kashgar a UNESCO world heritage site and preserve the area for future generations.
The European External Action Service should also ensure that local strategies extend to the right to its cultural identity.
In 2009, the Chinese Government announced an urban reconstruction programme that plans to demolish 85% of the old city of Kashgar and replace it with modern apartments.
This is clear in Europe, in China, and wherever, and the Chinese authorities know this.
However, we have seen, for instance, how they have purposefully destroyed this heritage, which means this identity, in several places like Tibet, and now they are doing the same in the Uyghur places like Kashgar.
Just this week, Karl Habsburg explained to us how important it is in the search for identity for this cultural heritage not only to be available to the Uyghurs, but also for it to be a global asset.
International relations can indeed provide a great deal of help here. (FI) Mr President, there is no respect for the fundamental rights of the ethnic minorities in China, be they Tibetans or Uyghurs.
The Chinese Communist Party must come to acknowledge the fact that the citizens of China are culturally diverse, and they must also have a right to cultural autonomy. (RO) Mr President, the old centre of the city of Kashgar is in danger and, along with it, the historic symbol of the Uyghur minority in China.
Otherwise, their exotic, fascinating culture is in danger of being completely destroyed. (PL) Mr President, I would like to say it is to be welcomed that the European Parliament is once again talking about the Uyghurs, a Muslim minority which is suffering discrimination in China.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the preservation of cultural heritage is obviously of central importance in ensuring the protection and continuation of a minority's traditions and way of life.
Moreover, the destruction of important cultural property has the potential to deal a serious blow, not only to the heritage and archaeological patrimony of the minority concerned, but to cultural heritage in general.
The significance of Kashgar as a centre of culture for the Uyghur minority in China cannot be overstated.
The Chinese Government's 2009 White Paper on Xinjiang stated that restoration of Kashgar is necessary to protect the city from earthquakes or fire.
It is also worrying that some 200 000 people may be displaced from their traditional homes and that there appears to have been little or no consultation with the residents affected.
The European Union fully shares these concerns and will call on the Chinese authorities to work with UNESCO to ensure that any redevelopment of Kashgar meets international best practice in this field.
The European Union will also call on the Chinese authorities to ensure that the inhabitants of Kashgar are fully consulted about the future of the city and that their views are taken into account.
