Naturally, in drafting the communication, we have taken full account of Parliament's resolution of 10 February on the outcome of COP 15.
The Commission will therefore now undertake work to outline a pathway up to 2050 for the European Union's transition to becoming a low-carbon economy.
This will involve reducing our emissions by 80% to 95% in 2050, as already agreed, and - as this House is well aware - the EU is committed to reducing its emissions to at least 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 and to scaling up this reduction to 30% if the conditions are right.
If today we want to be as ambitious as we were prepared to be when we adopted the Climate and Energy Package back in 2007 and 2008, we would then have to go beyond the 20%.
The Commission will also engage in developing an analysis of milestones on our pathway to 2050, including the necessary scenarios of the ambition level for 2030.
Most importantly, I think it is very important to see what can be specific deliverables for Cancún.
So for all of us to whom it is very important to get an international deal, I also think it is very important to pursue this stepwise approach and to try to do whatever we can to ensure that the world gets a legally binding deal before 2012.
Secondly, the two-degree target that we have set ought to have more scientific evidence to back it up and you should now increase your efforts so that we intensify our research into whether this is still possible or whether - as various people are already saying - we should noticeably distance ourselves from this.
As you know, there are surveys which indicate that only 30% of European citizens believe that CO2 affects the climate.
Every project that does not take this into account is doomed to failure. (SV) Madam President, Commissioner Hedegaard made a number of positive statements, but she also said two very worrying things: she prefers talking about 2050 than about 2010, which I find worrying, and she talks more about how we must lower our expectations than about continuing to drive things forward so that our aims and expectations are as high as possible at the meetings that are already scheduled.
I very much agree with the point that you almost did not have time to raise - the issue of trust - and that is also why we have a substantial outreach, a thing that is crucial for the European Union.
Mrs Ulvskog, you mentioned that I spoke more about 2050 than 2010.
This is a strategy on the way forward for 2012.
The year 2020 is only 10 years away.
In this Commission period, we must also lay the path for where we are going to be by 2030, so that was very deliberate and that is one of the new things in this.
Finally, to Chris Davies, yes you are right.
In the absence of a globally binding agreement, does she not agree that there is a great risk that we make our industry more uncompetitive, and saddle our consumers with ever higher electricity bills, at no net benefit to the environment at all, because those reductions in emissions are, of course, cancelled out by increases in India, China, the US, etc.? (GA) Madam President, the EU must commit to reducing emissions by 40% by 2020 according to the most recent scientific information available.
The other question was how much should be given to developing countries, as I understood it.
The criteria have not been set up yet, but I think it is very important that we do not attach a lot of conditions to that.
We cannot afford, time-wise, to invent new governing systems or channels or whatever for this money to get out to work, because we should get it out there working as soon as possible.
We should not think going to 30% will be a piece of cake, although we must know what the potential would be, what the implications would be and that would be the analysis that I would provide before the European Council meeting this June.
Then, later this year, we would have the analysis on the pathways to 2050, including this 2030 perspective that I think we have to start thinking about, the reason of course being that we have pledged to reduce by 80% to 95% by 2050.
What I simply fail to understand is that those who are sceptical of this climate issue cannot see that it will always be good for a planet whose population is approaching nine billion people, or even more by the middle of this century, to become much more energy efficient and much more resource efficient.
So that is where we should have common ground when it comes to the tools because that will anyhow benefit our environment, benefit our citizens and benefit our economies.
I still think that that will be the most efficient way of trying to regulate this, but then, of course, it is very important that we have our own systems up and running, working as efficiently and as business-friendly as possible, so that they can see that it actually works and that, in the end, it also benefits their possibility of providing innovation. (DE) A very warm welcome to Parliament, Commissioner.
We need to find another mechanism to enable this information and these results to be linked in with your travels around the world so that those of us here in Brussels and Strasbourg know exactly where we stand.
Commissioner, I am delighted to welcome you to your first engagement and to repeat what I said to you at your hearing and to congratulate you on the enthusiasm that you breathe into our debates, you who embody climate diplomacy with, of course, the ongoing support of our Parliament.
This is very important and it could be very useful to compare notes, so that when you get a piece of information in one country and I get information one month later, we get together sometimes and compare notes so that we can really build on the information that we each receive.
The last question was about the Kyoto Protocol and the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol.
We have delivered and lived up to our formal pledges in the first period from 2008 to 2012.
We will deliver whatever we have pledged to deliver and we are also ready to continue the Kyoto Protocol.
If you could work with Parliament, then I will work with the Commission.
That is an aspect that we should bear in mind and try to see how we can develop it further.
and then finally to Dan Jørgensen: of course I do not believe that we should not reach an agreement in Mexico.
Viewed in these terms, I believe that we will increase the pressure on the US and China and others precisely by saying that we must have very specific deliverables and that very specific results must be achieved in Cancún.
We simply need to try to define what the maximum is that we can get out of Mexico.
I am sure that will be the case.
Indeed, our aim to become the least polluted region in the world cannot but be to our advantage.
At present in India, there are about 500 million people (roughly the population of the EU) without access to electricity.
Madam President, Mrs Hedegaard, the Copenhagen Summit, which we went to as climate change leaders, was a defeat, and showed that it is only Europe which is interested in limiting CO2 emissions.
The fundamental challenge for the European Union after the Copenhagen Summit is to draw up, as quickly as possible, something which is essential - a collective roadmap for the COP 16 summit in Mexico.
I welcome the important place that has been given to climate change in the Communication from the Commission entitled 'Europe 2020 - A European strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
The European Union can play an important role in this sector on the global market.
As proof of this, we must review our strategy so that we can achieve a legally binding agreement in Mexico.
The EU has made known its wish to be associated with the Accord and has made, by way of information, a unilateral commitment to reduce the EU's global emissions by 20% on 1990 levels and a conditional offer of raising this reduction percentage to 30% if other major producers of emissions also agree to contribute by an equivalent proportion to the global effort to cut emissions.
As of 18 February, 40 states have made known their reduction plans and 100 have signed up to the Accord, but this is not enough.
