Review of the European Neighbourhood Policy - Eastern Dimension - Review of the European Neighbourhood Policy - Southern Dimension The next item is the joint debate on the Commission statements on: Review of the European Neighbourhood Policy - Eastern Dimension Review of the European Neighbourhood Policy - Southern Dimension.
I have read both Mário David's report on the south and Marek Siwiec's report on the east and find them both significant and useful.
You will have noticed that the results of our previous discussions on Neighbourhood Policy are already reflected in the communication on a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity of 8 March.
I am thinking, in particular, of free and fair elections, freedom of expression and association, judicial independence, the fight against corruption and security sector reform.
As highlighted in both reports, the revised Neighbourhood Policy will also recognise and act on the importance of the civil society.
This is also important at a regional and sub-regional level where, for example, the Eastern Partnership Civil Society Forum has been making good progress.
Finally, the desire expressed in the consultation by many partner countries for greater political engagement with the European Union.
Closer and more substantial political dialogue across all areas of our relationship will help us resolve difficult issues in a spirit of mutual confidence.
In the future, the Union must favour a bottom-up approach to its Neighbourhood Policy.
Only greater involvement by local communities and civil society will ensure maximum effectiveness in implementing it.
However, I cannot help but voice my frustration: I regret the fact that Parliament and the Commission have not been willing to make the most of this opportunity to differentiate once and for all between the ENP to the east - with countries that could, in the future, potentially become our partners in the Union - and the ENP to the south.
I also challenge the Commission to show, in its review process on 20 April, the ambition that the current situation demands, namely, with a tailor-made Neighbourhood Policy adapted to each state, with clear benchmarks and careful assessment that could lead to a future Mediterranean economic area, incorporating the new democracies of the south.
Madam President, Commissioner, we have reached the final, today, or rather the semi-final, of work in connection with a review of the European Union's Eastern policy.
If we are talking, today, about the fact that we want to conduct a review of this policy, then it is crucial to say that we want to see that these countries, in a variety of ways and at different speeds, are going to move towards our values - towards what the European Union offers them.
However, the money which the European Union allocates to this should be better spent, should reach those for whom it is intended, and should sometimes bypass states and any state administration which is capable of wasting that money.
For there is a conflict in this Chamber about the fact that we are not able or do not want to say clearly what the wording is ... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, always with a smile on your face, Commissioner, from the start of this term of the EP, if not before, we have had a very intensive and lively debate on the urgency of reforming the Eastern and Southern Dimensions of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The need for such reform, which should lead to the interests in these regions being integrated more effectively, has, in fact, become topical and acute; it has become a necessity following the dramatic changes and processes which have unfolded in the region.
This is particularly true of the Union for the Mediterranean where it is evident that we need more elaborate instruments in order to develop some kind of effective policy on the part of the European Union.
Madam President, the Eastern Partnership is still very new.
It is clear that there has been progress in this area, but we have also seen setbacks.
The Civil Society Forum, founded as part of the Eastern Partnership, is a good start.
The Civil Society Forum needs our support, as we have described in paragraph 20 of the report.
In Syria, we should be more supportive of democratic opposition to President al-Assad, who is clearly no friend of the West, as we have seen from his efforts with North Korea to develop a nuclear weapon and his political support for Iran and for terrorism.
I believe that UN Security Council Resolution 1970 only specifically bans the sale of arms to the Jamahiriya and, therefore, not to the Benghazi rebels, though unfortunately the EU legislation appears to transpose 1970 incorrectly, with a blanket arms embargo. (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, Mr Füle, Mr Siwiec, thank you for devoting yourself to this subject.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (NL) Madam President, in preparation for this debate, I reread the open letter which Svetlana Alexeyivich, certainly the most important intellectual voice in Belarus, addressed to President Alexander Lukashenko.
Before the election, the political dialogue in our society had only just begun, but you blatantly nipped it in the bud straightaway.
At the end of the day, in an interview given to the Neue Zürcher Zeitung on 31 January 2011, the writer referred to Lukashenko as holding the entire Belarusian nation hostage and as a dictator with small man syndrome over whom only the Kremlin could exert any real influence.
It is true that the European Neighbourhood Policy and Eastern Dimension were decisive steps in efforts to deepen relations with our neighbours to the East.
The crisis which has broken out in the countries of North Africa, which are included in the Southern Dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy, are monopolising international interest, but the Eastern Dimension has faced, and still faces, similar challenges.
Events in Belarus are very clearly a message and wake-up call for the European Union in terms of the responsibilities which it must assume in such cases.
We need a long-term strategic plan for growth and stability in the region.
Of course, this sort of evaluation should not be horizontal; we need to differentiate our relations with our partners, as each country will need to be judged separately in terms of the progress it has made, based on clearly defined criteria.
Within this framework, the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy needs to give new impetus to efforts to promote a substantive political framework for cooperation with our eastern partners. (DE) Madam President, I would like to say something very briefly in response to my fellow Member's objection about the costs, despite the fact that he has disappeared again.
The two rapporteurs, who produced very good reports and whom I would like to thank very much, indicate relatively clearly what the costs would be if we did not have a Neighbourhood Policy.
They would be much higher in terms of human costs, if we look at the refugee crisis in the south, but also, of course, in terms of economic and social costs, if we look at all our neighbouring countries in the south and east.
I would like to say a few words about the Eastern Partnership.
It is shameful for a country like Azerbaijan and for its President to do things of this kind.
This acknowledgement should always be reflected in documents and statements both in Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The first issue, which was raised by Mr Schulz, is our ability to provide real and effective support for civil society in all neighbouring countries, irrespective of their importance in terms of trade or strategy, or their political situation.
Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the holistic approach to Neighbourhood Policy.
I would like a detailed answer to my question, Commissioner. (EL) Madam President, I consider that Commissioner Füle is handling correctly the question of supervision of the European Neighbourhood Policy, the scope of which extends to 16 States, from the underbelly of Africa to the underbelly of Russia.
However, the European Neighbourhood Policy has been tested by recent developments in the Arab world, which have highlighted the dissatisfaction of the people with their autocratic regimes and, at the same time, the failure of the economic and social reforms in these countries supported by the Union.
We should be critical, of course, but we should also be fair.
The Neighbourhood Policy has contributed a lot to the development of relations with those countries - and not only with those countries but also with their societies, which will be one of the main issues now to be added to the review of Neighbourhood Policy.
This would constitute a clear message, and I hope that the Commission will also do what it can to back this decision. (PL) Madam President, European Neighbourhood Policy and, as part of this, the Eastern Partnership, is a key area and challenge for the European Union.
It is an important political framework for strengthening relations with the partner countries - countries with which we should be moving towards economic and political integration.
In the case of Ukraine, this process should end with the prospect of full membership of the European Union, of course, following fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria, and for this, it is essential for there to be greater political commitment from the authorities in Kiev.
Let us not forget the Europeans in Belarus, a country with a civilisation similar to our own, but one which is kept closed by the Lukashenko regime.
Finally, I would like to point out that in many countries included in the Neighbourhood Policy, there are still serious problems in the area of respect for freedom of expression, particularly in the media, freedom of association and freedom of assembly.
As a Parliament in a free Europe, we must ... (The President cut off the speaker) (CS) Madam President, I hope there is no one here from the countries of the Eastern Partnership, as they might think, on the basis of our numbers here, that we are not interested in the Eastern Partnership.
I, too, would like to stress the importance of, and the need for a debate on, the Eastern Partnership.
A debate on the Eastern Partnership is also necessary due to the fact that it is not entirely clear that we all accord the same importance to this project.
In view of the varying political development of the individual countries, however, the EU must apply a variable approach and provide more help and EU resources to those Eastern partners that are prepared to go further and faster in fulfilling their obligations.
The events in the Mediterranean signal a process of profound change and they will have lasting consequences, not only for the countries of the region, but also for Europe.
For this reason, there are numerous things we must do and these will take time.
These policies need fundamental change; we must finally open a new chapter. (PL) Madam President, the Eastern Dimension is one of the most important areas for the European Union's development under the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The Union has very important economic and financial interests in these countries, and these should not be forgotten, but most importance of all should be attached to matters related to energy.
In order to strengthen cooperation between the countries I have mentioned and the European Union, the EU trade area should be liberalised, which would allow more business to be done and would bring these countries closer to the European Union, and the Union is, after all, already the biggest economic partner of these countries today.
Finally, we must not forget about easing visa obligations, stepping up people-to-people programmes and giving financial support to exchanges of young people from countries in the Eastern partnership with young people from the EU. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, we would all like European Union policy to be effective, but for it to be effective, it must be fully consistent both in terms of the Eastern Dimension of Neighbourhood Policy as well as the Southern Dimension.
As for the Eastern Dimension, I would like to draw particular attention to what are known as frozen conflicts, to the situation in Moldova and, in particular, to the situation in Transnistria and in Nagorno-Karabakh, and I would also like to say a few words - particularly as I am the standing rapporteur to the European Parliament for Georgia - about the situation in Abkhazia and in South Ossetia.
We must speak with one voice to Russia's leaders, today, and tell them they are not meeting the commitments they made in 2008 and, for example, that the European Union Observation Mission should be given access to Abkhazia and South Ossetia as quickly as possible. (PT) Madam President, the popular uprisings in North Africa reveal the errors of European policy and diplomacy guided by a supposed realpolitik, which has supported dictators and devalued aspirations for freedom, justice and opportunity for all human beings.
The clear perspective of membership helps to create a self-fulfilling prophecy, and if societies and those who govern these countries have the impression that full membership of the EU is an attainable goal, then it will certainly be more likely to be achieved. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, I regret the Council's absence in today's debate.
I am concerned about the line being taken by the Commission and the High Representative, Mrs Ashton: in an article published in The New York Times on 18 March 2011, she appears to be advising those countries to specialise in agricultural exports to European markets.
It should also implement this in its own comprehensive strategy in order to bring about positive change.
I will repeat what I said here in this Chamber on Monday: the lesson of the events in North Africa and the Middle East proves that the people who live there, particularly young people, are not only demanding more bread; they are also demanding greater freedom and more respect for their rights as citizens and people.
The same is true of our neighbours in the East and, in particular, in a country which is an immediate neighbour of the European Union, Belarus.
I would like to tell you about the scandalous events which have taken place this afternoon in Grodno in Belarus, where a journalist, Andrzej Poczobut, who is accused of insulting the President in articles written for the international press in connection with his work as a journalist, has just been arrested by the KGB to prevent him from talking to us, Members of the European Parliament, at tomorrow's sitting of the Belarusian delegation.
European Neighbourhood Policy should help us prevent situations such as the one which occurred this afternoon in the case of Andrzej Poczobut. (SV) Madam President, I am grateful that the Commission has chosen to present this review of the European Neighbourhood Policy's Southern Dimension.
The best approach would probably be to invest precisely in this rebuilding and trade in order to regain the trust that we have lost.
We are building Europe's prosperity on free trade in Europe, so why not help our North African neighbours to build their prosperity on free trade with us? (EL) Madam President, the European Neighbourhood Policy is, without doubt, a successful policy.
I find it fatal to oppose the Southern neighbourhood and the Eastern neighbourhood.
There should be symmetric financing, as there is a false dilemma in opposing both, and it should be smart financing.
Secondly, we should consider creating a rapid reaction tool within the ENP for prompt and flexible response to political changes in partner countries, as has happened recently in the Southern neighbourhood.
I think that the Nabucco gas pipeline, along with the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, the Pan-European Oil Pipeline, the Turkey-Greece-Italy Interconnector or the ... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, I do support the European Neighbourhood Policy as a meaningful political framework for strengthening democracy in both the Eastern and Southern Dimensions, but I have now asked for the floor in order to pose the following question to all of us: whether the European Union's moral right to show third countries the way towards real democracy is well justified.
That is something that the European Union should practise as a policy.
The suggestion that we should engage with civil society, particularly in these countries, is a very good one.
The revolution in the Arab world has shown this to be a fallacy.
The democratic processes taking place there are very fragile and vulnerable, and we must help them in a timely manner.
The long list of speakers who have made a number of valuable suggestions and asked good questions is proof that this approach was the right one.
Embassies have also been upgraded in order to represent not only the Commission but also the European Union.
We wanted that to be reflected in our Neighbourhood Policy.
Our communication of 8 March was an attempt to answer some of those questions - to be absolutely frank with you, the easy questions - because we have actually answered only those that related to the emerging democracies.
In that communication of 8 March, we defined three basic pillars, which you will also see reflected in the strategic review.
In the second, the focus is on the relationship with societies and support for civil societies.
It will have repercussions in the East and there is a lesson-learned process in our joint thinking with our Eastern partners.
The ENP review process will strengthen the need for a balanced approach to our neighbourhood, whether it is the East or the South.
There is a new momentum to substitute, sometimes, preferred real politics in our neighbourhood by an ambitious and much more proactive policy based on our values.
There is also a momentum to be clear on what we want to achieve with, or through, the instruments of the Neighbourhood Policy.
Expect only very few, but very clear and very important benchmarks.
Parliament has a very important role to play in this regard.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 7 April.
The ENP Eastern Dimension should clearly value this underlying principle as such, and ensure that our neighbours in Eastern Europe will be able to concretely see a reliable prospect of future membership.
The strongest incentive for democratic and political reforms and creating civil society is, and will remain, the prospect of EU membership.
To strengthen this credibility and to diffuse any doubts about double standards, the EU should make it absolutely clear that relations with our Eastern neighbours must be grounded, first and foremost, on democratic values, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
In point 12, there is no statement on the negative developments in Moldova.
In today's debate in the European Parliament, we have held a further discussion about the Eastern Dimension of the European Union's Neighbourhood Policy.
The young citizens of Ukraine expect support from the Union's Member States and, most of all, they want the borders to be opened so they can move freely between countries, study and develop their passions and interests.
We should also extend the stipend system for students from the Eastern countries of the European Neighbourhood Policy and encourage them to engage in greater social and political activity.
I welcome the joint discussion on the two reports on the European Neighbourhood Policy, insofar as we need to adopt a consistent approach to our neighbours in both the south and east.
I am thinking, in particular, about respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
This is why I believe that we need to be brave enough to acknowledge the positive results achieved by our Neighbourhood Policy, as in the case of Georgia and Moldova, but also the adverse developments, as has happened, unfortunately, with Belarus or Ukraine.
The crisis of the Arab world has demonstrated that the direction pursued so far in the Neighbourhood Policy has failed.
This also holds true with regard to the Eastern Dimension of the policy.
The European Neighbourhood Policy of the future must be founded on cross-border relations between people; this particularly applies to the Eastern Dimension, as the countries involved in the Eastern Partnership also have the prospect of obtaining candidate status.
The Ukrainian Government has much work to do in the area of reinforcing human rights and democracy.
in writing. - The European Neighbourhood Policy should remain European, not French, Romanian or Polish.
A distinction between neighbours in the South and in the East, followed by a transfer of funds from East to South, could benefit the agenda of a sponsor state, but it would put an end to the European Neighbourhood Policy.
