Oral explanations of vote Mr President, I want to explain why I voted against the 2011 budget.
At a time of austerity, when governments across the European Union - and in fact governments across the world - are looking to tighten their belt and to rein in spending, how dare we ask for an increase in taxpayers' money?
We nevertheless believe that this work should force the European institutions to continue to monitor future developments in this new discipline, because in the past unclear situations have unfortunately arisen all too often, which have had a negative impact on the financial system, to the detriment of businesses and savers.
However, when these agencies become a monopoly and manage to avoid any form of supervision, then they take on a godlike status and we find them being worshipped.
At the appropriate time, Parliament should ask itself whether these measures really have been successful. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote on the 2011 budget confirms the closing of a new procedure, which, however painful it may have been, showed the responsible and steadfast attitude of the budgetary authorities.
I too am convinced that this is the first step to starting radical and more precise reform in this area.
We hope, however, that the cure does not turn out to be worse than the disease. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon has introduced a key innovation in the democratic functioning of the European Union by providing this new practical tool for civil participation in European debate and integration.
In fact, the European citizens' initiative introduces a new concept of international democracy and gives the European Union a new form of participatory democracy.
All our citizens can apply directly to the European Commission to submit a legislative proposal.
We welcome the proposal from the Commission, since the involvement of civil society and the formulation of policies in decision making strengthen the democratic legitimacy of our institutions and bring the European Union closer to its citizens. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to express my satisfaction at the approval of the European citizens' initiative, for which I was the shadow rapporteur for the Committee on Culture and Education, while complaining that Parliament has failed to vote on two issues that I consider fundamental: the rights of young people over the age of 16 to sign this initiative and votes for residents.
We know that these initiatives are not covered by the Treaty of Lisbon and these are some of the reasons why we are opposed to this treaty. (DA) Mr President, the Danish Liberal Party has today voted in favour of the citizens' initiative, because it encourages participation by citizens and will make the EU much more accessible.
However, as a minimum, citizens must come from quarter of the Member States - the number of citizens from each Member State must be at least equal to the number of Members of the European Parliament from that Member State multiplied by a factor of 750, and citizens must be old enough to vote in parliamentary elections.
We believe that these conditions are important in order to ensure that the citizens' initiative also attains the validity that is required for it to be perceived as a serious contribution to the development of democracy. (FI) Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the citizens' initiative.
Consequently, this new initiative will obviously perhaps give a boost to citizen involvement, though, on the other hand, I myself see how it could result in a situation where the Commission only replies to initiatives, with nothing concrete emerging.
That being the case, we need to rethink how we might genuinely encourage people to take part in political decision making. (DA) Mr President, just to add to what has already been said in respect of the support of the Danish Liberal Party, I would like to say that, as already mentioned, this is an extremely important initiative.
To answer Mr Fox a few moments ago: after the first phase of this, the Commission could decide that it is not a worthwhile exercise.
As regards the euro, it is absolutely crucial, from the point of view of the integrity and the cohesion of the Union, and from the point of view of solidarity within the European Union, that we have the common currency and that we do everything possible to protect it.
I wish the Commission well in the year ahead. (NL) I have voted against this motion for numerous reasons, but the most peculiar paragraph is the one which states that, according to this Parliament, Member States should be required to spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development aid and that the Commission should ensure compliance with that obligation.
The resolution also rightly emphasises the crucial role of the development of agricultural capacity.
When there is a disaster it is absolutely right that aid plays a vital role in the short term but when we are looking at long-term development sometimes our aid is misallocated.
Surely it is not right for our taxpayers in different Member States of the EU to be sending money to governments in Africa who are not governing their country in a decent way and that money does not flow down to those who really need it.
The President of the European Council said that patriotism leads to war.
Well I would love to bring him to a place where there is no patriotism whatsoever, and see what it leads to. (HU) Mr President, we all know that as a result of the financial crisis, the state pillar of the pension system, which offers a greater degree of security, is becoming increasingly attractive in several European countries.
Although the pension system is a matter that essentially falls within the scope of national competence, the direction that debates take on these issues in Europe is still important.
I therefore welcome the fact that point 30 of the Decision on the Commission work programme, which was adopted now with the support of the three largest popular, social and liberal groups within the European Parliament, highlights that the first, that is to say, the state pillar of the pension system needs to be strengthened.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights now has the same legal force as the Treaties and represents the most modern codification of fundamental rights, offering a good balance between rights and solidarity, and encompassing civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights as well as third-generation rights. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I decided to vote in favour of this report not merely because this was a decision taken by my political group, but also because I am absolutely convinced that this report is of great importance in institutional terms and is necessary at a time when Parliament's powers are defined but taking time to organise.
I therefore thank Mrs Gál for her work and hope that this report will lead to a collective improvement in the activities of European institutions. (FI) Mr President, firstly I want to congratulate Mrs Gál on this excellent report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union.
It is for the sake of freedom of opinion that we awarded the Sakharov Prize to a Cuban dissident, but we also still have problems within Europe.
We must stand up for fundamental rights in Europe and fight to ensure that everyone has freedom of expression in the European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the activities of the Italian Government represent a constant violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Do not do it again. (FI) Mr President, with the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon one of the most crucial new areas for our citizens' wellbeing is the Charter of Fundamental Rights, now binding on us all.
The next step is for the different EU institutions to focus on the monitoring and promotion of fundamental rights in all the Union's policy areas and in all Member States, in a way that is binding and effective as possible.
To achieve this, it is important that individuals as well as the different institutions work to ensure that the Directive on equal treatment, which at present has run aground in the Council, is taken forward and that, as a result, we acquire the legally binding means to intervene in cases of discrimination in Member States.
Tacit discrimination affects older people, for example. (NL) Mr President, I have, obviously, voted against this politically correct report.
The proposal to complement infringement procedures against Member States with a procedure that will block certain policy measures, until such time as the Commission decides whether or not to initiate formal infringement proceedings, is downright dangerous.
The example he gave was the word 'free'.
This report on human rights has moved from the concept of rights as a guarantee of personal liberty to a right as a claim on everybody else.
A vote of confidence took place yesterday in the Italian Parliament on a uninominal basis and under absolutely democratic conditions.
I voted in favour of the report on advertising.
It does not propose new legislation or regular advertising nor does it control or limit the Internet.
The report contributes to raising awareness on the need for responsible advertising to combat unfair commercial practices in advertising and to respect consumers' personal data and privacy.
Stop using Batman, Spiderman and Bamse against our children. (GA) Mr President, I welcome the Bendtsen report, and I voted for it.
We must emphasise energy conservation as a way of reducing energy demand and therefore of achieving energy efficiency throughout the European Union.
We frequently discuss the renewable energy sources, but it is very easy to forget our electricity consumption.
Last week a lot of people travelled a long way to Cancún, but they did not move far in the fight against climate change.
We did succeed in reaching some common ground there, and thus the most important thing is to continue the work the European Union had begun at home to reduce CO2 emissions.
The Member States must have effective national action plans in this area, including financial mechanisms.
There needs to be agreement between the Member States and the European Commission on specific assistance.
In the European Union the Europe 2000 programme has also committed us to energy efficiency, energy savings and the use of renewable energy sources.
As I said, it is important to adhere to the commitments that we have made. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the European Union cannot back down from the energy challenge that will decide the fate of the planet.
Europe must pioneer a new sustainable economic model, based on lower use of resources, including energy, with greater productivity.
We must therefore break the link between economic growth and an increase in energy sold to industries and the public and instead link it to an increase in energy services that create employment and energy efficiency.
For these reasons, I believe that energy efficiency represents a priority for the future of the EU, in both economic and environmental terms, and I hope that the Commission will immediately take the necessary measures to implement the binding objectives that Parliament established today. (FI) Mr President, I voted for a more binding and ambitious policy in this Energy Efficiency Action Plan, and I am very pleased with Parliament's final position in this matter.
Improved energy efficiency is a very crucial major project in this endeavour.
This Action Plan is a good step in that direction.
Mr President, I would like to ask you if you intend to tolerate these things despite the Rules of Procedure, because if this is the case I will attend all the explanations of vote in the future to speak in favour of the government that leads Italy legitimately, with the consensus of the country and its Parliament.
In the area of buildings, so much more could be done, particularly in relation to this building itself, the buildings in Brussels and many more public buildings.
It is very important that we should make them more energy efficient.
This principle, along with others, safeguards the good financial management of the Union.
As these are three areas where I believe in the Union's positive action, I did not hesitate to vote for this text.
Furthermore, investments in green innovations and the development of scientific research would stimulate the use of renewable sources of energy, which would facilitate the creation of new sustainable jobs in various sectors, including energy, manufacturing and transport.
in writing. - The Böge report on the use of the Flexibility Instrument can't count on my support.
The European Commission's proposal lacks an appropriate justification as regards the question of why this additional funding is necessary.
The Flexibility Instrument provides for the possibility of funding specifically identified expenditure that cannot be funded within the maximum limits available under one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework.
Because of the importance of these programmes, I intend to vote in favour of the proposal.
I agree with the need and consequent allocation of additional expenditure, beyond the ceilings of headings 1 and 4.
Considering the current economic situation, these expenses are vital from various viewpoints, for combating the crisis and also for our international credibility.
It is unacceptable that the financing of aid to Palestine, European education and training programmes and programmes to benefit competitiveness and free competition should be included in a single text.
The EU Solidarity Fund was created in order to demonstrate the European Union's solidarity with the populations of regions devastated by disasters.
in writing. - (DE) The amounts referred to in this report are totally unrealistic.
Apart from the fact that the current financial framework would need to be sufficient to cover these objectives, if there were to be an increase, significantly smaller amounts have been planned.
Adapting the financial framework to the proposals in the report would not increase the flexibility of the Union, but would restrict it.
This is extremely important, both in the area of acquiring new knowledge and skills as well as in making new acquaintances and encountering the cultures of the Member States.
A similar role - in relation to young people of school age - is played by the Comenius programme.
The European Commission has tabled a proposal to mobilise the Flexibility Instrument as part of the new budget 'manoeuvre' for 2011, after the failure of conciliation.
This is an important result for the European Parliament, because it marks a success in the dialogue with Council over the budget.
in writing. - (PT) I would like to applaud the agreement reached during the conciliation, in relation to the use of the Flexibility Instrument to fund, in particular, the Lifelong Learning Programme.
Only stringency and quality teaching can make Europe more competitive.
in writing. - The Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 allows for mobilisation of the Flexibility Instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework.
For the 2011 budget, additional expenditure is required above and beyond the ceilings of headings 1a and 4.
It is therefore proposed to mobilise the Flexibility Instrument in accordance with point 27 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
The amounts to be mobilised are as follows: EUR 18 million for the Lifelong Learning Programme under heading 1a; EUR 16 million for the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme under heading 1a; EUR 71 million for Palestine under heading 4.
in writing. - (PT) The community budget for 2011 represents EUR 141.8 billion on expenditure for authorisations and EUR 126.5 billion on expenditure for payments.
Thus, under the heading 1a - Competitiveness for growth and employment, there is an increase of EUR 18 million for the Lifelong Learning Programme, and under the heading 3b - Citizenship, there are EUR 3 million more for the youth in action programme.
I am pleased about the commitment by the next four presidencies of the EU (the governments of Hungary, Poland, Denmark and Cyprus) towards involving the European Parliament in future conversations and negotiations relating to the next multi-annual financial framework (MFF).
I applaud the commitment by the European Commission to present a formal proposal towards the end of June 2011, ensuring that the proposals relating to its own resources are discussed at the same time as the MFF.
The involvement of the European Parliament in these matters is also provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon (Articles 312, No 5, 324 and 311).
I voted for adoption of the budget in view of its underlying political and institutional principles which propose, among other things, strengthening of the role of the European Parliament in negotiations on the new Financial Framework after 2013 and participation in the debate on new sources of income, which includes the Euro tax.
Much credit for this is due to the position of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
Adoption of the 2011 budget testifies to the fact that it is possible to agree a compromise in the European Union.
The draft of the financial plan for 2011 was accepted and voted through thanks to the good will of all the institutions which helped create it.
This compromise should be particularly appreciated because the decision-making procedures following entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon are new ones, and for the first time in history the European Parliament has made a joint decision on expenditure on an equal footing with the Council of the European Union and the European Commission.
It is not an ideal budget, but I do think that outlays have been apportioned in a sensible way and cover all the priorities of the European Union.
In voting for adoption of the 2011 budget, I also expressed my support for further development and for the idea of European integration.
I voted in favour of this report, as the community budget for 2011, which was presented by the parliamentary Budgets committee during the part-session, strengthens funding for the priorities defined by the European Parliament, such as education, innovation, the peace process in the Middle East and Palestine, the Lifelong Learning Programme, the "People” research programme, and the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme.
I congratulate Parliament, the Council and the Commission for also having agreed that, if additional funds are needed to comply with EU legal obligations, there will be amending budgets throughout 2011, given that, legally, the EU budget cannot be in deficit.
In addition to the budget, Parliament had certain political requirements relating to the implementation of the rules laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon, namely with regard to a new system of own resources, and in relation to these it is good to know that the EC has now announced that it will present a formal initiative towards the end of June 2011, ensuring that proposals relating to the own resources are discussed at the same time as the future Financial Perspective.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution and supported the EU budget for the year 2011.
I am convinced that it was necessary to allocate more funds to education, research and innovation as the EU needs to increase its efficiency and competitiveness to be able to rise from the financial and economic crisis.
In order to reach this goal, the EU has to create a long-term strategy and this budget should be a part of it.
At the same time, this well thought out game highlighted the serious competition between the imperialists and the fact that Community bodies are jostling for position as to who can best serve the interests of the plutocracy following the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon.
In the current context of budgetary cuts, the Council of the European Union, which represents the governments of the Member States, wanted to make the Union take a part in the austerity measures that European countries are imposing on themselves.
Despite the fact that the European Parliament, as well as the Commission, wanted, on the contrary, the crisis to be tackled by voluntary policies, it sided with the position of the Council, in a clear display of solidarity with the Member States.
For the first time since the new treaty came into force, the European Parliament has used the powers it was granted to participate fully in the composition of the European Union budget.
Therefore I believe that in future there must be fundamental changes in the operating principles of the institutions themselves and the inclusion of the European Parliament in all stages of negotiations, particularly budgetary, must be considered as particularly important for the implementation of the principle of representative democracy.
With the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament now plays on a level playing field with the Council and has made its mark as a proactive force.
In 2011 Europe will keep its priorities on target.
On the proposal of Parliament, in 2011 the Commission will begin discussions on the different types of own resources, resources which Europe needs to guarantee its financial autonomy in the future.
However, I am deeply concerned that Parliament has not found a consensus on the additional funding that the 'Iter' project will need from 2012.
The experimental thermonuclear reactor, a flagship project of international research and European scientific dynamism, could have benefited from an unused and surplus portion of the 2011 budget.
Parliament, after having acquitted itself well in the negotiations with the Council on the 2011 budget, on the conditions for the drawing up of the next multiannual financial framework and the question of the Union's own resources, has lost the battle.
The positive thing is that the Commission will also present a proposal in the spring of 2011 on the question of own resources.
It is obvious that you cannot develop programmes supporting young people, innovation and research and you cannot claim to be an active player in global foreign policy without the funds designed to finance all these plans.
Parliament has argued successfully with the Council for the need to carry out regular evaluations of the benefits of new legislation and its funding.
I am pleased with the budget approved today, as it retains the priority lines adopted by Parliament in October, which strengthen key areas such as education, youth, research and innovation.
It is essential to provide the EU with a sustainable budget that may be implemented in a full and foreseeable manner from the start of the financial year, in contrast to a system of provisional twelfths that would put the implementation of its policies at risk.
Only through an ambitious budget will economic recovery be possible in Europe.
in writing. - (FR) The 2011 budget was voted with responsibility, bitterness and conviction.
Despite the concessions made by Parliament, some Member States who, unlike me, do not believe in the added value of the European budget, have remained inflexible.
We need a Trade and Transport Facilitation (TTF), and also a 2011 budget and therefore I abstained on the amendment retabled by the Greens on this issue, which was symbolic but irresponsible.
I voted in favour of the report relating to the new draft budget for 2011 because it strengthens funding in areas that have been defined as priorities by the European Parliament, such as education, innovation, competitiveness and cohesion for growth and employment, as well as the conservation and management of natural resources.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2011.
However, we abstained from voting on both the text and the proposed budget lines relating to new own resources for the EU.
The outcome of the budget debate for 2011 was foreseeable, taking into account the responsibilities of the Council and the main political groups within this Parliament, whether in the definition and acceptance of the current multi-annual financial framework, or in the approval of subsequent budgets which this will have to cover.
I welcome the agreement between the European Parliament and the governments of the 27 Member States, especially, because in the absence of this agreement the payments which Irish farmers will receive next year would be delayed.
The threat of the introduction of a provisional budget for 2011 mobilised the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to intensify discussions, the result of which - the draft budget which was voted on today - can be considered a pragmatic compromise.
The negotiations held between the institutions led to inclusion of most of the proposals being advocated by Parliament.
Parliament has also reached agreement on this matter with the Prime Ministers of Hungary, Poland, Denmark and Cyprus, in other words with those Member States which in the next two years will hold the Presidency of the EU Council.
We are also pleased with the Council's decision to maintain the flexibility mechanism in the European Union budget at a level of 0.03% of EU GDP.
These funds will allow the financing of crucial expenditures which were not foreseen during negotiations over the previous Financial Framework, such as the European External Action Service and the Galileo system, for example.
A concession on the part of Parliament is postponement of the debate on future sources of finance for the European Union, something for which the European Commission has also called.
The EU budget cannot, as some MEPs argue, be used as a supplement to national budgets in a time of austerity; rather, it should reflect the difficult situation in which EU Member States find themselves.
That is why the Conservatives originally tabled an amendment calling for a long-term freeze in payments at 2010 levels, a move that would do much to assure citizens that the EU is doing its bit to bring long-term public spending under control and onto a more sustainable footing.
So, given the positioning of certain Member States, there is a real risk that this project will flounder.
The agreement reached between the European Parliament and the EU Council has allowed the use of a provisional budget to be avoided - something which could undermine pursuit of EU cohesion and agricultural policy.
I am also pleased by the increase in resources for the priority areas adopted by Parliament, including youth, education, research and innovation.
However, I do deplore the lack of flexibility that this new budget imposes as well as the choice made by certain political groups, especially the Socialists, to jeopardise ITER, the only fundamental long-term research project in which the European Union plays a leading role, by deferring the vote on its funding.
By foregoing EUR 600 million of credits available to finance ITER against a backdrop of crisis where European public money is scarce, the Socialists have displayed their irresponsibility and inconsistency and are jeopardising a strategic project that creates jobs.
I am pleased that despite the many complications, it has been possible to agree and adopt the EU budget for 2011 after the modifications made by the Council.
It is important that we have reached a political agreement.
Furthermore, Parliament wanted to maintain some reserves in the 2011 budget.
in writing. - (PT) After intense negotiations, it was finally possible to reach an agreement for the 2011 budget; it was not the ideal budget, but it is nevertheless a document that will enable the objectives proposed by the EU to be achieved.
This community budget for 2011, adopted today in part-session, strengthens funding for the priorities defined by the European Parliament, such as education, innovation, and the peace process in the Middle East and Palestine.
in writing. - Taking into account the countless number of bureaucrats in the European Parliament, as well as in the European Commission, this resolution brings the European Community closer to the well-considered and effective distribution of EC resources in the course of time.
I have carefully examined other statements in the report and am glad to discover that certain persons in Parliament understand the need to use money in time, not when it is too late.
in writing. - (DE) As was the case with the last proposal to increase the budget for 2011, I have also had to oppose this one in the interests of the citizens of Europe.
The latest increase is justified on the grounds of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the new institutions that it has created, such as the European External Action Service.
With great foresight the Freedom Party of Austria voted against the Treaty of Lisbon, which, while it brought a few benefits, primarily resulted in an increase in red tape and in costs for the citizens.
During this year's budgetary negotiations, my fellow Members of the European Parliament also entered into agreements with the Council and the Commission on a number of political demands concerning the budget.
in writing. - (IT) The draft budget amended by the European Council does not fully reflect the needs and requirements outlined by Parliament, but the European Union cannot be left without an approved budget during the first few months of 2011.
This is why, during the trilogue held on 6 December, the Commission, the Council and Parliament found the right compromise for a budget that may be implemented in full from the very beginning of the 2011 financial year.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution as I considered that, despite the draft budget amended by the Council not entirely satisfying the real need for a Union budget that is sustainable, coherent and effective, Parliament's objective of providing the Union with a budget that is able to be implemented in a full and predictable manner starting from the beginning of the financial year was achieved.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution as I agreed that, although the draft budget amended by the Council does not entirely satisfy the real need for a Union budget that is sustainable, coherent and effective, Parliament's objective was to provide the Union with a budget that can be implemented in a full and predictable manner starting from the beginning of the financial year.
It was a very special moment, last month, when all the political groups stepped up to the plate to achieve a political agreement, beyond the 2011 budget, on the future financing of the EU.
So, after all the hullabaloo they caused during the negotiations, the three main political groups gave in on the final straight.
The European Parliament, despite drawing on its new powers, has just passed up on the chance to impose itself in its role as a decision-maker on budgetary matters.
The best instrument for achieving this is, using the same method as the Convention, to bring together European and national parliaments, national governments and the European Commission.
We are about to approve the European Union budget for 2011, which is being done, for the first time, in accordance with the new regime of the Treaty of Lisbon.
In 2011, special attention needs to be paid to the theme of Youth, Education and Mobility, a priority that has been taken into account in all sections of the budget.
Considering the importance of the policy of cohesion as an overarching element of all European policies, I welcome its planned inclusion in the document that is key to the successful implementation of this policy.
Because of the reasons set out and because I believe that the European Union is going through a period that requires more effort in terms of making Europe stronger and more competitive, while retaining the need to strengthen inter-institutional dialogue, I am voting in favour of this draft presented by Parliament.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - The 2011 budget has been decided in challenging and unstable times.
At a time when we are seeing severe cuts being made to budgets in member states, it is now more important than ever to make sure Europe is providing the resources to deal with the effects of the crisis.
in writing. - Labour MEPs have voted against the budget package because, at a time when such severe cuts are being made to domestic public spending, we do not believe it is appropriate for the EU budget to increase.
I also agree that the functioning and added value of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the Inter-Institutional Agreement of 17 May 2006, within the framework of the 2007-2013 multi-annual financial framework mid-term review process.
in writing. - (PT) Assistance to workers made redundant due to restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be implemented rapidly and effectively.
It is also important to emphasise that this assistance is not a substitute for the responsibilities that normally lies with the companies, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of companies.
Bearing in mind that the Netherlands submitted a request for assistance in relation to 613 cases of redundancy that have occurred in two companies within Division 18 (wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles) of NACE Rev. 2 in the region of Northern Holland, I am voting in favour of this Report or, to put it another way, in favour of mobilising the EGF to support the Netherlands.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was created to respond to situations like these.
It is in this context that this intervention plan for the Netherlands is being put forward, in relation to 613 redundancies that have occurred within two companies operating within division 46 of NACE Rev. 2 (wholesale trade, except motor vehicles and motorcycles) within the NUTS Level 2 region of North Holland, in the Netherlands.
I therefore hope that the European institutions will strengthen their commitment to implementing measures to speed up and improve the rates for use of such an important resource as the EGF, which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the 500 million euros available has been requested.
in writing. - (PT) The EU is an area of solidarity and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is a part of this.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is appropriate to provide aid to the Netherlands, which has submitted a request for mobilisation of the EGF in respect of 613 redundancies that have occurred within two companies operating within division 46 of NACE Rev. 2 (wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles) within the NUTS Level 2 region of North Holland, in the Netherlands.
in writing. - (DE) Employees who have lost their jobs as a result of the financial and economic crisis should be given the opportunity to return quickly to the world of work.
The Member States are obliged to take appropriate measures to support these people.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund provides funding for this purpose which the Member States can apply for.
in writing. - (PT) Given that the Netherlands has requested assistance in respect of 613 cases of redundancy that have occurred in two companies operating within division 46 of NACE Rev. 2 (wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the NUTS Level 2 region of Northern Holland in the Netherlands, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the European Commission's proposal and with the respective amendments to it tabled by the European Parliament.
I fully agree with the rapporteur Mrs Matera, who is pleased to observe that the Commission keeps identifying alternative sources of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund resources, in accordance with the frequent requests in the past from the European Parliament.
I also agree with the rapporteur that the alternatives chosen in the last cases (budgets line dedicated to the support of entrepreneurship and innovation) are not satisfactory given the severe shortcomings that the Commission encounters when implementing the programmes on competitiveness and innovation.
In a period of economic crisis these appropriations should be in fact rather increased.
The rapporteur invites therefore the Commission to continue in her effort to identify more appropriate budget lines for payments in the future.
in writing. - (PT) The request submitted by the Netherlands for assistance under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in relation to 613 redundancies that occurred within two companies operating within division 46 (wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles) of NACE Rev. 2 within the NUTS II region of North Holland fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
Indeed, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and Council, of 18 June 2009, which amended Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 of the European Parliament and Council on 20 December 2006 and established the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily widened as it was expected to be able intervene in situations like this if, as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, within a level 2 division of NACE in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS Level 2'.
in writing. - With this vote, the EP: (1) calls on the institutions involved to take the necessary action to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF; (2) recalls the institutions' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis and emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market; (3) stresses that, in accordance with Article 6 of the EGF Regulation, it should be ensured that the EGF supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment and reiterates that assistance from the EGF must not replace either actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, or measures restructuring companies or sectors.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on the mobilisation of the European Global Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the workers in the information and communications technology (ICT) sector, made redundant in the Noord Holland region of the Netherlands.
Europe's ICT sector has been hit by both the global financial and economic crisis and the structural changes in the global IT market, especially due to the relocation of production to China and India, also reflected by the ICT 5 indicator.
The ICT 5 indicator is a summary of the main research results linked to the business cycle, costs and budgets allocated to the ICT sector.
This indicator for Western Europe has fallen from a value of approximately 160 in August 2008 to approximately 30 in April 2009.
The Netherlands has prepared a coordinated package of personalised services for the 613 workers made redundant from two businesses belonging to the company Randstad, such as offering guidance on the transition from one job to another, setting up mobility centres, placing staff made redundant, providing professional training and researching employability.
The total budget required is EUR 3 934 055 and the Netherlands submitted an application on 8 April 2010 to obtain a financial contribution of EUR 2 557 135 from the EGF.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted in favour of the draft report.
in writing. - (DE) This application is just one of a large number of applications from the Netherlands which we have recently approved in the Committee on Budgets.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe that in the EU there needs to be enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce or legal separation.
The Union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is assured, therefore in order to allow the spouses to choose an applicable law with which they have a close connection or, in the absence of such choice, in order that that law might apply to their divorce or legal separation, the law in question should apply even if it is not that of a participating Member State.
The need to establish a clear, comprehensive legal framework on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation arises out of an urgent need to address the problems that arise in the case of 'international' divorces.
One of the innovative ideas contained in the text of the regulation is the possibility of consulting a family mediator before, during and after the divorce proceedings.
Fortunately, since the 1997 Treaty of Amsterdam, Member States which so wish can come together to make progress in a specific field, through 'enhanced cooperation', in such a way that a core of leading States can be set up to move the Union forward.
The problems encountered by spouses in having their status recognised across Europe, particularly during a divorce or legal separation, have led certain States to come together to improve the coordination of national regulations.
In the future, such enforced cooperation must be used as often as is necessary.
Secondly, it is also regrettable that only 15 out of the 27 Member States are prepared to sign up to this enhanced cooperation, which will be detrimental to the citizens of the countries that do not do so.
It is therefore my hope and wish that, in the future, the scope of application can be extended, and the number of countries subscribing to this enhanced cooperation can be increased: they owe it to the citizens that they represent.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament report on enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation, because a clear and explicit legal basis must be established, according to which rules would be applied related to the applicable law.
I would like to point out that one of the European Union's main objectives is to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice, in which freedom of movement of persons is guaranteed.
I would like to stress that the new regulation proposed should create legal certainty for the couples concerned and guarantee predictability and flexibility.
The aim of this measure is to establish a clear, comprehensive legal framework in the legislation applicable to divorce and legal separation, by allowing the parties a certain degree of autonomy.
The diversified nature of these rules in the Member States may, in fact, create problems in the case of 'international' divorces.
The European Union must therefore limit these risks and shortcomings by introducing the possibility of choosing the applicable law by mutual agreement between the parties.
I therefore agree with the need to ensure the parties fair and accurate information that allows them to be aware of their choices as soon as possible.
Under the Treaty of Lisbon, Member States may now work in enhanced cooperation in the area of freedom, security and justice, and more specifically on matters of divorce and legal separation.
This regulation defines enhanced cooperation between certain Member States (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia and Spain).
The main objective of this is to rule out any discrimination on the grounds of sex, to guarantee equal opportunities for both spouses, and to give central priority to the welfare of the children.
The purpose of this regulation is to improve legal certainty for the couples concerned, and at the same time, to guarantee the predictability and flexibility of the proceedings.
I supported the regulation, even when it does not currently affect the Czech Republic.
This proposal does not seek to harmonise the substantive law applicable to divorce and legal separation, but to establish harmonised rules for resolving international jurisdictional conflicts.
What this means is that we need to work within the framework of international private law and not within the substantive framework of family law, wherein each State will continue to have its own laws.
In the light of the above, I can only see the provision for greater legal certainty with regard to the resolution of conflicts of international jurisdiction within the context of family law, most especially with regard to the dissolution of marriage and legal separation, as an important step for constructing an environment of freedom and justice, in which the freedom of movement of people is a reality.
in writing. - (PT) I am delighted with the adoption of this report, which should enable couples, from different Member States or residing in another country that is not their own, to choose the law that should apply to their divorce.
I would emphasise the need for this report not to result in a Member State being required to recognise as a marriage - even if solely for the purposes of its dissolution - a situation that is not considered as such by the legislation of that State, or which would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for dealing so thoroughly with such a difficult subject as the issue of the choice of law applicable to divorce and legal separation.
Just how delicate a matter this is can be seen by the fact that Rome III is the first example in the EU's history of enhanced cooperation conducted in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Treaties.
The territorial range of force of the regulation will, therefore, be restricted to 14 out of the 27 EU Member States.
I think that by introducing a principle which enables parties to choose the law applicable in divorce, Rome III will contribute to greater legal predictability and certainty.
If two people of different nationalities or simply two people who no longer reside in the same Member State are planning to divorce, they should know which court has jurisdiction and in which country.
From now on, these two divorcing people will soon be in a position to choose which European Union legal system will govern their divorce.
While I welcome the adoption of this report and the use for the first time of what is called the enhanced cooperation procedure, I do regret that this procedure needed to be used and that no agreement could be reached between all the EU Member States.
I do hope that other Member States will be part of this cooperation soon.
The proposal for a regulation on enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation helps to address the commonly occurring complex and sensitive issues that are associated with divorce proceedings for valid marriages, which are entered into by people of different nationalities.
in writing. - (PT) The new regulation will enable international couples (couples with different nationalities, couples who live in different countries or couples who live together in a different country to their country of origin) to choose the national law to be applicable to their divorce, provided that one of the partners has a connection with the country in question, for example, habitual residence or nationality.
The new rules also clarify the law that is applicable in the case of there being no agreement between the partners.
The new regulation will enable, for example, a Spanish/Portuguese couple living in Belgium to choose whether the law to be applicable to their divorce should be Portuguese, Spanish or Belgian.
in writing. - Divorce is a serious matter.
in writing. - (DE) Separation and divorce are always difficult matters and involve a whole series of legal consequences.
We have been looking for a solution within the European Union, but we have only been able to agree on an enhanced cooperation procedure, which makes the situation only slightly easier for those affected, in other words, the couples from different EU Member States who are divorcing.
I voted in favour of the report because I believe it is necessary to establish a clear and comprehensive legal framework on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation.
This enhanced cooperation is being applied in the area of the law applicable to divorce and the legal separation of people and property.
I voted in favour of this report relating to the Regulation, which establishes clear rules on the procedure for international couples (where the spouses are of different nationalities) seeking a divorce or a legal separation of people or property in their countries of origin or residence.
It is also a symbolic moment, being the first time that enhanced cooperation between EU Member States has been applied.
The aim of these provisions is to strengthen legal certainty and predictability with regard to divorce and the legal separation of people and property.
The agreement only provides for the harmonisation of conflict situations, and not for the harmonisation of basic national rules.
One of the European Union's main objectives is to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice, in which freedom of movement of persons is guaranteed.
in writing. - (RO) Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Greece (withdrew its request on 3 March 2010), Spain, France, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, Austria, Portugal, Romania and Slovenia submitted a request to the Commission indicating that they intended to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the area of applicable law in matrimonial matters and invited the Commission to present a proposal on this to the Council.
They have been habitually resident for three years in a Member State which does not permit same-sex marriages but participated in the adoption of the regulation on applicable law under the enhanced cooperation procedure.
A and B wish to dissolve their marriage.
The cooperation that the report discusses is voluntary for the Member States of the EU and, as things currently stand, there are 14 countries taking part.
in writing. - (DE) With 16 million marriages between partners of different nationalities in the EU, of which an estimated 140 000 end in divorce every year, negotiations and an agreement on this question are essential in order to guarantee the necessary legal certainty for citizens.
After numerous initiatives in this area have been vetoed by individual Member States, the enhanced cooperation procedure has now given at least 14 countries the opportunity to put in place the necessary criteria.
I voted in favour of this report because the world financial crisis, to which the credit rating agencies contributed in part, has demonstrated the need to introduce a mechanism for the classification and supervision of credit rating agencies.
I agree with this report in its encouragement of the creation, at a European level, of a system for the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies that issue ratings used within the EU, and its consideration of conditions for the use within the EU of ratings issued by agencies in third countries.
It is essential that, from its inception, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) is in a position to exercise its powers so as to ensure the vigorous supervision of credit rating agencies active within the EU, as well as those from third countries whose ratings are authorised within the EU, in full cooperation with their national authorities.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe that there is a need to set up a mechanism for monitoring and supervising credit rating agencies.
The global financial crisis, to which the credit rating agencies made their contribution, had an influence on this initiative.
I agree with the European Commission's proposal to organise the accreditation and supervision of credit rating agencies by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
However, these agencies' opinions can sometimes seriously impact the economy of the country whose financial regularity they are rating.
Based on the report by my excellent colleague and friend Jean-Paul Gauzès from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I voted for the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the 2009 regulation on credit rating agencies and granting the all-new European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) supervisory powers over these entities.
in writing. - (LT) The global financial crisis showed the need to set up a mechanism for monitoring and supervising credit rating agencies.
There is a need for EU-wide joint oversight of credit rating agencies and integrated supervision of them.
There needs to be a reliable supervisory and control system and I therefore support the proposed amendments which will strengthen the European Securities and Markets Authority.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report because the economic and financial crisis that has affected the whole world showed the need to set up a mechanism for monitoring and supervising credit rating agencies.
I agree with the European Parliament's position that there is a need for EU-wide joint oversight of credit rating agencies' products and integrated supervision of them.
It is vital for the ESMA, as soon as it is established, to be in a position to exercise its remit to ensure sound supervision of credit rating agencies operating in the European Union and also third-country agencies whose ratings will be authorised in the European Union.
I abstained in the vote on the report on credit rating agencies.
The increase in spreads increases countries' financial problems and enriches the markets at their expense.
In the euro area in particular, the role and practices of credit rating agencies also has a negative effect on the stability of the euro.
The report contains some positive but, unfortunately, weak proposals and only takes timid steps in this direction.
We must now ensure that ESMA is in a position to exercise its powers and to ensure the vigorous supervision of credit rating agencies active within the European Union, as well as those from third countries whose ratings are authorised within the European Union.
This report is a technical amendment to the existing directive, and it will confer powers on the new supervisory authority, EMSA, from January 2011 onwards.
None of these agencies has been penalised, neither by their customers nor by their reputation being tarnished, for not having done their work properly during the Enron or subprime crises.
The regulation covers both the supervision of credit rating agencies by the European Securities and Markets Authority and supervision of the use of credit ratings by individual entities supervised at national level.
The national supervisory authorities will remain responsible for supervising the use of credit ratings by these individual entities.
This is the very point on which the proposal is being examined in terms of compliance with the principle of proportionality.
The proposal creates a control system but, within the context of the current neoliberal environment, there is no provision for real, essential application of it; it is merely a psychologically novel action directly mainly at the public at large.
It is not designed to replace a previous system; it is designed to introduce a new control system which has not previously existed, even in this form, which is what allowed the credit rating agencies to steam ahead regardless in the first place.
I voted in favour of the report on the introduction of centralised supervision of credit rating agencies.
Centralised supervision could lead to increased transparency in the world of credit rating agencies and could promote greater competition between the different agencies.
However, I am concerned that the proposed period during which all the changes regarding the transfer of competencies and duties from the relevant supervisory bodies in the Member States to ESMA is too short, and so I think it should be extended.
I approved of this report because the global financial crisis, to which the credit rating agencies made their contribution, showed the need to set up a mechanism for monitoring and supervising credit rating agencies.
It also lays down the conditions for the use in the European Union of ratings issued by third-country agencies.
The agreement reached on the architecture of European supervision which will enter into force on 1 January 2011 provides that the ESMA will exercise its own supervisory powers in relation, in particular, to credit rating agencies.
We must take note of the fact that credit rating agencies contributed, in part, to the crisis.
In 2011 we will receive a proposal from the Commission in relation to various supplementary measures concerning ratings, and introducing such measures will be possible after adoption of this report.
in writing. - (PT) There is a need to move towards this change so that Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 can be adapted to the new European supervisory architecture and so that a new mechanism for the centralisation of the operations of rating agencies can be introduced.
Thus the European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority - ESMA) will be given its own powers of supervision, investigation and for the application of sanctions.
in writing. - (ES) I was not able to support this report, as although I am in favour of many of the points included and of the general propositions of increased transparency and improved information and supervision for credit agencies and other financial entities, this proposal will serve the interests of investors, who are professionals far removed from what has been described as the 'real economy', since it gives them greater legal security.
in writing. - It is a very important instrument to inform EU citizens about the situation in the companies and banks, but also to compare the competitiveness of different brands and articles.
I also hope that in future this regulation will be completed by control of the rates of political parties and the mass media in order to prevent the manipulation of public opinion for money.
in writing. - (DE) More than anything else the financial crisis has made it clear to us that credit rating agencies have a dangerous monopoly and that their evaluations are not always adequate and are sometimes highly risky.
In addition, the report lays down the conditions under which ratings issued by third-country agencies can be used in the European Union.
It made it possible to establish a European system for registering and supervising credit rating agencies which issue ratings used in the European Union.
It also lays down the conditions for the use in the European Union of ratings issued by third-country agencies, by applying a double system of equivalence and endorsement of ratings.
It is, in fact, vital for the ESMA, as soon as it is established, to be in a position to exercise its remit to ensure sound supervision of credit rating agencies operating in the EU and also third-country agencies whose ratings will be authorised in the EU.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution as I agree that the transparency of the information provided by the issuer of a financial instrument rated by a designated credit rating agency may potentially represent substantial added value for the functioning of the market and the protection of investors.
in writing. - The global financial crisis, to which the credit rating agencies made their contribution, showed the need to set up a mechanism for monitoring and supervising these agencies.
It also lays down the conditions for the use in the European Union of ratings issued by third-country agencies, by applying a double system of equivalence and endorsement of ratings.
During the debates preceding the adoption of Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, your rapporteur stressed the need for EU-wide joint oversight of credit rating agencies' products and integrated supervision of them.
This principle was upheld and the Commission undertook to draft a legislative proposal along these lines.
The agreement reached on the architecture of European supervision which will enter into force on 1 January 2011 now makes the effective implementation of rating agency supervision possible.
It is stressed in the regulation establishing the ESMA that this authority will exercise its own supervisory powers in relation, in particular, to credit rating agencies.
The regulation covers both the supervision of credit rating agencies by the European Securities and Markets Authority and supervision of the use of credit ratings by individual entities supervised at national level.
The national supervisory authorities will remain responsible for supervising the use of credit ratings by these individual entities.
Nonetheless, the national authorities will not have the power to take supervisory measures against credit rating agencies in the event of infringement of the regulation.
This is the very point on which the proposal is being checked in terms of compliance with the principle of proportionality.
The proposal creates a control system for which, within the context of the current neoliberal environment, there is no provision for real, essential application above and beyond its psychologically novel action, which is directly mainly at the public at large.
However, it is not designed to replace a previous system; it is designed to introduce a new control system which has not previously existed, even in this form, which is what allowed the credit rating agencies to steam ahead regardless.
in writing. - (DE) I was happy to vote in favour of this report.
The gradual process of regulating the financial markets is beginning to take shape.
in writing. - (DE) The worldwide financial crisis, which was in part caused by credit rating agencies, has made it necessary to set up a mechanism for monitoring and supervising these agencies.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because it contributes to the necessary simplification of the EU legal framework.
At the same time I share the rapporteur's position that the Member States should be given more time to investigate whether repealing the Directives will lead to legal uncertainty which makes European harmonisation of rules necessary.
I therefore believe that a solution must be adopted which repeals the Directives, but also provides sufficient time to analyse the possible consequences in context with the broader review of the basic legal instrument in this field.
The adoption of the metric system, for example, led to improved collaboration between the various economic operators on the continent and then globally.
However, a wide variety of measurements and measuring systems prevail in many fields.
Through a desire to remove these barriers to cooperation between Europeans, the Union has a longstanding policy of harmonising measuring systems.
Directive 2004/22 was an important step in this movement.
The directives in question are obsolete and do not contribute to better regulation.
The Commission believes that there is no need to harmonise legislation on metrology, as its understanding is that there is sufficient cooperation between Member States and that the current situation of the common recognition of rules based on the international parameters of the different Member States is satisfactory.
However, it needs to be taken into account that it would be detrimental to have a void in the regulation on this issue, and that we should not contribute to legal uncertainties.
However, for reasons of improved regulation, the Commission favours the revocation in its entirety of all of the directives, that is to say, it favours new regulation within the framework of measuring instruments.
I favour this choice by the Commission from a legislative excellence point of view, although I believe that the Member States should be given sufficient time to analyse the possible consequences within the context of a broader review of the basic legal instrument in this area, namely the Directive relating to measuring instruments (Directive 2004/22/EC).
With regard to metrology, the understanding is that there is no need to proceed with any harmonisation, as the legislation in place is a common recognition of rules based on the international parameters of the various Member States.
in writing. - (ES) I voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and the Council repealing eight Council directives regarding metrology as, like the rapporteur, I support the general objective of better legislation.
I also support the view that 'Member States should be given more time to investigate whether repealing the directives will lead to legal uncertainty'.
I believe that these directives concerning measuring instruments need to be repealed and simplified by revising the legal basis for metrology: the Directive on measuring instruments.
In general I think it is a positive step to simplify EU legislation, as it will improve access for citizens to that legislation and make it possible to work more efficiently in that field.
in writing. - (DE) Eight EU directives currently cover the field of metrology in six different areas.
However, the rapporteur is of the opinion that the Member States should be given more time to investigate whether repealing the directives will lead to legal uncertainty.
Repealing European directives essentially means leaving a regulatory vacuum in the European Union's system, but modernising a system such as that of the directives on metrology is certainly a step toward a broader and more up-to-date common system.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the report repealing the eight Council directives on metrology.
The Commission was favouring the complete revocation of all eight directives relating to metrology; however, the rapporteur's position is more balanced, giving Member States more time to investigate whether revocation of the directives will lead to legal uncertainty, making it necessary for there to be European harmonisation of the rules relating to metrology.
A transitional period is thus established in order to analyse the possible consequences of the revocation of the directives, and to analyse the need to review the basic directive in this area (Directive 2004/22/EC).
To reiterate, I agree with the rapporteur, who is of the opinion that Member States should be given more time to investigate whether repealing the directives will lead to legal uncertainty which makes European harmonisation of rules necessary.
in writing. - (RO) Repealing all eight directives will most likely lead to additional administrative burdens as Members States will be able to introduce national provisions implementing the measuring instruments covered by the directives being repealed.
I think that Member States should be given more time to investigate whether repealing the directives would lead to legal uncertainty which would make the harmonisation of European rules necessary.
Consequently, I voted for this report as it opts for a solution where the directives will be repealed, but also provides sufficient time to analyse the possible consequences in the context of the broad review of the basic legal instrument in this field, the Measurement Instruments Directive (2004/22/EC).
The EP is of the opinion that Member States should be given more time to investigate whether repealing the directives will lead to legal uncertainty which makes European harmonisation of rules necessary.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted in favour of the report, because it makes a significant contribution to reducing bureaucracy, which is something that is constantly being called for, and allows more than 20 directives that are obsolete or no longer needed to be repealed.
in writing. - (LT) I approved of this important resolution because I am convinced that the European citizens' initiative will be a powerful agenda-setting instrument and will foster greater cross-border debates within the EU.
The citizens' initiative gives European citizens the right to make a legislative proposal.
For this initiative to be effective the organisers of a European citizens' initiative should gather into a citizens' committee composed of persons coming from different Member States.
It is also very important that the process is in line with the EU data protection requirements and that it is fully transparent, from the start until the end.
The citizens' initiative was promised in the Treaty of Lisbon and is now finally being implemented.
This new form of participation in the formulation of European Union policy allows European citizens to directly approach the Commission asking it to table a proposal on matters of interest to them, provided these fall within the framework of the EU's powers.
The million signatures that are required must come from at least one quarter of the EU Member States and must be gathered within 12 months.
All the signatures must be submitted by European Union citizens old enough to vote in the European parliamentary elections.
It is believed that the introduction of the initiative will establish a direct link between the citizens and the institutions, thus bridging the gap between them and ensuring that the EU institutions will address the concrete problems which are of importance to them.
Through the ECI, EU citizens can appeal directly to the European Commission to initiate a legal act.
It is also necessary to ensure that the process is in line with the EU data protection requirements.
After a compromise was reached on the rules governing the European citizens' initiative, the report was adopted by a very large majority: 628 for and only 15 against and 24 abstentions.
The concept is simple, it is a sort of petition at European level: a citizens' committee made up of members from at least seven Member States will have a year to collect one million signatures on a subject of public interest which requires the attention of the Commission.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report because the European citizens' initiative, introduced in the Treaty of Lisbon is a huge step towards closer relations between the European Union and European citizens.
This is a new, important step which the EU is taking and Parliament will therefore receive feedback from the citizens whom it represents on whether it is doing a good job or not.
Parliament's key demands have been accepted, such as the admissibility check right at the start rather than carrying out a check after the first 300 000 signatures have been collected.
Despite this, the final text is a much better version than the text originally proposed, in that it sets the minimum at a quarter of the Member States, proposes that initiatives be registered immediately and requires the Commission to organise a public hearing for every successful initiative and to guarantee absolute transparency in connection with the funding of each initiative.
The possibility of a million citizens of a significant number of Member States being able to put forward a legislative initiative should contribute to the strengthening by European citizenship of civil society organised at an EU level.
In particular, I do not agree with the provision requesting signatories in the majority of Member States to give their personal ID numbers.
In future, the Commission will have to consider drawing up a new European law when there is demand to do so from one million citizens from at least one quarter of all Member States.
This new instrument therefore gives European citizens the ability to genuinely influence the legislative process, by bringing a demand or a concern raised by the people's will to European level.
It is a victory for our movement which has consistently called for bringing the European Union closer to its citizens by building a more solid, a more transparent and a more accessible Europe.
I am pleased that I voted, along with the huge majority of Members, in favour of the report on the 'citizens' initiative', which introduces an unprecedented dose of popular participation in the EU's legislative process.
in writing. - (DE) Some small improvements have been made in comparison with the original draft.
Therefore, I have voted in favour of the report.
The proposals adopted by the European Parliament should enable the rules relating to the citizens' initiative to be made clearer, simpler and easier to apply.
From now on it will be possible for European citizens to submit a request that the European Commission proposes legislation on a given issue, provided that a minimum number of signatories coming from at least one-fifth of Member States is guaranteed.
This should be the yardstick, as proposed by the Commission in sections 7 and 2 of Article 3 of the proposal.
Each initiative will have 12 months to collect one million signatures, which need to come from at least a quarter of Member States, currently seven.
In Portugal's case, the minimum number of signatories required to support an initiative will be 16 500.
The validity of declarations of support will be gauged by the Member States.
Signatories should be EU citizens and be old enough to be able to vote in European elections (18 in Portugal).
It will then be up to the Commission to analyse the initiative and decide, within a timeframe of three months, if it will put forward European legislation on the issue.
The joint work by the two co-rapporteurs showed that even ideological divisions can be overcome when work is carried out effectively and in the interests of citizens.
This underlying position is typical of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which is always pro-active, open to dialogue and cooperation, but at the same time is anchored in solid and unshakeable values.
In other words, after all the work of collecting signatures and fulfilling the requirements that the draft regulation lays down, there are no guarantees that the citizens' wishes will be taken into account.
We have all been waiting for it ever since the Treaty of Lisbon came into force last year: the regulation on the citizens' initiative, which lays down the procedures for its implementation, its rules and basic procedures and which above all will finally enable use of this new instrument.
From now on, one million European citizens, that is to say just 0.2% of the EU population, can ask the Commission to put forward proposals in certain areas: an important step towards participatory democracy, which should enable and encourage cross-border debates in Europe as the initiative must be brought by citizens residing in various Member States; a significant step forward in bringing together the citizens of Europe, in the hope that this new instrument will actually be used by European citizens, that it will be effective and that the European Commission will be able to follow the proposals put forward by citizens.
The European citizens' initiative is one of the most interesting innovations set out in the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is a European petition that will enable one million European citizens, from a representative number of EU Member States, to impose a matter on the Commission's agenda.
In other words, it marks the emergence of a genuine legislative power for European citizens, as the Commission will be obliged to respond to this citizens' initiative by commissioning a study or proposing a directive.
In a context where citizens' feeling of belonging to the Union is still too weak and where rates of abstention at the European elections, especially, are particularly worrying, this new tool will enable European citizens to become fully-fledged actors in European democracy.
The European citizens' legislative initiative constitutes a fundamental step in the process of building a Europe based on citizens' rights.
Strict admissibility criteria, accessible and simplified procedures and representativeness of Member States constitute the key pillars of an instrument that restores the primacy of the value of participatory democracy.
In accordance with the values of the Union, the Treaty of Lisbon grants at least 1 million citizens, representing at least one quarter of Member States, an authentic opportunity for effective citizens' involvement in forming rules in line with expectations of the European people.
In this way, the Union based on the euro will be coordinated with the Europe that hinges on the European people's right to citizenship.
in writing. - (LT) I approved of this report because the European citizens' initiative is a new instrument of participatory democracy on a continental scale.
This initiative was introduced in the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and then in the Treaty of Lisbon, with the aim of granting citizens the same political initiative powers that the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament already enjoy.
The citizens' initiative will introduce more democracy and will contribute significantly to making Europe more modern and to bringing it to life for its citizens.
One of the main objectives of the European citizens' initiative is to bring the European institutions closer to the citizens and to make it easier for ordinary Europeans to exercise their rights and privileges.
The authors of the proposal have also endeavoured to achieve the simplest possible model for organising meetings and collecting signatures as part of an initiative.
in writing. - (LV) Today the European Parliament has made a historic decision, which gives civil society the opportunity of becoming much more actively involved in the decision-making process.
Citizens must also become involved from day to day in the decision-making process, expressing their opinion on specific decisions or events on the political agenda.
That is why I am voting in favour of the citizens' initiative with great conviction.
Until now, European legislation has not contained sufficiently developed clear mechanisms for Europeans to become involved in the decision-making process and for drawing the attention of European institutions to citizens' current concerns.
This is a historic moment in which European citizens are being given a concrete measure for bringing important issues and topics to EU level.
The citizens' committees movement was one of the most important factors that led to the renewed independence of Estonia in 1991.
in writing. - (DE) I support Parliament's decision to introduce the option of the citizens' initiative for the citizens of the EU.
The new EU-wide petition system is an important means of allowing citizens to become more involved and will ensure more direct democracy.
Citizens can participate in the democratic life of the Union and approach the Commission directly.
The citizens' initiative gives citizens a right of initiative similar to that of the European Parliament and the Council.
In order to ensure that the citizens' initiative is implemented correctly, at least one million signatures are needed from a minimum of one fifth of all the Member States.
For example, the Commission should consider using the existing programmes which promote mobility and active citizenship, as well as new forms of communication, such as social networking, which encourage public debate.
in writing. - (DE) Despite the improvements to the European citizens' initiative resulting from the compromise between the Commission and Parliament, it still involves unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles.
There is no ban on company donations in support of a European citizens' initiative and they have no upper limit. 6.
in writing. - (RO) The citizens' initiative will establish a direct link between citizens and institutions, thereby plugging the current gap and making EU institutions deal with the major problems facing citizens.
The citizens' initiative will only be successful if the associated regulation is easy for citizens to understand and apply, without imposing excessive obligations on organisers. 2.
However, it is vital to ensure that the process complies with EU legislation in the area of data protection.
Any organisation with the opportunity to support citizens' initiatives must provide total transparency regarding the support being provided so that the signatories are aware who is behind an initiative they choose to support. 3.
The European Parliament information offices in Member States and the Commission's information networks, such as Europe Direct and the Citizen Signpost Service, must be involved in providing all the necessary information regarding the citizens' initiative.
I was pleased to hear the result of today's vote on the citizens' initiative.
in writing. - (PT) With this important initiative of the European Parliament, one million European citizens will be able to ask the European Commission to put forward legislation on a given issue.
The rules implementing the 'citizens' initiative', approved today by the European Parliament, state that signatories need to come from at least seven Member States.
In Portugal's case, at least 16 500 signatories will be required to support an initiative.
The citizens' initiative is a mechanism for public participation laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon to make it possible for citizens and civil society to play a role in the process of drawing up European policies.
The European citizens' initiative will be a powerful tool for shaping the agenda of the European Union.
The initiative was introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon and will allow one million European citizens to call on the European Commission to put forward proposals on subjects within the framework of its powers.
This initiative grants EU citizens the right to make their opinions known and in doing so confers on them a right of initiative similar to that exercised by the European Parliament and the Council.
Citizens' initiatives should also encourage wider cross-border debate, as they will need to be put together by citizens of several different Member States.
The initiatives will only be able to be implemented, however, if they meets certain procedural requirements or requirements on compliance with the European Union's fundamental values, in order to prevent the instrument from being used for non-democratic purposes.
These requirements guarantee the reliability and hence the efficacy of the initiative.
in writing. - I do not share the opinion of my colleagues from the S&amp;D Group, which is why I have abstained from voting.
If they did, they should know that the minimum cost of each signature certified by a notary is 20 euros.
in writing. - (DE) The European citizens' initiative is the first tiny step in the right direction.
I have voted in favour of it because it is the first directly democratic instrument in the EU.
However, overall the citizens' initiative is simply a veneer of direct democracy, which will lead the citizens to believe that they have the right of codecision on some issues in the European Union.
In Austria, these petitions are generally just shoved in a drawer and much the same thing will happen with the EU citizens' initiatives.
However, the European citizens' initiative at least gives non-conformist movements and parties the opportunity to develop their ideas.
It will in future be possible at an EU level, as it is in Austria, to run campaigns and to show the citizens that there are routes to a different and better Europe which lead away from the blind alleys in Brussels.
The provisions referred to are therefore contrary to the Treaty of Lisbon.
Apart from these specific objections, I believe that overall this is an excellent law that does justice to the political and constitutional importance of this new mechanism for participatory democracy within the EU.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the position of the European Parliament on the European citizens' initiative, because I fully support this citizens' right provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is with great satisfaction that I vote in favour of this report relating to the citizens' initiative, one of the greatest innovations of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This new legal instrument may become a way of bolstering the participation of European citizens.
In fact, enabling millions of citizens to suggest to the European Commission that it should legislate on a given issue is a very positive step on the path of bringing Europe closer to its citizens.
For this reason, I agree with the rapporteurs' call for the Commission to present a report on its implementation every three years and, if relevant, to propose a revision of the regulation.
in writing. - (RO) The citizens' initiative, introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, has been devised to give citizens the right to participate in the democratic life of the European Union.
Its aim is to provide citizens with a means of having their voice heard by enabling them to refer a number of issues of interest to the EU institutions.
These may include difficulties that they face in their daily lives which they do not feel receive enough attention and support from trade unions, political institutions or any other regular interlocutors from the institutions.
The citizens' initiative will properly establish a direct link between citizens and institutions, thereby making EU institutions deal with the specific major problems facing citizens.
in writing. - (FR) Participative democracy has made its triumphant entry into Europe with the adoption of this report on the European citizens' initiative, one of the major areas of progress brought in by the Treaty of Lisbon.
It must help to move the debate forward, to reconcile citizens with the European Union and to contribute towards the development of a European civil society.
Sadly, the citizens have acted before the legislators and the petition arrived before the rules of procedure, which will make the citizens' initiative operative in early 2012, had been defined.
Today's vote has given the go-ahead for the first example of European democratic participation.
The European citizens' initiative is one of the most innovative provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon and a first step toward direct democracy.
With the proposal for the citizens' initiative which has been adopted, today, we have put into effect an important element of the Treaty of Lisbon, thanks to which citizens will be able to participate directly in debate about the European Union.
This is particularly important for the European Parliament, which is elected by popular vote.
It is good that after this law has been in force for three years we will be able to revise provisions which have proved to be insufficiently effective, so that it will really be a system which guarantees democratic discussion.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted in favour of the adoption of rules for the European citizens' initiative.
The citizens' initiative gives inhabitants of the European Union the possibility of getting a proposal onto the European political agenda.
The European Union insisted that signatures must be collected from at least nine different EU Member States, but Parliament succeeded in lowering that threshold to seven.
In addition, organisers who manage to collect a sufficient number of signatures will also be allowed to explain their proposal in person to the European Commission and the European Parliament.
in writing. - (DE) Today's vote on the European citizens' initiative has established a new element of direct democracy almost exactly a year after the Treaty of Lisbon came into force.
The European citizens' initiative should be seen as an opportunity to involve people more closely in the EU's decision-making process.
The citizens of the EU now have the possibility for the first time of submitting legislative initiatives to the Commission and, as a result, actively influencing EU policy.
One special feature in Austria is that young people can take part in citizens' initiatives from the age of 16.
The European citizens' initiative (ECI) is an instrument of public participation that aims to respond to the democratic deficit and, as such, to reduce the distance that European citizens feel exists between them and European institutions.
This report, presented by the European Parliament, defines the criteria for implementing this European right of initiative, in order to make it simpler, more accessible, swifter, more transparent and more uniform throughout all Member States.
I believe that all initiatives that aim to reduce distances between citizens and the European project should be emphasised, implemented and carried out in full.
The new provisions introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon boost participatory democracy and mark an important step towards fostering civic spirit.
This is precisely why the citizens' initiative not only offers European citizens the opportunity to participate directly in the decision-making process, but also empowers them to make a contribution to setting the European agenda.
The citizens' initiative will therefore help bring European citizens' major concerns and requests before the European legislative.
At the time, only around 700 000 signatures were collected, but the legislative proposals were submitted to the European Commission.
Consequently, it will be vital, with a view to meeting our commitment to Europe's citizens, for us to ensure that the requests submitted via the citizens' initiative will be turned into legislative acts which will improve the situation of these citizens.
Citizens will be able to let the European Union know what they think of its work.
At the same time, those same citizens have long regarded not only this Parliament, but all European institutions as too distant and insensitive to their problems.
The European citizens' initiative can change this.
The implementation of the citizens' initiative will mean in practice that citizens from various Member States will speak in one voice about the subjects that are important to them.
I believe that the Structural Funds are essential for the economic recovery and competitiveness of European regions, as in a time of crisis, conditionality added to austerity measures may further adversely affect the internal development of the EU.
in writing. - I would like to draw your attention to certain very important issues that are missing from the Commission Work Programme for next year.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which draws attention to the need for proper collaboration between the Commission and Parliament and to the Commission's role as guardian of the treaties and of the EU's general interest.
The resolution also places particular emphasis on the 'Europe 2020' goals of growth for jobs and welcomes the 'European semester' aimed at more effective management of public finances.
The Commission must look further at the internal market, the area of freedom, security and justice and its external policy, which is still in its infancy.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that although the Commission planned to create new jobs and implement the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy as soon as possible, in the field of employment and social affairs there are no specific proposals on the creation of new and high quality jobs in the Commission's programme for the coming year.
Full economic recovery requires a common European strategy for sustainable growth and employment creation, backed by the necessary powers and resources.
in writing. - (PT) Bearing in mind the fact that the current crisis into which Europe has been plunged continues to have an effect on the economies of the Member States, significant adjustments urgently need to be made at both a national level and in the Union itself.
I believe that maximising the potential of the single market, through greater integration of the markets and the strengthening of European company and consumer confidence could have a leverage effect on the European economy.
However, I believe that the Commission could have gone further on this matter, putting forward more ambitious and concrete proposals to address the needs of those operating within the market.
The Commission Work Programme 2011 needs a top-up of European Union spirit and greater courage in facing up to the EU's main political and institutional problems, particularly in the light of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and in accordance with this.
Greater respect for the role of the European Parliament in the formulation of proposals, taking due account of the positions it assumes in its opinions and proposals for initiatives; 2.
Closer and inter-institutionally more balanced cooperation on the budget and on financial prospects; 3.
Greater courage in formulating proposals for the efficient use of EU resources that make it possible to achieve binding objectives and concrete benchmarks; 4.
effective and incisive EU governance of the economy and finance, as well as financial participation of employees in the success of the company that allow more widespread, balanced and inclusive economic and social development.
With regard to the subject of inclusive growth, within which the Commission emphasises the sustainability of social security schemes and the fight against poverty, I am in favour of the need to find an exact balance between austerity and social support, and to determine in which direction reforms to European systems of social security should go.
With regard to the subject of sustainable growth, it is important to understand how the balance between the necessary environmental protection and future reforms of the common agricultural policy (CAP) and common fisheries policy (CFP) will be achieved.
Thus, what the majority in Parliament seek is to continue with the same policy, which is to promote the aforementioned austerity plans within various Member States, regardless of the increase in unemployment, poverty, inequality, asymmetry and economic recession that these austerity plans will cause, while economic and financial groupings continue with ever larger profits.
For all these reasons, we are compelled to vote against.
In 2011, the European Commission will publish proposals on amending thecommon agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - (DE) In 2011 the Commission will submit its proposal for the multiannual financial framework for 2013 to 2020.
The Commission's commitment to sustainable and integrative growth takes into account the environmental and climate objectives for 2020 and requires investment in green technologies, which will in turn create jobs.
I welcome Parliament's call for the new multiannual financial framework for the period after 2013 to take into consideration the expansion of the EU's responsibilities.
The DG MARKT is no longer asking whether EU regulation is needed in the field of CSR, but instead how it should be structured.
Since 2006, the DG ENTERPRISE has been in overall control, as CSR initiatives represent contributions to a sustainable society by companies as part of their business activities.
There is a consensus about this basic concept which has been developed over a number of years in numerous multi-stakeholder forums.
The DG ENTERPRISE has the institutional knowledge used to exercise control over these processes.
in writing. - The financial crisis has severely damaged the economies of all Europe's Member States.
in writing. - (PT) The Commission's new Work Programme for 2011 is based on three points: (1) inclusive growth; (2) sustainable growth and (3) financial regulation.
Finally someone paid attention to the difference between the European Commission and gods.
The European Commission should not ignore MEPs' questions; their duty is to fulfil the decisions of the European Parliament.
If not, what happened to the resolution on the comprehensive monitoring report adopted by the European Parliament on 11 March 2004 which opened the subject of the aliens in Latvia?
I voted in favour of the resolution relating to the European Commission's Work Programme for 2011 because I agree with its main objectives.
It is a fact that the main priority for 2011 should be to push forward with the economic recovery.
Within the Commission's Work Programme, I would point very positively to the strengthening of economic governance and the completion of reform of the financial sector, through measures enabling growth to be restored in order to create jobs.
in writing. - (RO) The Commission Work Programme for 2011 does not reflect adequately the significant events which have had an impact on Europe since 2008, or the hopes and expectations of Europe's citizens either.
The Commission will therefore need to find the way in which its initiatives and proposals will create sufficient decent jobs for ordinary citizens.
The Commission must heed the views of the social partners in the area of pensions and ensure that the future White Paper reflects the stakeholders' expectations, which includes strengthening the first pillar, which is the public pillar.
in writing. - The Greens/EFA have supported the proposed common resolution, as well as many of the amendments suggested.
I endorsed the adoption of the resolution on the Commission Work Programme 2011.
I appeal to the Commission and Member States for decisive steps to be made in this direction in 2011.
The Commission has presented its Work Programme for 2011 at a particularly delicate time for the European Union.
I reiterate the importance of re-establishing job-creating growth by accelerating the EU 2020 programme of reforms.
I believe it essential to ensure structural reform in order to improve European competitiveness and to speed up economic growth, specifically through a policy of cohesion that encourages investment in the real economy.
Any future cohesion policy should also ensure that the new multi-annual financial framework is directed towards achieving the objectives of the EU 2020 Strategy, and European policies within the framework of Lisbon.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution because the EU and the African Union (AU) must jointly address key issues of common concern in order to successfully implement the partnership between Africa and the EU which is based on the mutual interest in exploiting their combined potentials.
I therefore call for all actors to take a stronger political stance in future in order to send a clear message of the EU's firm belief in the rule of law and democracy.
This would safeguard the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and at the same time would open up opportunities to effective cooperation in economic, social, cultural and other fields.
Since the Cairo EU-Africa Summit in 2000, the European Union has launched an extremely wide-reaching external policy on Africa.
In 2005, the EU launched its strategy for Africa.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the future of partnership.
The new action plan is based on eight major new themes: 1- peace and security; 2 - democratic governance and human rights; 3 - trade, regional integration and infrastructure; 4 - the millennium development goals; 5 - energy; 6 - climate change; 7 - migration, mobility and employment; 8 - science, information society and space.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution.
It is necessary to further develop the strategic partnership between Africa and the European Union, in order to meet common challenges together, promote sustainable economic growth and develop cooperation in the fields of energy, trade and climate change.
In developing cooperation it is necessary to give significant support to the fight against poverty, the protection of human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights and to address peace and security challenges on the African continent.
I welcome the Africa-EU Renewable Energy Cooperation Programme and commitments made to provide Africans with access to modern and sustainable energy services, to increase the use of renewable energy in Africa and improve energy efficiency in Africa in all sectors.
The EU and Africa should unite their efforts to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation and take effective measures to combat climate change.
I believe that the regional integration of African countries through the African Union, and trade and investment in this context, will take on a crucial importance for political and economic stability and sustainable growth in Africa.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the Africa-EU Strategic Partnership during the period preceding the 3rd Africa-EU Summit because I believe that the partnership established between the two continents three years ago, during the Portuguese Presidency of the EU, should continue to be strengthened, so that together, we can face common challenges and promote sustainable development, peace and human rights.
I believe that a lasting and healthy EU-Africa partnership is fundamental to development and progress, and I therefore believe that the investment that both parties have made in strengthening their relations is fully justified.
Thus I believe that the future of cooperation will move, in a very definite way, towards establishing commercial relationships and economic partnerships, as well as towards an effective exchange in the areas of research, innovation and education, areas in which EU-Africa cooperation needs to be strengthened.
in writing. - (PT) The 3rd EU-Africa Summit took place in Tripoli between 29 and 30 November 2010.
The challenges for African countries are immense, within the context of a serious crisis in the world economy.
This situation is accelerating the scramble for Africa, a continent that is immensely rich in natural resources.
The ties that keep the countries in this region subjugated to interests that are alien to its people need to be loosened, establishing genuine cooperation and helping them to consolidate their independence and sovereignty with a view to their economic and social development and progress.
in writing. - (PT) It has been three years now since the last Africa-EU Summit, which was the start of a dialogue that has been sought between Europe and the African continent.
This partnership is fundamental for development and progress, and it is important that both parties strive to strengthen their relations.
The Africa-EU strategic partnership is the European Union's only tool covering intercontinental relations.
The theme of the Tripoli Summit: 'Investment, Economic Growth and Job Creation', is a reminder that peace and security, economic and political governance and respect for human rights are pre-requisites for development.
We must support the governments that focus their efforts on making their countries attractive to their own citizens.
in writing. - (DE) It is important for the EU to become closely involved with the African states and to tackle existing and future challenges by means of a common strategy.
It prevents many African states from developing in a way which would improve the welfare of their citizens.
This could be used constructively for the direct benefit of the citizens.
Unfortunately, the resolution takes no account of this and simply envisages the continuation of existing practices.
Poverty is one of the main reasons why people emigrate from Africa and come to Europe.
I am therefore pleased with the adoption of the 2010-2013 Strategic Action Plan and with the partnerships established.
I regret the presence of the President of Zimbabwe, Mr Mugabe, at the summit held in Tripoli on 30 November, and the absence of numerous European Heads of State or Government.
I also note that the new United States 'Conflict Minerals' law is a huge step forward to combat the illegal exploitation of minerals in Africa.
Stresses that the Africa-EU joint strategy's founding principles should be designed to support developing countries' sustainable needs in order to fight poverty, guarantee a decent income and livelihood as well as the fulfilment of basic human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights; 3.
in writing. - (NL) An American law has already placed curbs on the illegal exploitation of 'conflict minerals'.
Today, illegal exploitation is far too often the cause of civil wars and conflicts in the region, while this wealth could actually be an engine for sustainable economic development.
Action in the areas of capacity building, good governance, infrastructure development and investment are crucial.
This is why we need to strengthen the agriculture and fisheries sectors in a sustainable way, especially as regards small farmers and fishermen.
The Africa-EU strategy will be put into practice in line with the action plan adopted for the period 2010-2013, which focuses on eight priority areas already established during the Lisbon Summit in 2007.
First and foremost, I applaud this partnership between the two continents, which has demonstrated added value for both partners and the importance of continuing to boost the regional and global integration of the African continent.
The importance of the protection and promotion of human rights and basic freedoms is at the centre of the democratic values of the European Union itself.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon should be seen as a strengthening of the system at several levels of the protection of human rights, including the Charter.
The new horizontal obligations created by the Treaty of Lisbon are to be welcomed, and efforts between institutions need to be better coordinated for the sake of their effectiveness.
It should also be recalled that a new 'Justice, Fundamental Rights and Citizenship' portfolio has been created within the Commission, and new action is to be expected from the Commission within the context of this new scenario.
This is why, after a long period of gestation, the Charter of Fundamental Rights was adopted in 2000 and came into force last year with the Treaty of Lisbon.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report.
The effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms constitutes the core of democracy and the rule of law in the EU.
I therefore support the obligation strengthened by the Treaty of Lisbon to ensure the protection of fundamental human rights, combat social exclusion and discrimination and to promote social justice and protection.
Even if this is achieved, it is necessary to ensure cooperation between the European Union and national institutions, establishing effective inter-institutional cooperation to monitor the situation of human rights in the EU.
The Commission should continuously monitor the implementation of legislation in the field of human rights protection at national level and, in the case of gaps, should provide proposals for specific measures.
It would be useful for a report on the situation of fundamental rights in the EU to be issued annually to make sure EU citizens are properly informed on the new fundamental rights architecture.
Furthermore, the EU institutions should increase cooperation with international organisations in the area of the protection of human rights.
in writing. - (LT) I am delighted that since the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, we have made some significant achievements in the field of human rights, firstly because the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights became legally binding, and secondly because the European Union is obliged to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
The effective protection of fundamental rights and respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law should be a global objective for all European policies and an essential condition for the consolidation of the European area of Freedom, Security and Justice.
It is important that cooperation and coherence between the various bodies responsible is strengthened, at a European and national level, for the purposes of the control and application of this new general framework established by the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to ensure its effective application.
I also hope that the Commission completes, as quickly as possible, the process of the EU's membership of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), which will provide an additional mechanism for the respect of human rights.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report relating to fundamental rights within the European Union (2009) - Effective implementation following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, because I believe it to be necessary to promote a culture of fundamental rights within the European Union and the Member States.
The protection of fundamental rights should be an objective of all European policies, especially foreign policy, in the interests of promoting peace, human rights and basic freedoms.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon creates a new paradigm in the area of fundamental rights within the Union, and makes the Charter of Fundamental Rights legally binding.
The challenge now is to respond to these questions, and to adopt the strategies and measures required to solve these problems.
in writing. - (PT) The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon created a new situation within the EU in the area of human rights by making the Charter of Fundamental Rights legally binding and by giving the European Union the status of a legal entity, which enables it to sign up to international treaties.
The effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms are the basis of democracy and the rule of law within the European Union, and an essential condition for the consolidation of the European area of Freedom, Security and Justice, which requires action at several levels (international, European, national, regional and local).
Within this context it is worth mentioning the important role that regional and local authorities can fulfil in the concrete application and promotion of these rights.
I am also pleased with the invitation to the Commission to designate 2013 the 'European Year for Citizenship', in order to bolster the debate on European citizenship and inform European citizens about their new rights following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
As usual, the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union has given rise to two perverse trends: the first consisting of demanding more and more rights for all kinds of minorities, to the detriment of those of the majority of our fellow citizens; the second consisting of castigating patriotic political movements and heaping the same old leftist, libellous insults on them, while attempting to dispute the legitimacy of their election victories and curb their freedom of expression.
The recent victories of national parties in France, Hungary, Austria, Sweden, the Netherlands and elsewhere are not a sign of some worrying perversion.
They are a sign that Europe's citizens are tired of your policies, your lax attitude towards immigration, your weakness in defending our nations' economic interests, your complacency towards the financial interests of the powerful and your undermining of our social welfare systems.
However, I greatly regret that we are still unable to enforce respect for fundamental human rights in the Union's Member States.
Yet again, I appeal to the Members of the European Parliament who are assembled in this Chamber, and also to the President of the European Parliament, the Commission and the European Council, to take effective steps to ensure that the Lithuanian Government upholds the principles of democracy and respects the dignity of its citizens.
We are of the opinion that the Gál report certainly contains good elements, but overall it stresses too much the role of the EU in areas which we believe to be the exclusive competence of the Member States, such as immigration and judicial systems.
in writing. - (PT) The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has created more responsibilities for the EU with regard to the creation of a culture of defending fundamental rights within the EU and Member States.
It is essential that the EU promotes protection of fundamental rights not only domestically but also throughout the world, where unfortunately major attacks on these rights continue to take place.
Although I do not agree with part of the report's assessment of the EU's role in the world as a guarantor of human rights and the role of the European External Action Service, as it is vague regarding the compatibility of that role with the need to respect the principle of non-interference in the domestic affairs of other states, I voted in favour of the report because I support its general spirit in terms of the need for the European Union to respect human rights in all aspects of its work.
The protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms are central to democracy and the rule of law in the European Union.
The accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights will contribute a further mechanism for upholding human rights, namely the possibility of taking cases to the European Court of Human Rights.
It is also important that the EU institutions and the Member States renew their efforts on awareness-raising, to ensure that citizens are aware of these fundamental rights, thus ensuring that these rights are better protected.
The European Union needs to devise a strategy on the rights of the child, through practical measures to combat abuse, sexual exploitation and child pornography and to promote safe use of the Internet and eradicate child labour and child poverty.
Combating human trafficking, especially that of women and children, which constitutes an intolerable form of slavery, must remain a priority.
in writing. - (DE) Human rights and fundamental freedoms play a central role in democracy and the rule of law.
Therefore, it is important to ensure that these basic values are safeguarded within the European Union.
in writing. - (DE) The EU's accession to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), as laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon, is problematic.
It puts fundamental rights in the EU under the control of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR).
The heart of democracy and the rule of law is the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
After the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon last year, the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights became legally binding, outlining a new European legal framework in which the universal values expressed in the Charter finally became concrete rights.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Gál because this text approves the effective implementation of fundamental rights in the European Union after Lisbon.
I voted today in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the EU.
I support the position of the European Parliament in its request to the Comission to conclude the negotiations and technical consultations so that the European Union may accede without further delay to the European Convention on Human Rights.
in writing. - With this report the EP stresses, once again, that the effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms constitutes the core of democracy and the rule of law in the EU and an essential condition of the consolidation of the European area of freedom, security and justice and that it requires actions at various levels (international, European, national, regional and local level); stresses, moreover, the role that regional and local authorities can play in the concrete implementation and in the promotion of such rights; therefore calls on all EU institutions, Member States' governments and parliaments to build on the new institutional and legal framework created by the Treaty of Lisbon to devise a comprehensive internal human rights policy for the Union which ensures effective accountability mechanisms, both at national and EU level, to address human rights violations.
I endorsed the Gál report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union (2009).
I would like to draw attention to paragraph 13, which calls for full and consistent implementation of the Stockholm Programme.
All Europeans must be able to benefit from the same rights.
In order to achieve tangible results it is important to step up European cooperation in combating unfair online advertising practices, and the most vulnerable groups of people such as children, adolescents, the elderly and so on need special protection.
It should be pointed out that there is a lack of information about consumers' rights in respect of advertising, and I therefore support the proposal to take steps to facilitate access to information and make advertising more transparent.
These violations are more frequent in Internet advertising and the main victims are the weakest among us.
I voted in favour of this resolution calling on the Commission, at the end of a consultation and study already undertaken by Parliament, to take the necessary measures to reform the current regulations.
Addressing these new fraudulent practices will be one more step towards a single market that respects individuals.
I voted in favour of this report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour.
Misleading and aggressive advertising is worrying consumers and businesses, and there are some good suggestions in the report to address this.
Goods like alcohol and online gambling must be controlled so that vulnerable consumers are protected.
Of concern are behavioural advertising and the emerging practice of aggressive advertising, such as using social networks and reading e-mail to obtain information for use in advertising.
The Commission must address these attacks on consumer privacy.
With the rapid evolution of advertising technologies and the spread of advertising via the internet, mobile telephones and social networks, it is necessary to take effective measures to protect the consumer from the impact of unwanted and misleading advertising.
Cooperation between the Member States in combating unfair online advertising practices should be stepped up, in order to avoid the consequences of internal market distortion and unfair commercial practices.
Furthermore, there is a need to provide consumers with more information about their rights in the area of advertising and to make this information more accessible and transparent.
The Commission should continuously monitor and assess the application of legislation regulating unfair commercial practices in the Member States and prepare reports on the implementation of legislation.
As there is still a lack of information on the socio-psychological effects of advertising on the consumer, it is necessary to take action to research these effects.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report because it deals with unfair commercial practices in the field of advertising, and concentrates on issues arising from the development of new advertising practices and technologies.
I would like to point out that advertising has a major impact on gender equality, particularly when advertising often communicates discriminatory and/or undignified messages based on all forms of gender stereotyping, which hinder gender equality strategies.
I therefore agree that the European Parliament should call on the Commission and the Member States to ensure that the media and advertising professionals guarantee respect for human dignity and make every effort to combat discrimination and any incitement to hatred based on sex, race, ethnic origin, age, religious or other beliefs, sexual orientation, disability and social status.
I would like to stress that children, teenagers and the elderly in particular need special protection against the negative impact of advertising.
Internet advertising is the area which has enjoyed considerable expansion in recent years, generating a current value of more than EUR 14 billion on the European market alone.
It is important for us to step up European cooperation in combating unfair online advertising practices in view of the success of the 'sweeps', that is, systematic, simultaneous website checks carried out by Member States, which have so far been confined to three sectors:airline tickets, mobile phone ring tones and electronic devices.
The European Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, which covers the aspects relating to online advertising as part of the relations between companies and consumers, has become inadequate because the area of online advertising is evolving every day.
I voted in favour of this report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour.
The spread of new systems of communication, such as the Internet, mean that even greater attention must be paid to consumers and in particular to more vulnerable sections of society, such as children and adolescents.
It is our duty to combat the spread of untruthful and misleading information and above all certain practices, such as e-mail spam, which invades the private lives of users and their privacy.
I believe that the measure we have voted on today offers an appropriate balance between freedom of expression and consumer protection.
However, new technologies at the service of advertising are opening up a new area for the development of new, unfair promotional practices, which justifies a change to the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive.
This is particularly important for forms of online advertising via Internet and telephone, which often reach the public in an unsolicited manner, and raise important questions relating, among other things, to unfair practices and the unauthorised use of personal data.
This is why I believe this to be an excellent initiative that merits my support.
in writing. - (PT) This report concerns unfair commercial practices in the area of advertising, defined within the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive (UCPD), and focuses on the problems inherent in the development of new advertising practices and technologies.
The report does not concern relations between companies (B2B), which are specifically covered by Directive 2006/114/EC.
Unfair practices in advertising take many forms: invasion of the public space and sphere, and focusing on people who are particularly vulnerable, such as children.
The evolution of communication media and Internet developments have contributed to the spread of hidden advertising messages and unfair advertising practices that often invade the private lives of consumers.
It is therefore necessary to update the legislation in force on the subject and ensure better implementation and interpretation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour because I am in agreement with the rapporteur that, in the digital era, advertising has taken on a new dimension which necessitates - as the rapporteur has recommended - the implementation of an EU website labelling system modelled on the European Privacy Seal, certifying a site's compliance with the data protection laws.
Sophisticated and aggressive marketing techniques have over the years prevented consumers from making informed choices with regard to goods and services.
This is especially so with regard to citizens who are particularly vulnerable, such as children.
It is a key economic sector: the EU online advertising market alone is worth more than EUR 14 billion.
As a result of these and other problems that have arisen due to the use of new technologies, the rapporteur proposes a series of measures for consumer protection.
While personalised advertising, for example, offers of products or services tailored to consumers' tastes, is not in itself a problem, it must not lead to the development of intrusive advertising based on consumer tracking, which breaches the principles of data protection and privacy.
in writing. - (DE) We want consumers to be responsible, well-informed and in a position to make sensible decisions.
Advertising also makes an important contribution to providing consumers with information.
The purpose of the policy is to ensure a fair and safe trading environment, so that consumers can be involved in the market on an equal footing.
However, it is also important to me that consumers do not become victims.
By making purchasing decisions, they are in a position to exert a great deal of influence, but they must ensure that they make good use of it.
It is essential to take steps to protect European consumers effectively, and also to educate them in the area of the rights to which they are entitled.
Groups which are most at risk from unethical practices, such as children, young people and the elderly, should be given special protection.
in writing. - (DE) New media, in particular social networking sites and blogs, are opening up new opportunities for communication and advertising.
The possibilities of Internet marketing result in additional demands being placed on consumer protection law.
The current directive concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market does not provide for these new advertising methods.
Young consumers and, in particular, teenagers and children are making extensive use of these new technologies and may be exposed to misleading and aggressive advertising.
This makes it all the more important to take urgent measures in this area, including implementing restrictions and, at the same time, providing education and information.
I support the resolution to give consumers more information about the new technical communication options and the risks they involve.
In my opinion, the report should put more emphasis on educating users on their online behaviour, on how to make their computer secure, and on how and to whom they should give their personal data.
A computer is as vulnerable as any other electronic device which is connected to the Internet via an electronic communications network.
in writing. - (FR) From the title of this own-initiative report, I thought Parliament was finally going to examine the society model sold to us by advertisers without having been asked for anything.
in writing. - (PT) Unfair commercial practices in advertising need to be combated.
Advertising can and should be an important tool for companies, serving as a source of income, stimulating competitiveness, providing healthy competition and encouraging creativity.
This is why I agree that this issue should be the focus of special attention, so that we can build a society that is better sustained at an economic and social level.
in writing. - (HU) As far as the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour is concerned, advertising is beneficial for the internal market in the same way as it is beneficial for the consumers.
It also represents an important sector in respect of the economy, as the online advertising market in itself transacts a turnover of EUR 14 billion.
I believe that it is important to strengthen common European cooperation in combating unfair advertising practices.
Through the appropriate means we must ensure that media and advertising professionals respect human dignity and oppose direct or indirect discrimination or stereotypical depictions.
in writing. - (ES) I voted in favour of this report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour as it points clearly to an improvement in the existing legislative framework for protecting consumers from advertising, and the need for a review of that framework taking into account new advertising media that are not yet regulated.
I also gave the report my support as it seeks to improve harmonisation between the Member States in order to prevent legal loopholes that allow businesses to use deceptive advertising practices in the EU Member States.
It is essential to strengthen European cooperation in this field, just as it is valuable to encourage joint regulation.
Lastly, online advertising is often aggressive and intrusive.
in order to restrict access to vulnerable groups like children; 4.
in order to clean the Internet of spam and punish those who make it circulate; 5.
in order to induce very strict rules regarding announcements; 6.
in writing. - (DE) Advertising is a powerful tool for business which in some cases can be used to address the subconscious.
However, the use of unfair business practices must be prevented.
The most important task is to protect public spaces, vulnerable people and privacy.
There is some catching up to do, not only in the field of Internet advertising, but also, for example, in cases where additional costs are covered up and where the use of new technologies and advertising methods, such as social networking sites or blogs, represents new territory.
As it is important to protect consumers from 'hidden' advertising and similar problematic advertising tactics, I have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (LT) Modern advertising has long overtaken the legal framework of this area.
Advertising on the internet - in search engines, email, social networks and Internet television - and on mobile phones is often presented to consumers without their consent, and even worse, using their data, sometimes collected without their knowledge or full awareness.
Furthermore, there are dozens of loopholes in the legal framework of such advertising.
On the other hand, internet advertising can very easily cross a country's borders.
It is also extremely important - and this is said by the rapporteur - to protect groups which are particularly vulnerable to being manipulated by advertising, such as children, teenagers and the elderly.
In view of these comments, I decided to endorse the report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour.
The impact of advertising on the consumer often assumes enormous proportions that can lead to the risk of unfair commercial practices.
My decision to vote in favour of this report is a result of the way advertising is used on the market.
However, above all it is an important economic sector.
We must naturally also take into consideration the negative aspects that advertising can have: unfair practices, intrusion into public and private spaces, influencing of the most vulnerable groups of people, creation of potential entry barriers to the market and distortion of the internal market.
It is therefore important to strengthen European cooperation in the struggle against unfair practices in advertising through a process of coregulation that can improve the efficacy and applicability of measures.
It is also essential, in my opinion, to safeguard the most vulnerable categories and reinforce education and information, increasing the transparency of adverts.
The impact of advertising on consumer behaviour is a reality that should not be swept under the carpet, and this report does not do this.
This report, for which I voted in favour, concerns unfair commercial practices in advertising, defined within the Directive on Unfair Commercial Practices, and focuses on the problems inherent in the development of new advertising practices and technologies.
However, it is important to combat various abuses, among which I would highlight: unfair practices, the invasion of public and private space such as unsolicited emails, undue focus on vulnerable people and the possible distortion of the internal market, that is, thepurchase of goods and services that the consumers normally would not buy.
in writing. - (RO) The report deals with unfair commercial practices in the advertising field, as defined in the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, and concentrates on issues arising from the development of new advertising practices and technologies.
With the 2005 Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, which does not guarantee an appropriate legal framework for combating misleading and aggressive advertising, a set of new and more persuasive forms of advertising is developing through the Internet.
The resolution enables European consumers to be better informed on the new intrusive forms of advertising present on the Internet, calls for greater protection for vulnerable consumers and emphasises the role of advertising in promoting positive role models.
I would like to express my particular concern about the routine use of behavioural advertising and the development of intrusive advertising practices (such as reading the content of e-mails, using social networks and geolocation, and retargeted advertising) which constitute attacks on consumers' privacy.
in writing. - This report deals with unfair commercial practices in the advertising field, as defined in the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive (UCPD), and concentrates on issues arising from the development of new advertising practices and technologies.
Advertising is a tool that benefits both the internal market (oiling the wheels of economic activity by stimulating competition, competitiveness, innovation and creativity) and consumers (by increasing choice and lowering prices).
It is a key economic sector: the EU online advertising market alone is worth more than EUR 14 billion.
Activities which inform and educate users are important, as is giving Internet users more options with respect to the treatment of their personal data.
Equally, I welcome the report's emphasis on the protection of vulnerable groups of consumers and the guarantee of respect for human dignity in advertising.
That is why I supported the report.
in writing. - (DE) Internet advertising adapts itself to users' behaviour.
Given a user profile, advertisers can target their advertising and avoid people outside their target group.
A total of 62% of those surveyed are concerned that data protection is being disregarded in the case of personalised advertising and data protection specialists also have misgivings, because personal data is being stored, compared and linked with other data.
I agree with the general objectives of this action plan, which should ensure an improved flow of information at a local level or the creation of a single point of contact, taking into account the reduced use of European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) resources for measures relating to energy efficiency, with Member States and regions moving to a horizontal approach to energy efficiency for their development, given that this represents a profitable way of stimulating economic competitiveness and reducing fuel shortages.
I also agree that the Commission should consult local and regional representatives in order to define the direction for development in energy policy, as well as to provide financial support to local and regional projects through innovative programmes that use existing energy resources and structural funds.
Within this framework of possible action, it is suggested that major incentives are created for regions, which, up to now, have had an above-average role with regard to energy efficiency, promoting their energy independence and, on the other hand, encouraging the sharing of good practice between these regions and those having had little development in this area.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution because we are committed to respecting the environment, finding economic means of producing energy and combating climate change.
There is a need to ensure sustainable development, but economic development is also important.
I therefore support the rapporteur's opinion that the focus should be on the renovation of existing buildings, since the construction rate of new buildings within the EU is in continuous decline and many old buildings can make a significant contribution to energy efficiency, if renovated properly.
in writing. - (FR) The energy question is a major challenge for Europe.
We need to remember how much our continent's development owes to the relatively easy access to energy that European countries have enjoyed for over a century.
The energy question has now taken on a different aspect.
Needless to say I supported this vital text (including the binding objective of a further 20% energy efficiency between now and 2020), which places the European Union among the front-runners in these fields.
in writing. - (LT) A lot has been achieved since the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan in 2006; however, the political and economic context has changed quite a lot since then.
Therefore, there is a clear need to review the EU's energy efficiency policy to align it with the current priorities and developments.
The advantages are huge in terms of both economic growth and job creation.
I believe that a thorough assessment of the achievements and shortcomings of the 2006 Energy Efficiency Action Plan should be undertaken as a basis for the revision of the EU's energy efficiency policy.
This would facilitate a reduction in the EU's overall energy dependence.
in writing. - (FR) Adopted by a large majority, the own-initiative report of Bendt Bendtsen sends a welcome political signal on the issue of energy, several days after the end of the Cancún Summit and two months before the Summit on Energy on 4 February 2011.
The report only mentions new buildings and not the issue of the management of existing buildings.
Yet buildings are responsible for about 40% of energy consumption and about 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in the EU.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report because there is a need to take specific measures on the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, in particular as it is becoming increasingly obvious that the EU will not meet its target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
The European Parliament thus calls on the European Commission to design the new Energy Efficiency Action Plan taking into account the needs of vulnerable energy consumers.
In addition, it calls on the Member States to adopt appropriate measures and effective policies, such as national action plans or targeted social measures to reduce energy poverty and to report regularly on their actions to address this concern.
The Commission should also be responsible for presenting statistics on the development of all major elements of the EU's energy policy.
I voted in favour of this report, because I believe that good energy efficiency can help us to cut CO2 emissions substantially.
To do this, it would be necessary to arrange appropriate financial instruments to strengthen professional training, research and access to information.
I therefore agree with the need to review the European Union's policies on energy efficiency and implement concrete plans to boost competitiveness.
Therefore, to achieve these goals, it is necessary to promote measures, instruments and funding support from both Member States and at European level, for example through the introduction of ad hoc funds.
I am glad that there were no proposals for the introduction of legislative measures in the area of energy poverty.
Instead it was worded in such a way that it is clear that Member States are the ones who are best able to deal with the problem of energy poverty, and therefore this is a problem that should be resolved at the level of the Member States.
The possibility of using 15% of the ERDF for energy efficiency programmes should also help in improving energy efficiency.
However, I do believe that energy efficiency should be made a horizontal European priority, which is financed from sources other than structural funds.
I am also of the opinion that energy efficiency goals should not be legally binding and that we should not introduce a superficial conditionality for granting structural funds based on energy efficiency.
Important elements are introduced with regard to the modernisation of energy infrastructure, such as smart networks, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, the use of ICT and the development of scientific research in the area of energy.
This report underlines the need to double the funds for scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the area of energy.
In the light of all this, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Bendtsen, for the excellent work carried out, and for the balance achieved, and I would invite all of you to support this important report.
in writing. - (FR) Buildings are responsible for about 40% of energy consumption and about 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union.
Energy-efficient buildings should be a priority of the next revision of the energy efficiency action plan.
Today, 30% of existing homes in Europe are unhealthy and have high energy bills.
That is why the Member States must immediately launch a programme of deep renovations in the existing building stock to achieve a nearly zero level energy consumption in the built environment by 2050.
There is also a link between energy efficiency and energy poverty.
We are therefore calling on the Commission to prepare a new energy efficiency action plan action to take account of the needs of vulnerable consumers.
in writing. - I would like to welcome this report on energy efficiency as it will increase energy security and it will serve to create social and economic advantages for the EU's economy.
The S&amp;D Group have pointed out that energy resources are not evenly distributed among Member States.
Promoting energy efficiency will create employment and it will save Member State governments billions in heating costs on an annual basis.
I am concerned that Member States such as Romania will be expected to perform on a level playing field with other Member States such as Sweden, who have a proven track record in the area of energy efficiency.
Financial Perspective 8 will be a critical financing tool to encourage and promote energy efficiency from 2014 to 2020.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report on the Action Plan for Energy Efficiency because it puts forward important proposals for the environment and for the economy, specifically the presentation of European legislation that introduces binding goals to reduce energy consumption.
In 2008, Europe committed itself to achieving, no later than 2020, a 20% reduction in energy consumption, and to ensure that 20% of its energy consumption was from renewable sources.
For this to happen, rather than imposing a binding limit, it will be more important for Member States to agree on solutions that allow for greater energy efficiency and less energy being wasted, without affecting development and without this being overly costly for European industries and producers, particularly at a time of economic crisis such as now.
In the Commission's Green Paper (2005/0265 final) on energy efficiency, it is estimated that around a million new jobs could be created in Europe, directly or indirectly.
Mandatory energy efficiency measures are also crucial for reducing the energy deficit resulting from imports of oil and gas from the Gulf and Russia.
Within the current framework, we could only attain half of the potential without binding targets for energy efficiency.
It is also a question of legal certainty, and an important signal for directing new investment.
For the EU and Portugal I see more gains than losses with this binding objective.
In addition, if the EU 2020 objectives do not go beyond simple intentions, this strategy will not achieve anything.
Promises to increase energy efficiency have multiplied, but the European Union runs the risk of not meeting the targets that have been proposed: achieving 20% by 2020.
The latest data points to an actual average of only 9%, despite the contribution that an increase in energy efficiency could make to a reduction in emissions, consumption and energy dependence.
But there are aspects with which we disagree, such as the link that is claimed between energy efficiency and what is called the Europe 2020 Strategy, which provides for the creation of a single market in energy, the promotion of market-based instruments, the European Emissions Trading System masking some of the profits from energy efficiency, and overlooking the need to defend a strong energy public sector that each State needs to promote.
Although we agree with the need for there to be community funds for implementing the objectives, we still have doubts about the practical possibility of using up to 15% of the ERDF or using the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) for energy efficiency, given that it should be the Member States that determine their needs and priorities for the distribution of these funds.
Instead, we should focus on specific sectoral targets, such as the commitment to reduce energy consumption in existing buildings by 38%.
The lack of funding is a major obstacle to the renovation of buildings in the residential and SME sectors.
in writing. - (LT) I approved of this report because it aims to increase energy efficiency by at least 20% by 2020, and thereby advance the transition to a sustainable and green economy.
The advantages are huge in terms of both economic growth and job creation.
Both countries are far more progressive than the EU with regard to adopting legislative measures promoting energy-efficient solutions.
in writing. - (FI) When I, like the majority in my group, voted against the mandatory 20% energy savings target, I was not taking a stand on the importance of energy saving, but the way in which it is trying to be promoted.
The energy savings target was not implemented in the way we wanted, but now, rather than burden our Community with yet another binding target, one that overlaps with other binding targets, and without knowing how it will be achieved, we should examine whether those other targets were set appropriately in the first place.
in writing. - (DE) The EU-wide increase in energy efficiency is a central component of a sustainable European energy strategy.
It will allow CO2 emissions to be reduced and, at the same time, energy security to be improved in the most rapid and cost-effective way.
I welcome the fact that the report highlights increased investment in energy efficiency in buildings which will create new jobs in the construction sector and in SMEs and will bring possible annual energy benefits of up to EUR 1 000 per household.
The report also refers to the need to increase energy efficiency throughout the transport system by shifting from energy intensive transport modes, such as cars and trucks, to energy saving means of transport, such as rail.
I welcome the aspects of the report which call on the Commission and the Member States to give energy efficiency the attention it deserves and, at the same time, to ensure that the numerous legislative provisions relating to this area which are already in place at an EU and a national level are complied with.
The fact is that buildings account for around 40% of energy consumption and around 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in the EU.
This is why I think that one of the most important things which needs to be done is to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, and this should be accomplished by initiating work to renovate existing equipment and by installing a more efficient common infrastructure in buildings and heating systems.
I voted in favour of financing the insulation of buildings from the Structural Funds.
The report on energy efficiency is extremely important with a view to adopting the EU action plan in this area for the coming years.
I voted in favour of more effective protection for vulnerable consumers.
However, more financial resources are needed to make the required investments.
These funds could play a key role in developing SMEs and companies supplying energy efficiency services.
I voted against setting the legally binding target of achieving minimum energy savings of 20% by 2020 as this element of compulsion at EU level could have an adverse impact on the single market.
I think that the transition to a sustainable, green economy will progress even without imposing excessive legislative measures.
We must therefore strengthen European Union strategies in this direction.
in writing. - (FR) This report promotes the principle of energy efficiency and advocates energy labelling.
in writing. - (PT) An action plan that complies with the European energy policy needs to address the following issues: moving towards a low carbon-emission energy system, ensuring security of energy supply, and ensuring the Union's improved competitiveness and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices.
Energy - efficient technologies; 2.
Transport technologies; 3.
The energy exploitation of countries - suppliers; 7.
Anti-monopoly programmes for energy consumption and energy supply; 9.
Nanotechnologies in the energy supply sector and its development; 10.
Efficient energy legislation.
In addition, the EU Member States are home to many leading technology companies.
Alongside the obvious benefits for the environment, this sector also offers opportunities for boosting economic growth and creating jobs.
This phenomenon can be observed, for example, in the new Member States, where the scale of the challenges to be faced is enormous.
I voted in favour of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, because I believe it is important to push the European Union to make progress towards a green and sustainable future.
Reducing energy consumption through system innovations in energy infrastructures and urban development is the goal set by Europe in the new action plan that the Commission will submit in February.
I also believe that the objectives must not be binding because if we speed up the timing we run the risk of financially damaging companies and individuals.
The measures for an action plan must be coherent with national plans in order to outline a common methodology for measuring energy efficiency targets.
The rapporteur, a member of the PPE Group, in his review of the energy efficiency action plan, makes a balanced proposal to attain a target of a 20% energy saving, set by the European Council in 2007.
The pragmatic way of implementing an energy efficiency policy proposed by the rapporteur, through individual targets and without imposing legally binding objectives, seemed to me to be the most appropriate method, in the current economic and political context, of achieving the objective in question.
Within the report, for which I voted in favour, I would highlight the various community and Member State actions that support energy efficiency: the application of existing legislation in this area, energy efficient urban development, the construction of energy efficient buildings and the funding of these and other measures through the creation of national energy efficiency funds.
It should be emphasised that this European Parliament report is an important contribution to the review of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan under way within the European Commission.
He notes that, according to the Commission, energy-saving benefits could amount to over EUR 1 000 per household per year.
The advantages are huge in terms of both economic growth and job creation in the areas of IT, construction and services.
These jobs will be in both rural and urban areas, often within SMEs, and they will be local jobs which cannot be outsourced.
The Commission is going to submit a new revised plan at the start of 2011, which must contain the following elements: - EU binding target of a minimum 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020 - measures to combat energy poverty introduced in all energy policies - revision of the Energy Services Directive in 2011 - encouraging investment in smart grids and compliance by Member States with the requirement of the third legislative package on the internal market to install smart meters in 80% of households by 2020 - Member States must set annual building stock renovation targets - the Commission must put forward policies for achieving nearly zero energy losses in buildings by 2050 - the Commission must examine innovative funding models, such as revolving funds, in order to achieve the targets in this sector.
in writing. - (ES) I voted in favour of this report because I believe that it is important for the target of 20% energy efficiency to be compulsory, not only for reasons of CO2 reduction, but also for in social reasons.
in writing. - (FR) Until such time as the crazy challenge of space solar energy becomes a reality and the entire world reaps the benefits of this almost inexhaustible electric manna, the European Union has no other choice for its current energy policy than to get its energy supply from as many sources as possible and to opt for energy efficiency.
This is a key priority of the European strategy for the next decade highlighted in the report by Mr Bendtsen, which was approved this afternoon by a majority of the members of the European Parliament.
I particularly welcome the adoption of the binding energy savings target of 20% by 2020, which would enable the EU to save approximately EUR 100 billion.
There is considerable energy saving potential in public buildings, for example, which would facilitate the transition towards a stable, green economy.
in writing. - This report is a powerful and timely reminder to the Commission and the Council of the importance of a binding energy-saving target ahead of the crucial Energy Summit on 4 February 2011 and as the Commission prepares its energy efficiency action plan.
Ambitious EU measures on energy saving and efficiency are essential if Europe is to respond to the challenges of energy security and climate change.
Until now, Member States have been reneging on their pledge to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020, by making insufficient progress.
The report also calls for stronger measures to address the energy consumption of buildings, notably by renovating the existing building stock.
With buildings accounting for 40% of energy consumption in the EU, it is essential to tackle this sector head on.
The Greens hope that the EU Energy Summit will also address this crucial issue.
The Energy Efficiency Action Plan is a cost-effective means of increasing the competitiveness of the economy and security of energy supply to the European Union.
The plan to begin improving energy efficiency is also a perfect opportunity for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Bendtsen report rightly draws attention to ways of using energy effectively and efficiently without the need to reduce its consumption, because this is continuing to rise in the Member States.
However, for such methods to come into use, an information campaign for the citizens is needed, as also is a reduction in the costs of energy-saving technologies.
Adoption of binding targets for 2020 is difficult for many Member States.
A binding renewable energy target of 20% of final energy consumption by 2020 may prove to be too great a challenge, particularly for the 12 new Member States.
in writing. - (NL) I am pleased that the European Parliament has declared itself to be in favour of a mandatory 20% energy savings target in 2020.
Forecasts indicate that, with the current policy, Europe will only achieve an 11% energy saving.
Meanwhile, households waste EUR 1 000 of energy a year and we annually export no less than EUR 350 billion of our European welfare to oil-rich nations.
Better insulation for houses, more efficient energy transport and more efficient appliances ensure a lower energy bill for consumers and businesses.
Energy conservation is the cheapest way for us to reach our climate target and will lead to 560 million tonnes less CO2 emissions.
It is therefore important that this target be imposed as binding on all EU Member States.
in writing. - ECR MEPs believe that energy efficiency has a crucial part to play in helping the EU meet its renewable energy and emissions reduction targets.
It also has a crucial role to play in ensuring our energy security and contributing to our economic competitiveness.
ECR MEPs do not, however, support binding energy efficiency targets.
ECR members therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted against the Bendtsen report, because the figures have once again been changed and the targets are restrictive.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted against this report.
I welcome the approach taken by the report concerning the Energy Efficiency Action Plan.
For example, the EU Commission, whose buildings were covered by the new efficiency criteria, recently had to admit that it could not meet the additional requirements for the energy refurbishment of its building stock.
For the many medium-sized companies and, in particular, small contractors in Saxony these measures go significantly too far.
in writing. - (DE) I oppose this report.
Although it contains some proposals which are worthy of consideration, I have a low opinion of the type of gesture politics which calls for restrictive measures that are almost impossible to implement in practice.
The demands on local and regional authorities and on private home-owners to carry out energy refurbishments of their properties are particularly pointless, given the financial situation of all the parties involved.
As a result of investment in the production and maintenance of the infrastructure and in renewable energy generation facilities, the cost of energy is rising faster than can be compensated for by the possible savings from energy efficiency measures.
The existing EU energy efficiency directive from 2002 has been implemented in very different ways in the individual Member States which means that there is no common approach in Europe on this issue.
Insisting on a much greater mobilisation of structural funds to pay for energy efficiency measures is inappropriate in the light of the ongoing finance debates.
I am very much in favour of a debate on energy efficiency based on a broad consensus at all political levels and involving all the relevant players and the creation of incentive systems.
