Crisis in the EU livestock sector (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Esther Herranz García, Albert Deß, Mairead McGuinness, Giovanni La Via, Michel Dantin, Véronique Mathieu, Gabriel Mato Adrover, Herbert Dorfmann, Georgios Papastamkos, Mariya Nedelcheva, Filip Kaczmarek, Jarosław Kalinowski, Béla Glattfelder, Czesław Adam Siekierski, Rareş-Lucian Niculescu, Sergio Paolo Francesco Silvestris, Elisabeth Köstinger, Milan Zver, Peter Jahr and Maria do Céu Patrão Neves, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), James Nicholson, on behalf of the European Conservatives and Reformists, and Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos, Paolo De Castro, Stéphane Le Foll and Iratxe García Pérez, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, on the crisis in the EU livestock sector (O-0141/2010/rév. 1) - B7-0559/2010).
The sector is particularly vulnerable to the crises affecting EU agriculture as a whole, due to multiple factors: the high costs of inputs, the fall in market prices, imbalances of power in the food chain and the current increase in cereal prices.
If this does not happen, livestock producers across the European Union will have to cope with rising prices, volatility and uncertainty for a long time to come.
Farmers in this sector are feeling the crisis quite acutely, as their costs are rising and the price of pigmeat is falling.
author. - (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, the profitability of livestock production is directly linked to feed costs.
Madam President, my answer will be in two parts, because the problem in the livestock sector relates primarily to the food situation and, hence, to the situation in the cereals market, and then I will also refer to the mechanisms at our disposal for the livestock sector.
Thus, we have seen the price of barley and oats rise to as much as EUR 200 per tonne.
In the European Union, average cereal production is estimated at 276 million tonnes, and if we add to that the stock from the start of the harvest, we have almost 60 million tonnes more than we are expected to use.
A 2.8 million tonne batch has just been set aside for the implementation of the 2011 programme to help the poorest citizens, and the rest will be sold on the internal market shortly.
With regard to the situation in the cereals market, then, no emergency measure can be justified because, as I explained to you, the problem is not one of supplying the European market with cereals, since the high price of cereals on the European market is not due to a lack of market supply.
The Commission is paying very close attention to market developments in the livestock sector, and more particularly in the pigmeat and poultry production sectors.
The margins in this sector are, in fact, highly dependent on the costs of foodstuffs.
The relationship between the dollar and the euro means that export problems and a lack of competitiveness are possible, but this problem is not exclusive to the agricultural sector.
Madam President, Mr Cioloş, ladies and gentlemen, today's motion for a resolution will help to set the European livestock sector on the right course.
Its aim is to put in place fair market conditions for the European livestock industry, which will help to ensure food security for more than 500 million people in future.
Therefore, I am grateful to all the 534 Members of this House who voted in Strasbourg in favour of requiring agricultural imports to comply with European consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection standards in future.
We hope that the proposal that the Commission will shortly present on market instruments for the milk and dairy sector will also include proposals to limit the impact of price volatility on the agricultural sector as a whole.
In particular, the high cereal prices exacerbate the problems for profitability amongst winter beef finishers, who have a higher dependency on cereal-based feed imports.
Secondly, it is essential that the Commission steps up measures to support the livestock sector in less-favoured areas, in particular.
Lastly, European producers comply with the most stringent regulations in the world in terms of food safety and quality, the environment, and animal health and welfare.
It is crucial for the long term viability of the livestock sector overall that the Commission ensure that their actions on trade and agriculture do not compromise European farmers, but support the sustainability and viability of the European livestock sector into the future.
Madam President, Commissioner, just as in 2007, world cereal prices are soaring, and farmers are seeing a sharp rise in their production costs as they did two years ago.
Consumers pay EUR 17 per kilo of rib steak in the supermarkets, while producers receive EUR 3 per kilo - is that right?
On 7 September, Parliament gave its verdict by voting for the report on fair revenues for farmers.
Madam President, I very much welcome the fact that we are dealing with the situation in the livestock sector, because it is a serious one.
I would like to draw attention to the problem which is the subject of paragraph 15 of the motion, namely, the problem of animal welfare.
We should introduce these standards here, but we should also resolutely demand high standards - the same as we have in the Union - from all those who export their meat and livestock products to the European market.
The decision must be taken to stop this wholesale liberalisation of agricultural markets, which results in farmers earning, as someone mentioned just now, between EUR 700 and EUR 800 per month - EUR 700 and EUR 800 per month! - while the retail price of meat has risen by 40%.
Make the decision to stop these excessive imports and stop the negotiations on that dreadful agreement to import 400 000 tonnes of beef from the Mercosur countries, as it would destroy entire regions.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, cereal price volatility is having severe repercussions on all livestock sectors but also on consumers.
Cereal producers who are awaiting a price increase wait before selling their produce and put it in store, with the result that these agricultural products deteriorate.
Speculation and severe climate change have led to a great increase in the prices of cereals used as animal feed and a knock-on increase in meat prices.
Countries like China and the United States are all increasingly aware of the importance of food supply security and, as a result, are continuing to increase the support which they provide to agriculture.
In Northern Ireland, the beef price is well below the cost of production.
Unfortunately, this period is coinciding with a general economic crisis and the decline in the population's purchasing power is also affecting livestock production.
At a time when farmers will find it difficult to provide feed for their animals during winter, a huge number of them will choose to slaughter their animals, which will help prolong the crisis for more years in the future.
We need a strong common agricultural policy which is well financed and well managed, and which can accommodate both structural development and modernisation measures, as well as market and direct support measures. (PT) We are all aware of the enormous difficulties that the European livestock sector is undergoing, the pig-farming sector in particular.
I therefore call on the Commission to take into account the recommendations made in the resolution signed by several political groups, including my own, because action is needed, in fact, and needed very quickly, Commissioner. (DE) Madam President, Mr Cioloş, there is no question that the crisis must be resolved.
Making the import of GM soya easier will not help to resolve the crisis in the livestock sector.
My final point is that I am very surprised that EUR 450 million from the agriculture budget is being transferred to the ITER nuclear fusion project.
The fluctuation of prices has an adverse effect on an already vulnerable livestock industry.
We have producers in this area running the two systems side-by-side before the deadline to try to recoup some of the GBP 400 million pounds we have spent complying with your rules which, of course, is putting more eggs on the market.
The British livestock farmer will be the sacrificial lamb in this deal and we are not happy about it. (HU) There are many reasons for the crisis in the livestock sector.
The European Commission has done nothing to prevent this.
We must wake up to the fact that global grain trade is concentrated in the hands of fewer and fewer companies.
The fluctuation of grain prices causes losses not only to grain producers but also to livestock breeders and consumers.
Remember that the European Union sold the 2004/2005 intervention stocks at an enormous profit.
If the European Union had intervened then, a huge profit could now be realised from the sale of grains, which would also help livestock breeders.
Thirdly, the fact that the common agricultural policy system is distorted, it over-subsidises grain farmers, and supports neither pig nor poultry farmers or livestock farmers in general, is another factor contributing to the current livestock crisis.
The dairy sector plays a special role in this respect, because it creates jobs and generates income in mountain regions and in other areas.
This is why I believe that we must focus specifically on three issues in the reform of agricultural policy.
We need a common agricultural policy (CAP) which takes into account livestock farming in mountain regions and provides subsidies to livestock farmers there.
Thirdly, we need a quality policy which focuses, in particular, on products from mountain regions and which provides options for special labelling, so that added value can be obtained on the market for these products from the livestock sector in mountain areas. (PT) We are probably on the way to another commodities bubble.
A year ago, in this Chamber, we were all bemoaning the general production situation.
The costs of inputs and overbearing regulations are making EU farms uncompetitive and the viability of our farm sector is deteriorating.
I look forward to your response. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, the situation this year is teaching us that an appropriate level of cereal reserves is essential to ensure food security and market stability.
For this reason, I support the motion which calls on the European Commission to establish a minimum threshold for the level of unauthorised varieties of GMOs permissible in imports of soya.
Continuation of the policy of zero tolerance constitutes a threat to the entire food production chain. (EL) Madam President, there are currently two threats to global livestock farming and food.
On the one hand, we have the seed monopolies, and we have seen the disastrous consequences of modified seed in this sector in India.
We need to increase local resources, ensure that farmers have free access to seed and that livestock farmers also pay lower prices, and regulate the operation of financial organisations. (ES) Madam President, livestock farms are suffering the consequences of the crisis.
Moreover, they have to comply with the strictest standards in the world, increasing their production prices, with the disadvantage that this gives them in comparison with third countries.
Finally, I ask the Commission to defend the interests of European producers in all trade negotiations, in order not to endanger the production of the livestock sector.
British beef is now being sold well below the cost of production; lowland suckler-cow producers reckon they are losing around GBP 260 per cow; our dairy farmers have suffered a long spiral of decline.
We have to stop the rot. (PT) The increase in cereal prices is another factor that is adding to and exacerbating the crisis in the livestock sector.
It is true that we no longer have the intervention stocks we had in the past, but this is because prices are higher now.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (LV) These days, Europe's livestock farmers are experiencing difficulties that we must all overcome together in order to enable the livestock sector to develop and generate enough revenue for farmers.
Of course, we have no influence over these climatic disasters, but it is within our power to draw up legislative proposals that could help Europe's farmers to overcome the consequences of these cataclysms.
I should additionally like to remind you that it is essential for the Commission to defend the interests of European farmers in its discussions with the Mercosur nations on a new trade agreement and to ensure the conditions for fair competition.
I call upon the Commission to begin working actively to help European farmers to overcome the existing difficulties in the livestock sector, as our support is vital for farmers.
The livestock sector presents a number of problems for European farmers, including the rising cost of inputs, competition from third country imports, major fluctuations in feed costs and relatively low prices for meat.
All of this must be combined with the highest possible levels of safety for consumers in the form of comprehensive animal health services and clear labelling of all food products from animals, in particular, with regard to their origin and the way in which the animals are reared.
The EU must put in place the basic conditions needed to safeguard the future of our farmers so that they can stay competitive internationally and their businesses can remain economically viable, despite the fact that we have the strictest animal welfare standards in the world.
The situation is critical in the area of pork production, where feed accounts for 60% of production costs, but rising costs may gradually threaten all branches of livestock production in the EU.
In the EU, it takes almost two and a half years to approve such feeds, in Argentina around three years, in Brazil three to five years, and China is also adopting strict measures in this area.
The crisis in the EU livestock sector must not be exploited for the commercial ends of US companies, which see significant export potential in the European market.
The European Union should aim to reduce production costs, to ensure that third countries comply with EU standards, and to ensure that producers get a decent price for their products.
However, we hope that we will see a different attitude adopted by the European Commission in future because it is not normal for European farmers to always lose out as a result of commercial agreements.
The Commission also needs to be more involved in strengthening producer organisations in all livestock sectors, in order to enable them to negotiate better prices for their products, while taking into account production costs.
