On International Women's Day, there is one thing we Europeans must all acknowledge: in our continent, we still have not achieved equal rights, but the dramatic injustice towards women in other parts of the world, ranging from genital mutilation to the compulsory wearing of the veil, all these basic fundamental rights that women and, above all, girls worldwide are deprived of, should not only concern us on 8 March.
International Women's Day, 8 March.
On 8 March, I sometimes become disheartened thinking of everything that must still be done for men and women to enjoy genuine equality of opportunity.
Today, 8 March, is not only International Women's Day but also my son's birthday; he is two years old today.
In the coming years, his mum will be doing her very best to achieve this, and fortunately I am not the only one. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, International Women's Day gives us a united opportunity to focus on issues and challenges women face today - to focus on the various forms of inequality that many women experience, but also to celebrate achievements by women throughout the century.
We in the United Kingdom are especially proud to celebrate figures that have helped our nation progress in the field of women's rights: women such as Emily Pankhurst, leader of the British Suffragettes, which won women the right to vote, Shirin Ebadi, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 for her efforts in promoting human rights, especially for women, and Margaret Thatcher, the first British woman Prime Minister, elected in 1979.
We are working to defend women's rights not just on 8 March, but on every day of the year.
Welcome, Mr Dalli.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very pleased that my first attendance at the plenary session of the European Parliament takes place on this important day - 8 March, International Women's Day.
The Women's Charter will be followed, in September 2010, by a new comprehensive strategy for equality between women and men.
