Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B7-0001/2011).
Part one Subject: Utilisation of European funds According to a recent article in the Financial Times, the European Union has only spent 10% of the EUR 347 billion allocated for the period up to 2013 to promote the development of poor regions.
However, the most recent data show that the Commission made more cohesion policy payments in the fourth quarter of 2010 than ever before.
Absorption rates, in terms of EU payments to Member States, are now at 21% for the Cohesion Fund, 22% for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and 23% for the European Social Fund (ESF).
The ESF supports people.
My question is therefore whether you believe that in future, we can strengthen the research framework conditions and the research infrastructure somewhat more. (LT) Mr President, I have the following question.
In the period 2000-2006, more than 30 000 enterprises in total concentrated on this area in a focused manner.
It is possible that even in the current period we will subsidise a research infrastructure project that is also included in the ESFRI - the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures - Road map with such funds for the first time, because investigations into this project have revealed that it has a very sustained impact in a region beyond that of the project itself in that jobs will be created, not just research jobs, but also jobs in enterprises that supply these, since even basic research infrastructure needs services and supplies.
As a result, the overall volume of loans under the Progress Microfinance Facility will amount, as planned, to around EUR 500 million.
When we received the report from the Commission and the European Investment Fund a few weeks ago, it talked about a total sum in the region of only EUR 200 million.
I would like to ask you the following question, because you mentioned that 60% of the European Progress Microfinance Facility will go towards Central and Eastern Europe: have you identified the barriers which have prevented the countries in this region of Europe from making sufficient use of this instrument up until now?
Where interest rates are concerned, there are some Member States that have set a cap - as a condition, so to speak - which is at around 8 to 9.5 per cent.
I cannot tell you all the countries off the top of my head, but essentially, they are mostly the new accession countries, and we expect that in the coming years, a further 20 intermediaries will be prepared accordingly by the Jasmine programme.
I would certainly assume, however, that there are often communication problems here and that there are also often obstacles because many of the potential borrowers are people who can no longer obtain loans from a 'conventional' bank and there is therefore often also a certain amount of anxiety or reticence when it comes to approaching such facilities.
Subject: Additional support measures for SMEs under tourism policy Tourism, like any other sector of the economy, is increasingly feeling the effects of world competition.
Furthermore, on 30 June last year, the Commission adopted a specific communication on tourism, which proposes - in line with the Treaty of Lisbon and the new Europe 2020 strategy - a consolidated political framework to strengthen competitiveness in the sector, with the aim of making European tourism a truly competitive, modern, sustainable and responsible industry.
To achieve this objective, we proposed three specific measures aimed, firstly, at stimulating competitiveness in the European tourism sector; secondly, at promoting the development of sustainable, responsible and high quality tourism; and thirdly, at consolidating the image and profile of Europe as a collection of sustainable and high quality tourist destinations and, of course, maximising the potential of EU financial policies and instruments for developing tourism.
I would mention JEREMIE, the joint initiative of the Commission, the European Investment Fund and the European Investment Bank, which is aimed at improving access to funding for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, through the channels of risk capital, loans, securities, micro-credit and other forms of repayable aid.
Lastly, I would point out that small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector are fully covered by the measures proposed in the framework of the Small Business Act, which is intended to promote the business environment of those very same enterprises.
I therefore feel able to reassure the honourable Member who tabled the question that the Commission and I are committed to ensuring that all small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector are supported and assisted in their efforts to access EU economic instruments, as part of a political strategy aimed at making tourism one of our key economic and industrial policy sectors. (LT) Mr President, probably all of us here today in Parliament hope that the forecast you gave on the development of tourism in the future will indeed become a reality, and this area will not only be developed, but will be favourable for investment.
First and foremost, we must give Vice-President Tajani credit for having given a very strong boost to the new European tourism policy laid down by the Treaty of Lisbon, with the communication adopted last June and the associated implementation plan presented a few weeks ago.
I would like to ask you whether you intend to create a European framework to increase SMEs' participation in accessing European funds for developing tourism.
It is an extremely important resource for the whole of the European Union, including the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which have their own sights and their own potential to be developed.
On the subject of the Baltic States, I believe that one of the issues - which, incidentally, is addressed in the text that was approved on 30 June last year - is the relationship with the new emerging classes, with the new middle class in Russia.
Part two Subject: Programmes and initiatives to modernise higher education Studies have been carried out in some Member States in order to determine how higher education institutions have adapted to the new labour market requirements and what prospects graduates have of finding work once they have completed their degree course.
The Commission's work programme for 2011 refers to the modernisation of higher education and states that proposals might be put forward on the systems to be applied in order to assess, and bring transparency to, the activities of higher education institutions.
Finally, EU programmes to support education, training and youth, including mobility programmes such as Erasmus, can help young people to improve their chances in the labour market by gaining valuable international experience and by developing their intellectual understanding. (LT) Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your really comprehensive response.
However, in the Member States, there are many differences between higher education systems, the costs of higher education and the provision of loans to pay for studies.
However, the Member States are financed by the European Union with funds to modernise syllabuses in the Member States.
Member of the Commission. - As you are aware, it is for each Member State to decide how to organise its educational system.
The OECD's PISA survey is an important resource for these exchanges.
The share of low achieving pupils in maths and science has been declining since 2006.
On average, over the three disciplines in the 25 EU countries for which data is available, 22.5% were low achievers in 2006 and, by 2009, their share had declined to 19.6%.
In November 2010, the Council invited the Commission and Member States to focus their joint work on the following areas: curriculum design, motivation for reading, literacy, maths, science and technology, the impact of new technologies on basic skills and their use in helping learners to acquire autonomy and maintain motivation, gender differences in performance and attitudes, the link between pupils' background and their mastery of basic skills and, finally, issues around teachers and teacher trainers as well as around schools' ethos and characteristics.
The thematic working group will identify and disseminate policy measures to improve the situation of low achievers in basic skills at national level.
I am very pleased to say that some countries that have followed good practices have shown very good progress since 2006 in most of these indicators.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The Commission's communication on Europe 2020 and its communication on the digital agenda for Europe set the objective of bringing basic broadband to all Europeans by 2013 and seek to ensure that by 2020, all Europeans have access to much higher Internet speeds of above 30 megabytes per second and that 50% or more of European households have subscribed to Internet connection above 100 megabytes per second.
First, on the Brenner Base Tunnel itself, the meeting of the Austrian-Italian Intergovernmental Commission on 19 November 2010, in the presence of EU coordinator Pat Cox, led to decisive progress.
Subject: Texting while driving - road safety A driver is 23 times more likely to be in an accident if texting.
We hope that Member States will deal with this issue adequately. (GA) Mr President, I am disappointed with the reply I received from Commissioner Kallas.
