I wish to reassure you that this House has access to a lot of information, either because this information is in the public domain or because Parliament, as part of the budgetary authority, holds hearings with the directors of agencies, on the annual work programmes and on budgetary discharge, in the Employment and Social Affairs Committee.
There is also a significant overlap between the European Training Foundation (ETF) and the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop).
If I remember correctly, both organisations were founded in 1975.
Applying this logic in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I am questioning the efficiency of the four agencies which we have been discussing: Eurofund, ETF, OSHA and the improbably named Cedefop.
There is indeed, as earlier speakers have said, considerable overlap between their programmes, and I believe that their management and administration, at least, could usefully be merged.
We ask: is this duplication worthwhile? (DE) Mr President, the EU has four agencies in the field of employment, working conditions and vocational training; namely, the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Eurofound), the European Training Foundation (ETF), the European Agency for Safety and Health (OSHA) and the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop), with an annual budget of around EUR 15 million to EUR 20 million.
To take the example of Eurofound, the Court of Auditors notes in its 2009 report that the Foundation has not established in its budget a specific heading for the different programmes financed by assigned revenue.
I would like to look briefly at the European Training Foundation (ETF).
The ETF plays a very important role in helping the acceding countries to enter the EU labour market.
We cannot therefore underestimate the role played by Cedefop.
The report for 2010 confirmed my beliefs regarding Cedefop's effectiveness.
I also believe that the agency has superb potential to draft an attractive proposal in this respect. (PT) Mr President, I am not seeking to call into question the work and efforts of the workers, experts and specialists of the four existing European agencies responsible for employment, working conditions and training.
I would like to mention once again that the funding for the four agencies we are talking about amounts to EUR 90 million.
I am not sure whether the services that the agencies provide are really worth EUR 90 million.
We should not only be discussing whether a merger should take place.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I believe that we need to discuss all issues like this without any taboos.
I regret that some of the colleagues who spoke have actually left, but I would like to answer them very specifically.
I addressed the question of the functional overlap between two agencies - the ETF and Cedefop - in my introductory speech, but I would like to stress again that the contribution of these agencies can be crucial, especially in the context of increasing employment in line with the 2020 objectives.
The ETF, particularly in the light of the recent changes in the Mediterranean area, can play a very strong role in bringing prosperity to the regions neighbouring the European Union.
