Specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the Union (amendment of Regulation (EC) No 247/2006) (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Alves, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 247/2006 laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the Union - C7-0255/2009 -.
Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Cioloş and the Commission's high officials, with whom we worked and negotiated, for the openness and flexibility they showed.
The proposal for a Council regulation was tabled on 2 October in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, at a time in which there was no prospect of the Treaty of Lisbon entering into force, which continued to await ratification by the Member States.
In this context, the initial idea of the Commission and the Council was for the proposal to be adopted under the simplified process without any amendments, to become effective from 1 January 2010.
Finally, I would like to say in this first speech that we failed to get the amendments proposed by the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and supported by me, accepted in the commitment obtained in trialogue.
The adoption of this regulation is very important for the outermost regions as it imposes technical simplifications and it also imposes derogations to the benefit of several sectors: the milk sector in the Canary Islands, Madeira and Réunion, the sugar sector for the Azores and the wine sector for Madeira and the Azores.
The diversification must allow an indigenous development that would create stability and well-being in these regions.
In my function as rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development, I welcome the fact that all the amendments proposed were fully accepted by the rapporteur and that the Committee on Regional Development voted in favour of all of them.
Of these aspects, I would stress the fact that the maximum amounts for export and despatch of any processed products that have benefited from POSEI grants are currently calculated on the basis of the average between 1989 and 1991.
In the case of regions like the Azores, that are highly dependent on agriculture, particular attention to that sector is needed.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, first of all, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur for a very good job of work.
The economic crisis and the crisis in the dairy sector have affected these regions disproportionately in relation to most of the rest of Europe, and that is why these regions deserve some special attention.
We are talking about skimmed milk powder with vegetable fat, which is a traditional product for local consumers that has been sold in the Canary Islands for more than 40 years.
I believe that can only be done if agriculture is, to a certain extent, re-nationalised. (PT) Mr President, in this debate on the specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions, I would like to start by complimenting the rapporteur and everyone who has worked on this subject.
However, to call attention to the issue of sugar and sugar production in the Azores is to also call attention to a deeper problem.
Firstly, agriculture is primarily an industry that puts food on the table - without which we all would die - but also these regions without agriculture would die as well, both economically and by probably becoming denuded of people.
I can assure you that every effort will be made in the reform of the CAP in 2013 to take better account of current realities.
I do not think that renationalisation is a solution because, in my opinion, the Member States would not have the means to assure the adoption of specific measures in these outermost regions if we did not have the common agricultural policy and a Community approach.
The change that has occurred since it was adopted in 2006 - both in the field of legislation and in that of its application, as well as to the situation itself - has necessitated the introduction of amendments so that an updated version of it can continue to be an important instrument in the adaptation of certain Union agricultural policies relating to the specificities of the outermost regions, as set out in Articles 349 and 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
In Madeira, this same exception is being renewed using these models, and wine produced from direct-producer hybrid vines can be consumed in the region.
The vote will take place today at 12.00.
