Of course, the EU is one of the main contributors to the IFI's inception in 1986, when it was established by the London and Dublin governments to promote economic and social development in the 12 counties on both sides of the border. (GA) More than EUR 800 million in contributions have been paid into the fund, and when the multiplier effect is taken into account, this equates to an investment in excess of EUR 2 billion.
Thank you for your indulgence. (ES) Mr President, I voted for this initiative because its main goal is to continue supporting the peace and reconciliation process in Northern Ireland and Ireland's border areas, in order to build bridges of reconciliation and communication between the most divided communities and to continue, as Europeans, defending values and human rights.
The Irish Finance Minister, Brian Lenihan, made all the right decisions.
Every orthodox economist would suggest that what we need to do at a time like this is to allow some of the eurozone economies to print their own currencies again, to devalue, to buy themselves time to price themselves back into the market.
A lot of people may claim peace in Northern Ireland but it was really David Trimble and John Hume who bore the brunt of the heavy lifting to bring the peace to Northern Ireland, and I hope the rapporteur will get his facts right in the future.
It is by no means sure that the peace will last as there are those on both sides - and we have seen them coming forward recently - who are still trying to de-establish what has been achieved. (PL) Mr President, I was among the 334 Members of the European Parliament who endorsed Pastor Tőkés for the position of Vice-President of the European Parliament.
However, it grieves me that today, he has been the victim, first of a computer error which wrongly counted 168 votes, and that then those 168 votes were added by the person chairing the proceedings to the overall total, which has been the cause of general controversy.
If you look at what has been debated in Council, it is Article 122 of the Lisbon Treaty, which was supposed to be an article of solidarity: 'In the spirit of solidarity if a Member State falls into difficulties in the supply of certain products such as in the area of energy or where a Member State is in difficulty or threatened with severe difficulties due to natural disasters'.
Moreover, it reminds me of the previous amendments to the Rules of Procedure that Mr Corbett was behind, though he has now faded into obscurity and was fortunately defeated in the European Parliament elections by my friend, Nick Griffin. (NL) Mr President, Amendment 86 in the Martin report stipulates that the representative of the non-attached Members at the Conference of Presidents be decided not by the non-attached Members themselves but by the President of Parliament.
We read this week that the European Commission is preparing to bail out Spain, and the President of the European Council, Mr Van Rompuy, frankly admits that in this event, the EUR 750 billion already set aside in the emergency bail-out fund would be wholly inadequate.
Almost 10 years on, we believe that Europe, as the main international player in the field of development assistance, must now, more than ever, assume a leading role.
Mr President, I voted in favour of this report because I believe that at this moment in time, we need to explore innovative financing mechanisms.
The EU Member States must start to take strategic partnerships of a political nature with these countries seriously.
This means that all the partners must demonstrate a renewed political will to achieve the priority objectives, which are still: policy coherence for development, tackling climate change and the global crisis, governance and rights, the right to food, and development education.
This remains our number one challenge, Mr President. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Cashman report because I believe it is the responsibility of this House and of the European institutions to abide by and uphold the commitments made to people who live in less developed countries, in particular, the countries of Africa.
We cannot get to 2015 and realise that the eight goals that we set ourselves have not been achieved, because behind the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, behind these percentages - let us not forget this - there are billions of people who are suffering and do not have the opportunity to live in dignity.
The European Union must set an example and lead the way as far as development assistance is concerned.
Written explanations of vote Pal Schmitt, Vice-President of the European Parliament, having been recently elected as president of the newly elected Hungarian parliament, my colleagues and I had to elect a new vice-president.
As László Tőkés, Hungarian member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), meets all the criteria needed in order to perform such a function (integrity, commitment, support for the European construct), I voted in favour of his candidature.
The appointment of László Tőkés as Vice-President of the European Parliament is an insult to Romania, given the chauvinist tone of this fellow Member's statements.
Whether László Tőkés is going to do a good job in this post he now occupies matters less at this juncture.
in writing. - Today's vote on the election of Mr Tőkés as Vice-President of the EP has been a disgrace.
Seventh, even so, nobody could explain how 168 votes could represent a 'qualified majority' in a Parliament numbering 751 members!
For reasons of political solidarity with my friends in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I voted in favour of the report by my Italian colleague, Barbara Matera (PPE, IT), on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the sum of approximately EUR 6.6 million in aid to Spain, which is facing redundancies in the non-metallic mineral products sector.
I also find that administrative costs of over EUR 400 000 are disproportionate, even if a EUR 60 000 study, the cost of which seems prohibitive, appears to be the root cause of the large amount.
I am therefore voting in favour of this resolution.
On 2 September 2009, Spain submitted an application to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in respect of employees made redundant from 181 companies involved in the manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products in a single NUTS II region, Comunidad Valenciana.
I believe that this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions as laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006.
Therefore, I agreed with this report and the Commission's proposal to mobilise an amount of EUR 6 598 735, because only measures that help redundant people to integrate into the labour market are financed with money from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) and money from the fund creates the conditions for redundant workers to find permanent or temporary jobs, to participate in vocational training programmes and acquire the knowledge necessary to match the needs of the labour market, to acquire a business licence or become self-employed.
Lithuania, too, has already taken advantage of support from this fund.
I voted in favour of the reports on mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) because I believe that it is crucial to underline the importance of the fund.
This instrument was created to provide labour market support measures aimed exclusively at helping workers made redundant on account of structural changes in the main international trade patterns and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market.
This is an extremely useful instrument which, between 2007 and the present day, has seen 55 requests by 17 Member States for support for 52 334 redundant workers, for whom funds totalling EUR 271.9 million have been earmarked.
An analysis of the data in our possession shows, therefore, that the sum of EUR 5 195 has been mobilised from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for each worker made redundant, a sum that is actually being used to implement personalised service packages that are specifically designed to reintegrate the workers concerned into the labour market.
Given the situation that the impact of the neoliberal policies inflicted by the European Union has forced them into, one might feel justified in voting against the pittance that the European elite have seen fit to offer them.
However, at least the little that they do receive may help to relieve their suffering.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocation due to globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in various countries, particularly China and India, often to the detriment of countries that respect workers' rights.
The aim of the EGF is to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, and it is fundamental in facilitating their future access to new employment.
In the past, the EGF has been used by other EU countries, and now it is able to extend the same help to Valencia, Spain, due to the recent situation there, where more than 2 400 workers have been made redundant from 181 companies in the 'Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products' sector.
in writing. - The report concerns the mobilisation of the EGF to the benefit of the Valencia region in Spain (EUR 6 598 735), following 2 425 redundancies in 181 enterprises operating in the 'Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products' sector.
For reasons of solidarity with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Ireland, and on the basis of the report by my excellent Italian colleague, Barbara Matera, I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the sum of approximately EUR 2.7 million in aid to Ireland, which is facing redundancies in the crystal sector.
Most of the 600 redundancies affect the company Waterford Crystal.
Coordination measures must be put in place at the local level to ensure that this funding is distributed correctly.
I therefore welcome the role that the European Community has played in providing economic and social aid to Ireland, with the aim of peace and reconciliation.
in writing. - I wholeheartedly welcome this decision to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to assist the Waterford Crystal workers.
The global economic crisis, coupled with major shifts in world trade, has made many workers redundant in Ireland and across Europe.
There is a need to revise the regulation of the EGF to enable greater flexibility in the use of the resources provided, particularly with regard to the timeframe.
These have affected the Irish glass sector, and today, almost 600 workers are in a situation where they need assistance.
In view of the objectives of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), I am voting in favour of granting assistance to the workers made redundant from the Waterford Crystal companies in the Republic of Ireland.
This aid amounts to more than EUR 2.5 million, which will be vital for encouraging those affected to improve their skills, as the great majority of them are over 45 years old.
I believe that this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions as laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006.
I agreed with this report and the Commission's proposal to mobilise an amount of EUR 2 570 853, because only measures that help redundant people to integrate into the labour market are financed with money from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) and money from this fund creates the conditions for redundant workers to find permanent or temporary jobs, to participate in vocational training programmes and to acquire the knowledge necessary to match the needs of the labour market, to acquire a business licence or become self-employed.
Lithuania, too, has already taken advantage of support from this fund.
Given the situation that the impact of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union has forced them into, one might feel justified in voting against the pittance that the European elite have seen fit to offer them.
However, at least the little that they do receive may help to relieve their suffering.
It endorses the current speculation by the banks and sanctions the profits that US funds such as KPS Capital Partners are making on the backs of European workers.
In the kingdom of the Eurocrats, a clean conscience comes cheap.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocation due to globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in various countries, particularly China and India, often to the detriment of countries that respect workers' rights.
The aim of the EGF is to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, and it is fundamental in facilitating their future access to new employment.
The total amount of support in these cases amounts to EUR 11 million and will target 3 663 redundant workers.
Although the assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund will not solve all the problems caused by the financial and economic crisis, I urge EU institutions to perform effective and timely evaluation of applications, as well as the Member States to participate actively in this fund.
For reasons of solidarity with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), and on the basis of the report by my Italian colleague, Barbara Matera (PPE, IT), I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the sum of approximately EUR 2 million in aid to Spain, which is facing redundancies in the timber product manufacturing sector.
In fact, the Kingdom of Spain justifies its request on the basis of the principle that the economic and financial crisis caused a sudden collapse in the global economy, which had a serious knock-on effect on numerous sectors, especially on demand in the construction sector and, hence, on timber products.
I voted in favour of granting aid under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in view of the extremely negative impact of the closure of 36 timber companies in the space of nine months in the Spanish region of Castilla-La Mancha, resulting in 585 people losing their jobs.
This situation is made all the more serious by the fact that this region suffers from depopulation and a workforce that is almost entirely lacking in any other kind of training.
On 9 October 2009, Spain submitted an application to the Commission to mobilise a global amount of EUR 1 950 000 under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), in respect of the 585 workers made redundant from 36 companies involved in the manufacture of wood and timber and cork products, except furniture and the manufacture of articles containing straw and plaiting materials in the Castilla-La Mancha region in the nine month reporting period from 1 November 2008 to 31 July 2009.
I agree with the Commission's assessment that this application fulfils the eligibility criteria set by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) Regulation and the Commission's recommendation to the Budget Authority to approve the application, because only measures that help redundant people to integrate into the labour market are financed with money from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) and money from this fund creates the conditions for redundant workers to find permanent or temporary jobs, to participate in vocational training programmes and to acquire the knowledge necessary to match the needs of the labour market, to acquire a business licence or become self-employed.
Lithuania, too, has already taken advantage of support from this fund.
Given the situation that the impact of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union has forced them into, one might feel justified in voting against the pittance that the European elite have seen fit to offer them.
However, at least the little that they do receive may help to relieve their suffering.
A clean conscience comes easy for the Eurocrat tyrants.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocation due to globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in various countries, particularly China and India, often to the detriment of countries that respect workers' rights.
The aim of the EGF is to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, and it is fundamental in facilitating their future access to new employment.
In the past, the EGF has been used by other EU countries, so it should now extend the same help to Castilla-La Mancha, Spain, due to 585 redundancies at 36 companies operating in the wood and cork products industries sector, with the exception of furniture and the manufacture of straw and plaiting items.
in writing. - The report concerns the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to the benefit of the Castilla-La Mancha region in Spain (EUR 1 950 000), following 585 redundancies in 36 enterprises operating in the 'manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture; manufacture of articles of straw and plaiting materials' sector.
The report was adopted in the Committee on Budgets without debate.
For reasons of solidarity with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), and on the basis of the report by my Italian colleague, Barbara Matera, I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the sum of EUR 1.1 million to finance technical assistance activities in connection with the EGF.
I agree with this report because more than half of the technical assistance resources allocated to the Commission will be used to finance studies and evaluations of ongoing European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) cases and to implement them, extracting successes and learning for the future, and part of the technical appropriations will be used to establish a database on long-term reintegration into the labour market.
I would further encourage the Member States to exchange best practice opportunities and to learn particularly from those Member States that already have in place national information networks on the EGF involving the social partners and stakeholders at local level with a view to having a sound structure for assistance in place once mass redundancies occur.
The European Commission is calling for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund so as to be able to offer suitable and sufficient technical assistance in response to the many requests from different countries experiencing an increase in the number of unemployed workers due to the international economic and financial crisis, and to globalisation, which are affecting the solvency of many companies.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which promotes better implementation of aid and aid mechanisms targeted at redundant workers as I recognise the importance of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in retraining manual workers and mitigating the socio-economic impact of the global crisis.
In addition to strengthening measures for better monitoring, auditing and evaluation of the implementation of the support plans which have been approved, I would like to point out the need to concern ourselves and make an effort to promote initiatives which lead to a greater and more widespread use of funds from the EGF by the Member States, especially Portugal.
I agreed with this report and the Commission's proposal to mobilise an amount of EUR 1 110 000 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) to finance technical assistance for the Commission.
A maximum of EUR 1.75 million can be used each year in order to cover the needs indicated for the implementation of the fund.
I agreed with the Commission's proposal that this amount should cover the following activities: activities linked to the EGF mid-term evaluation - monitoring and implementation studies, creation of a knowledge base, exchange of information and experience among Member States and Commission experts and auditors, development of networks, organisation of meetings of the Expert Group of the EGF, organisation of seminars on the implementation of the fund, as well as information and publicity activities and a further development of the EGF website and the funding of publications in all EU languages.
The activities of the EGF play an important role and the purpose of money from this fund is to provide one-off support to employees made redundant as a result of globalisation or the global financial or economic crisis in order to facilitate their return to the labour market.
I voted in favour of the report in question in the overwhelming belief that it is important for the procedures surrounding the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to be more dynamic.
The decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2010 calls for the sum of EUR 1 110 000 to be mobilised to finance control and monitoring activities, but primarily to finance information activities and technical and administrative assistance in connection with the use of the resources by Member States and social partners.
Since 1 May 2009, it has also been possible to use this fund to support workers made redundant as a result of the effects of the economic crisis and of the financial markets, which makes it even more relevant and necessary.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocations due to globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in various countries, particularly China and India, often to the detriment of countries that respect workers' rights.
The aim of the EGF is to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, and it is fundamental in facilitating their future access to new employment.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is intended to provide swift assistance to those workers who have fallen victim to structural changes in international trade patterns.
in writing. - The report concerns the mobilisation of EUR 1 110 000 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) to provide technical assistance at the initiative of the Commission.
According to the Commission's proposal, this amount is intended to cover the following activities: Activities linked to the EGF mid-term evaluation (Art. 17) - monitoring and implementation studies, creation of a knowledge base, exchange of information and experience among Member States and Commission experts and auditors, development of networks, organisation of meetings of the Expert Group of Contact Persons of the EGF, organisation of seminars on the implementation of the fund, as well as information and publicity activities (Art. 9) and further development of the EGF website and publications in all EU languages.
The report was adopted in COBU without debate.
Since the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was established in 2006, almost 30 applications have been made for amounts totalling EUR 154 million and assistance has been provided for 33 000 workers throughout Europe.
Between October 2008 and July 2009, more than 1 600 workers employed by Lithuanian construction companies lost their jobs.
in writing. - The EGF was created in order to aid those workers who have been negatively affected by globalisation.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is vital in supporting the reintegration of workers made redundant from the labour market as a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
The European institutions have played an important role in assisting the economic recovery of the Member States that are most in need.
Once again, I am calling for the EU institutions to act together in applying it in a rapid and flexible manner, on the basis of simplified procedures that respond rapidly to the needs of the workers most affected by the current economic downturn.
According to a survey published by the Region of Sicily at the end of 2009, 75% of citizens believe that European funds have no positive impact whatsoever, or very little.
Enabling citizens to monitor European funds not only represents a fundamental manifestation of the democratic process but also constitutes a deterrent to any form of siphoning off of those public resources.
I voted in favour of this report, which advocates a concerted and accessible approach towards the interregional exchange of best practice, with the aim of enabling those involved in cohesion policy to draw on the experience of others.
Use of the funds should indeed be more transparent, but that should not be an excuse for making the procedures for applying for European funding excessively onerous.
Thanks to our action, additional information will be available to European citizens on the use of the European funds, yes, but this will not increase bureaucracy.
I therefore voted for the amended version of this report.
I voted in favour of the own initiative report by my fellow Greek Member, Michail Tremopoulos, on transparency in regional policy and its funding.
I welcome the European Transparency Initiative (ETI) adopted by the European Commission in order to improve transparency, openness and responsibility in the governance of the European Union.
I support the need for regulation and application methods which guarantee that procedures are transparent, offer potential beneficiaries better access to the Structural Funds and reduce the administrative burden on participants.
The managing authorities in the Member States must present all stages of projects financed by the Structural Funds in a transparent manner.
I vow that Members of the European Parliament will be informed and involved in the implementation of projects in their constituencies.
in writing. - I have voted for this report.
In order to ensure transparency of the use of funds, the European Transparency Initiative should be implemented in its fullest.
Currently, there is insufficient information about Commission decisions on the funding of major.
I believe that transparency should be ensured at all levels as it goes hand in hand with the process of simplifying the procedures for obtaining Structural Funds and enables public participation in a debate on how public money is spent which is essential for the efficient use of the EU funds.
At a time like this, when the economic and financial crisis is manifesting itself as a horizontal phenomenon that sweeps across all sectors indiscriminately, the sector of agriculture is no exception and requires emphatic financial support and transparency.
I will vote in favour of this report for the very reason that I believe that more information and, above all, simpler information, can bring the complex world of EU cohesion policy closer to the world of enterprise.
The European Transparency Initiative has been in force since 2005 when it was adopted by the Commission.
Publishing information online about major projects prior to making decisions about their funding is a common practice within international financial institutions.
Transparency about the way in which the structural funds are allocated, particularly through ex post publication of the beneficiaries, the names of operations and the amount of public funding given to the operations, is central to the discussion on how to spend European public money.
I welcome the recommendations of this report in that they contribute to a culture of mutual trust between all stakeholders, which will lead to better use of the European funds.
in writing. - There are many funds in the EU that are made available to citizens as well as other entities.
Many complain that the procedures for gaining access to such funds are complicated and excessively bureaucratic.
I am in agreement with the conclusions reached by the rapporteur and have hence decided to vote in favour of this report.
I am voting in favour of the measures proposed in this report as I believe that transparency must be a key condition for achieving the general objectives of all policies, and especially cohesion policies.
The variability of presentation and accessibility conditions of data resulting from the obvious differences between the Member States and managing authorities in interpreting the minimum requirements of the European Transparency Initiative makes a full comparison at EU level impossible.
Reducing bureaucracy, simplifying the process for obtaining funds and allowing greater control of financial management are positive steps.
I also believe that the proposal for bilingualism in official information provided by the Member States to the public on the process for providing funds is a good idea.
I voted in favour of the report on transparency in regional policy and the funding behind it so as to ensure greater control over the way in which public funds are used.
Regional policy and the European Union Cohesion Fund are fundamental for the principle of solidarity among Member States.
It is crucial that the resources for them are used efficiently and in a focused manner, and that they contribute to the development of the areas to which they are awarded.
The transparency of regional policy and its funding are particularly sensitive topics and of considerable interest to the area I represent.
Most of the resources (83%) are allocated to regions whose development is lagging behind and these include the regions of southern Italy.
I agree with the rapporteur in considering that the Commission's European Transparency Initiative (ETI) must be backed by reference parameters that are the same for all, in order to guarantee a homogeneous and effective level of transparency.
in writing. - The Tremopoulos report takes as its starting point the idea that transparency is a prerequisite to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and I fully support calls for greater transparency in regional policy.
The report also calls for Member States to fully involve regional and local authorities in implementing policies and I am sure that when Scotland is independent, the Scottish Government will fully involve all Scotland's regions in these matters.
Providing public information on the recipients of EU funds is a cornerstone of the European Transparency Initiative (ETI).
I believe that the requirement in the Financial Regulation for Member States to provide information on how EU funds under shared management are spent, in particular, through the ex-post publication of beneficiaries, is insufficient.
The variability in the presentation and in the conditions of access to data does not allow a complete comparison at EU level.
I have a good opinion of the work undertaken by the Commission and Parliament regarding transparency in regional policy and its funding.
I would also like to express the hope that the measures being taken will bring about the creation of new regulations and published data which have been inspired by observation, thanks to which implementation procedures will become simpler and more transparent.
With a view to bringing Europe's institutions and agencies closer to the citizens which they serve and highlighting the contribution they make to social and economic cohesion, as well as sustainable development in Europe, one of the European Union's fundamental concerns is how to increase its transparency.
This will enable us to gain a complete overview at European level of the data submitted while, at the same time, gaining a greater degree of credibility and accountability in the eyes of Europe's citizens.
I voted for this report as I think that the need for transparency in regional policies with a view to increasing access for potential recipients to the European Transparency Initiative (ETI) database is particularly important.
I believe that it is vital to get local and regional authorities involved when it comes to the transparency of regional policies, as it is their duty to fulfil a dual role in this respect.
At the same time, local and regional authorities will play a crucial role in promoting this database via the most suitable means possible so that the information is as easily accessible as possible to citizens.
The traceability of beneficiaries, funds allocated and projects is a crucial aspect of the instruments governing the use of the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund, in order to guarantee transparency of expenditure.
Transparency in the use of Community funds and public information on the beneficiaries of the EU funds is essential to the European Transparency Initiative (ETI).
However, in this time of crisis, we need other mechanisms which allow greater transparency, particularly prior information by the Commission about decisions relating to funding large projects.
It is therefore essential to continue to develop all the available mechanisms which lead to greater transparency regarding all the beneficiaries of the EU funds.
in writing. - (DE) The European Transparency Initiative was started years ago, but has made limited progress.
If the EU is serious about transparency, then it must also be implemented consistently in decision making.
As ever, the transparency initiative is largely empty words, which is why I abstained from voting.
However, this must not result in the Commission being given such far-reaching powers that the Member States can no longer select their own projects and partners, for example.
The citizens must have access to information about how each euro is spent - because each euro comes from taxes which they have paid.
It saddens me to note that standards on transparency used in the European Commission when implementing regional policy are lower than in other institutions, including principally those in use in the European Investment Bank.
I share the resolution's satisfaction with progress on social control over distribution of funds for the realisation of regional policy objectives.
In view of these factors, I decided to endorse the resolution.
If we want to provide better access to the available funds for the potential beneficiaries of the European Structural Funds, it seems to me that the administrative constraints associated with funding applications will need to be made less cumbersome and the procedures for accessing EU funding more transparent.
I am therefore in favour of the publication by the European Commission of more information for the benefit of the general public about major projects carried out using these funds and whether the projects have been completed or are still under way.
in writing. - I want to salute and congratulate my colleague in the Greek Greens, Michail Tremopoulos, for the adoption today of his report on transparency and regional policy and its funding.
The result, 629 votes in favour and only 6 against, shows the great job he has done on it.
I supported and voted for the Tremopoulos report calling on the European Commission and the national managing authorities to use greater transparency in the allocation and use of Structural Funds.
It is important that we obtain comparable data regarding administration of the funds from across the Union, so that the project owners and citizens can be aware of what the EU's funding priorities are, which stakeholders have already received funds, how the funds have been used and what the procedures and timescales are for the various projects.
The goal in doing this is to make potential beneficiaries more aware of these funds, and to monitor their use more effectively.
Therefore, it is important for citizens to be given the opportunity to become witnesses and have an influence in allocating these resources.
The participation of society might occur in various ways in the decision-making process - allocating EU funds and implementing them.
Greater participation by society would reduce the level of corruption and increase the effective use of funds, which is particularly important for a country like Lithuania.
It is also important for the recipients of EU funds to be made public.
That would encourage discussions on the use of public money in the country, which again is one of the fundamental principles of a functioning democratic state.
I would also like to underline the need for regional and local institutions and, above all, ordinary citizens, to participate.
in writing. - On behalf of the S&amp;D Group, I want to express our general consent to this report.
It is important that the European Parliament fights for greater transparency in regional policy, but we reject the so-called 'naming and shaming', as asked for in point 16 of this report.
We also reject this approach as it could lead to a more complex situation and non-implementation in the Member States.
Owing to the fact that, on legal basis grounds, the Court of Justice of the European Union recently annulled Regulation (EC) No 1968/2006, which rightly allowed these financial contributions, the Members of the European Parliament had to adopt a new regulation based on the appropriate legal basis.
I voted in favour of this report on the EU's ongoing contributions to the International Fund for Ireland.
The European Union has paid EUR 15 million into the fund for the period 2007-2010.
The fund had a positive impact on matters both in Ireland and in Northern Ireland, and it has helped and supported many cross-border initiatives since it was established in 1986.
The fund had a clear and significant effect on the communities concerned, and it contributed greatly to efforts to achieve permanent peace, particularly as regards activities carried out in cooperation with the PEACE programme in Northern Ireland and in the border counties.
Both in Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic, the projects foster contact, dialogue and reconciliation between nationalists and unionists.
This international support will, however, be coming to an end in 2010.
The projects covered by the International Fund for Ireland already complement the actions under the EU PEACE programmes.
I therefore call upon the European Commission to look into how the Structural Funds might continue the role of the International Fund for Ireland, particularly within the framework of the 'European territorial cooperation' objective.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the rapporteur and hence decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Kelly Report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning EU financial contributions to the International Fund for Ireland (IFI).
Such inter-regional cooperation and reconciliation projects should be supported, in particular, with a view to furthering social and economic progress.
The peace process in Northern Ireland is an example of success that has deserved, and should continue to deserve, the support of the European institutions.
I voted in favour of the extension of the International Fund for Ireland, as I believe that it is important to emphasise the European Union's mission of peace between peoples and communities as a key factor for economic and social development, as well as for enhancing human dignity and quality of life for citizens.
The European Union should continue to play a key role in maintaining peace and eliminating regional, ethnic and cultural tension, and thus promoting conditions for social and economic progress.
Since its institution in 1986, the International Fund for Ireland has contributed to promoting economic and social progress and encouraging contact, dialogue and reconciliation between the nationalists and the unionists throughout Ireland.
The EU needs to continue to support the peace process in Ireland with contributions to the International Fund for Ireland, as it has done since 1989.
Stepping up this support will serve to strengthen solidarity between the Member States and their respective citizens.
This was a vote at second reading on the regulation concerning a European rail network for competitive freight.
I voted in favour of the compromises worked out between Parliament and the Council of the EU.
These compromises should, in fact, allow conditions to be promoted for better governance in allocating access capacities and in managing the major intra-European rail freight corridors.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour of the text negotiated with the Council in order to reach agreement at second reading.
I voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading contained in the report by my Romanian friend, Marian-Jean Marinescu, on the Council position at first reading for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning a European rail network for competitive freight.
I support the amendments made in connection with the organisation of international rail corridors with a view to creating a European rail network for competitive freight.
Now, as Lithuania is experiencing the painful consequences of the economic crisis, this decision is particularly favourable because Lithuania, like other countries badly affected by the crisis, has limited financial opportunities to invest in rail infrastructure development projects in the near future.
The freight sector at EU level has a huge amount of potential to offer at a time when it is enjoying steady growth.
The rail freight market must now tackle the challenges posed in improving the quality of the services provided due to the lack of compliance, which is a handicap when competing with other forms of freight transport.
in writing. - I support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
However, this vote does not concern deregulation, which is already in the treaty.
in writing. - I support all efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
However, I want to make it clear that I oppose the ongoing liberalisation of railways in the European Union, which is responsible for the fragmentation and ineffectiveness of rail freight today, as well as the lack of investment in this area.
This vote does not concern deregulation, which is already provided for in the treaty.
The draft regulation defines corridors for rail freight, in other words, routes crossing several Member States on which managers coordinate the management and operation of the infrastructure.
This offers real European added value, because this regulation will improve transparency in the allocation and management of slots and will promote transnational coordination at all levels: available capacities, investments, infrastructure works, operational management and so forth.
This regulation is therefore a strong signal in favour of a real European transport and infrastructure policy.
It is an essential step towards rail freight which is quicker and more reliable and, hence, a credible and ecological alternative to long-distance road transport.
I voted in favour of this report on contributing to creating a more competitive European rail freight network.
The changeability of the transport sector in recent decades and the increasing openness of national rail markets (creating serious problems with their lack of conformity) necessitate the implementation of these measures, which will contribute to creating an efficient distribution network between the EU Member States.
In December 2008, it proposed a regulation on a European rail network for the competitive transportation of goods.
In April 2009, the European Parliament adopted its first reading on the proposal, giving its support to the Commission.
Without questioning the importance of rail transport of goods and the need for European coordination of this transport, and supporting the creation of so-called freight corridors, the fact is that, in the current economic and financial climate in EU countries, creating an integrated freight transport system necessarily presupposes very high investment from the Member States, and we cannot guarantee that they are in a position to promise or supply such investment.
I welcomed the vote in plenary that approved the recommendation for second reading with regard to a regulation concerning the European rail network for competitive freight.
The report provides for the implementation of nine goods corridors between European Union Member States and the setting up of a one-stop shop for each corridor with the aim of guaranteeing all public and private rail companies the necessary information on the allocation of capacity for each corridor.
This regulation certainly represents a great step forward towards the coordination of European rail traffic, currently for freight only, and complements the liberalisation of the rail market, an absolute priority within this sector.
It represents a major step forward for freight and transport in Europe, which will now be more competitive and less expensive.
This is an important step in the sustainable development of the rail transport sector in Europe, which will thus be able, at long last, to offer a real alternative to air and road transport.
This innovation allows Europe to move forward and characterises its will to achieve better cooperation and greater integration in the transport sector.
I support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
However, I want to make it clear that I oppose the ongoing liberalisation of railways in the European Union, which is responsible for the fragmentation, lack of investment and ineffectiveness of rail freight today.
This vote does not, however, concern deregulation, which is already in the treaty.
We want to see flexible and efficient solutions and we also believe in promoting rail transport for environmental reasons.
However, local and long-distance passenger transport must not be affected in any way.
The highly complex text of the report does not include a clear statement of this kind.
In Germany, which is a traditional transit country, the rail network is already operating almost at full capacity.
The European Parliament's good reputation as the main body providing protection for consumers in Europe has been damaged today.
The Member States will lose the authority to make decisions about their own rail networks and all the citizens of Europe will be affected by the resulting train delays.
I am voting against this damaging text.
A European rail network for competitive freight transport is vital if the EU is to achieve the objectives set out in the EU strategy for employment and growth.
In view of this, the creation of rail corridors which allow rapid and efficient links between one national network and another will allow for improvements in the conditions for using the infrastructure.
It is vital that we approve the present regulation in order to make rail freight transport more competitive compared with what is currently in use.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against the compromise proposals for the regulation concerning a European rail network for competitive freight.
If the EU really wants to encourage more freight onto the rail network, then it should set priorities in the realisation of the trans-European transport networks.
In its first reading of April 2009, my group supported the objective of a competitive rail freight network through the creation of corridors across the European Union, as set out in the Commission proposal of December 2008.
My support for this agreement is also strengthened by the importance of the rail network in Lithuania and the economic perspective it offers my country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I could not support the group of four compromise amendments, because Estonia and Latvia were left out of the rail corridor described in Annex I, point 8.
Taking into account the future of the railway in general, as well as the Rail Baltica project, one would have expected that this corridor would also include Tallinn and Riga.
Unfortunately, the adopted amendments restricted our options - those of Estonia and Latvia - and, as a result, we have moved no closer to linking up all the European Union Member States into a uniform railway system.
in writing. - I support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
However this vote does not concern deregulation, which is already in the treaty.
This report aims to try to increase the market share of rail freight by creating corridors between at least two Member States so that the goods can be transported quickly.
This network of corridors will allow better synchronisation of European rail services.
It will create interfaces between different modes of transport and provide a new impetus for investment in the sector.
I absolutely reject this report, albeit that unfortunately, no final vote is possible in the second reading.
I would urgently advise Deutsche Bahn to look into taking legal action against this decision.
In addition, the situation is complicated by the fact that some Member States have not yet deregulated access to their railway market.
In view of the foregoing, I voted against the second part of Amendment 83.
It became necessary to introduce the amendments to the Rules of Procedure in order to take into account the arrival of 18 new Members, the increase in legislative powers and the new budgetary procedure which puts Parliament on an equal footing with the Council.
With this treaty, it managed to do this in a balanced, credible and fair way, improving the consistency, legitimacy, democracy, effectiveness and transparency of decision making, clarifying the division of competences between the European Union and the Member States, and contributing to greater efficiency in inter- and intra-institutional relations within the EU.
The changes in commitment achieved with this adaptation of the Rules of Procedure for the Treaty of Lisbon are largely the result of efforts by the Group of the European People's Party (PPE) to clarify and simplify the decision-making process in Parliament and its relationship with the national parliaments.
The European institutions' great legislative output and the participative method by which such legislation is produced, the profusion of documents which is frequently involved, and the fact that the hierarchies between sources and legal standards are not always clear, make it essential for Parliament to lessen these risks by working towards the adequacy of their statute on the recent Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to point out the impact of reinforcing Parliament's powers, the new makeup of national representation and the introduction of closer relations with national parliaments.
I agree with the changes now proposed to the Rules of Procedure, also considering the simplification and clear determination of the regulatory procedures so as to further enhance responsiveness to the needs of the public, the institutions and the Member States, while also ensuring conditions for the efficient implementation of European policies.
in writing. - I voted against Amendment 110, which envisages this House having cooperation with Member State parliaments but not with sub-Member State parliaments.
The amendment also ignores the political realities of other Member States: it is ridiculous that this House cannot fully cooperate with the Scottish Parliament on matters such as fisheries, where Scotland holds the biggest UK stake.
The approval of the Treaty of Lisbon has given Parliament new responsibilities, and this means that it is necessary for it to adapt its internal Rules of Procedure to the new provisions.
This is particularly wrong and unfair, since it would be lost in the mire of the debate on the major adaptations to the Treaty of Lisbon.
For example, it is proposed that non-attached Members could no longer decide themselves who is to represent them, as is the case at present.
In my opinion, the representative of the non-attached Members can only be chosen by a vote among the full assembly of non-attached Members.
I therefore voted against the proposed amendment.
I have voted in favour of the resolution because it is important to provide help for people who have been hit by disaster.
The European Parliament has taken a decision on the adaptation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the Treaty of Lisbon.
Of the amendments to Parliament's Rules of Procedure that have been adopted by the MEPs, there are some which provide for the arrival of 18 new MEPs from 12 Member States, for the strengthening of legislative powers and for the introduction of a new budget procedure, thereby putting Parliament on an equal footing with the Council.
The amendments made to the Rules of Procedure also take account of the rules on the budget, insofar as Parliament will take decisions on this matter in cooperation with the Council.
Moreover, changes that I regard as highly important relate to abiding by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the right of MEPs to table amendments to the treaties, the procedure for electing the President of the Commission and, above all, the deletion of specific provisions relating to the appointment of the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
I am voting in favour of the David Martin Report following a long period of negotiation involving all the members of the Group of the European People's Party (PPE) Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which I am a member.
Following an initial vote at the November session, which secured the necessary changes that were directly related to the Treaty of Lisbon's entry into force, the other amendments have been postponed so as to allow for a longer period of reflection.
I would, however, like to highlight the amendments relating to interparliamentary cooperation, the relationship between Parliament and national parliaments during the legislative process and the composition of Parliament's delegation to COSAC - three issues to which, as Vice-President of the PPE in charge of relations with national parliament, I have had to devote special attention.
I am voting in favour of further changes to the document, among which I would like to highlight the introduction of a provision on subsidiarity and proportionality in assessing the legislation and on Parliament's relationship with national parliaments during the legislative process.
This second round of amendments ends the long process of adapting the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
Although the amendments voted on today concern, to a lesser extent, the fundamental changes related to the treaty which have strengthened Parliament in the decision-making process, they are an important addition to the changes to the Rules of Procedure and allow us to use the new possibilities to the full.
One of the fundamental objectives for 2011 will be maintaining, promoting and obtaining funding for technological research and development in the EU, providing sufficient funding for the framework programme, and thus contributing to the European 2020 strategy.
The increase in the number of requests for funding has grown in proportion to the increase in control mechanisms set out in an attempt to ensure that Community funds are used correctly.
Internal bureaucracy and the creation of ever more rules and administrative procedures reduce public confidence in the process.
The European Commission's draft budget for 2011 is not up to the challenges confronting Europe.
When we have EUR 142 billion of commitments - that is, 1.15% of Europe's GNI - the Commission proposes to finance new priorities, as well as programmes already included in the financial framework for 2007-2013, by taking from the funds of existing programmes and from a budget margin that has been reduced to virtually nothing.
The 2020 agenda for growth and employment, which is supposed to be the Union's road map for the next ten years, and the fight against climate change cannot truly take place without financial resources.
It is not acceptable to finance the upcoming instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries by taking money from development aid.
For example, we believe that it is important to invest in youth, research and innovation and green technology.
Parliament's role in negotiating the EU budget has been enhanced by the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
In this time of economic, financial and social crisis, funds to motivate the European Union's growth and competitiveness are crucial.
I recall that the budgetary process for 2011 was the first of its kind since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, and that it indisputably requires greater cooperation and coordination with the other arm of the budgetary authority.
I would like to highlight the concern and efforts made to ensure sufficient funding for the EU's strategic lines of development, especially in the fields of young people and innovation, alongside energy efficiency, combating climate change, and promoting employment and gender equality.
In the current context of crisis and the great pressure on the public finances of the Member States, I would like to reiterate the need to ensure budgetary sustainability in the EU in order to pursue the central objective of social and economic cohesion.
We voted against this report on the draft budget for 2011 as it does not correspond in the least to the needs facing the financing of the European Union today, where the creation of the euro area has exacerbated social and territorial inequalities, and it does not take the principle of economic and social cohesion properly into account.
In this time of crisis, there is an even greater need for another EU budget which at the very least doubles the funds so that at least half of the budget (calculated on the basis of 2% of the EU's gross national product) is devoted to investment in the productive sector and to supporting the social functions of the Member States.
On the other hand, it is also essential to increase rates of EU cofinancing for countries with weaker economies, particularly for social programmes and productive investment.
The draft budget for 2011 will be the first since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, and in preparing it there needs to be greater cooperation and coordination between all those involved during negotiations so that an agreement on total expenditure during the process can be reached.
The trialogue to be held in July must be unequivocal in preparing the way so that the points where there should be a greater consensus can be identified in advance.
The main points to keep in mind are the budgetary implications of the European Stabilisation Mechanism, the EU 2020 strategy and programmes concerning young people.
The 2011 budget contains numerous points which are open to serious criticism.
Therefore, I have voted against the report on the 2011 budget.
We tabled some more detailed AM on the 'greening' of structural funds, rural development and agricultural policy which, unsurprisingly, were all rejected, but which can be reintroduced for the more detailed 1st budgetary reading of Parliament in September.
I support the position of my group on this document by Parliament in response to the draft budget for 2011 proposed by the European Commission.
I am also pleased to see the inclusion of the youth programme as one of the priorities for the coming year in the Commission's draft, but I am disappointed that there has only been a token increase in funding, when more was expected from these initiatives.
The Members for the outermost regions and I have supported an amendment as we believe that it is unacceptable that the budget for 2011 is less than that for 2010 with regard to the Programme of Options Specifically Relating to Remoteness and Insularity, especially during a period when the conclusion of the agreement between the EU and Colombia and Peru will have serious repercussions on banana, sugar and rum production.
In doing so, we also call upon the Commission to promote a study on the impact of this situation on those regions as soon as possible.
The report on the mandate for the trialogue on the 2011 draft budget, which was adopted today at the plenary sitting of the European Parliament, mentions six priorities for the budget negotiations for 2011.
In item 12 of the general remarks, the report points out that the increase in appropriations in the draft budget for those programmes, despite the very high current implementation rate (reaching between 95-100% every year over the period 2007-2009), is insufficient.
I welcome the fact that the text which has been accepted calls for these appropriations to be increased, so that it will be possible to put the youth programmes into effect in a way which is appropriate to their significance for civil society in Europe.
The budget for 2011 is heavily influenced by the crisis and the recession and this is clear, among other things, from the very tight margins.
If the European Union wants to find a sustainable route out of the crisis, it is essential for it to invest in young people, because they represent our future.
In addition, given the economic situation in Europe, we must support a mandate for a socially balanced EU budget which also takes competitiveness into account.
As the recent economic and financial crisis has amply demonstrated, we need to implement a better regulated and more transparent strategy on derivative product markets to prevent excessively speculative situations.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
I supported it, because it seems to me to be crucial for Parliament to send a clear message to the Council and the Commission so that legislative measures are taken.
The objective is to avoid excessive speculation by introducing a standardised procedure and supervisory bodies, as well as by using a common register of transactions.
I voted for the own initiative report by my excellent German colleague, Werner Langen, on derivatives markets, which was drafted in response to the European Commission's communication on the same subject.
I voted for this report because I feel that we have to increase transparency in the derivatives market (trade in future transactions) and ensure greater regulation of this market.
Derivative instruments can play a useful role in allowing the transfer of financial risks within an economy, but as a result of the lack of transparency and regulation, they played an exacerbating role in the financial crisis.
I welcome the Commission's initiative for better regulation of derivatives and, in particular, over-the-counter derivatives, with a view to reducing the impact of the risks for the stability of financial markets as a whole, and for standardisation of derivatives contracts, the use of centralised data storage and organised trading venues.
We should nevertheless stress another point, which is a basic principle in any discussion of finance, the economic crisis and the market.
I should like first of all to congratulate my friend and colleague, Mr Langen, on the draft report put to the vote today in this House.
Many citizens and numerous local authorities, including in Italy, have fallen victim to these high risk instruments, and are now finding themselves with alarming budget deficits.
In order to prevent such unfortunate situations, I believe it is appropriate, indeed necessary, to regulate derivatives properly, so as to have a more stable and secure market that enables operators and consumers to take informed decisions.
The European Union must become the champion of a radical change from the financial policy of the past and must send out strong signals to prevent instruments such as over-the-counter derivatives from being able to jeopardise the entire financial market in future.
Non-financial firms use these instruments to ensure that risks related to currency, interest and raw materials are covered.
One of the basic causes of economic and financial instability is the development and increase in non-banking transactions, which include risk premiums and other financial derivatives.
The derivatives market, as has been proven with the economic, financial and social crisis that we are currently experiencing, needs efficient regulation which allows for greater transparency in the marketing of these financial instruments.
These products must undergo more effective supervision so that trade in them does not have adverse effects on the market.
I voted in favour of the Langen Report on derivatives markets because, like the rapporteur, I am certain that the sector needs to be regulated and that there needs to be greater transparency in the derivatives markets.
It is important to distinguish, as the rapporteur indeed does, between derivatives instruments that are used to cover risks directly associated with the companies' business and those that are used solely for speculative purposes.
In the past, derivative instruments played an important role by transferring risk in the economy.
However, the lack of transparency and regulation in the derivatives markets had an extremely pernicious effect on the financial crisis.
in writing. - I am glad the key paragraphs of the resolution remained in the text, mainly paragraphs 33, 34, 35 and 36, as well as recitals K, S and X.
This own initiative report by the European Parliament is intended as a response to the European Commission's communication, which contains 14 measures to be taken in order to ensure that the EU takes the lead in the development of these new networks of interconnected objects.
As I am completely in agreement with these priorities, I voted in favour of this own initiative report.
Developments in information and communications technology (ICT) have brought about a veritable revolution in the field of knowledge over the last 20 years, above all, due to the public's increasing familiarity with the Internet and the World Wide Web.
If the EU really wants to have a leading position in this market, it should adopt a proactive approach in this field by stimulating research and pilot projects.
For example, a fridge might be programmed to recognise expired or nearly expired products.
These technological innovations can help to respond to the various expectations of society and the public, as well as acting as a catalyst for growth and innovation, providing benefits for the economy and public well-being.
Sufficient data protection measures must be put in place to safeguard against possible misuse and other risks associated with personal data.
I voted in favour of this report.
The development of the Internet of Things both represents a great opportunity for growth and competitiveness and leads to major social change, with a significant impact on citizens' behaviour.
For this reason, I welcome the Commission's intention to publish a communication in 2010 on respect for privacy and trust in the information society, since in my view, it is crucial to permanently monitor aspects relating to personal data protection.
Equally important is the debate on the technical and legal aspects of the right to 'chip silence'.
I voted for the 'Report on the Internet of Things' because I felt that adopting this report will boost the development of an innovative technology in the European Union.
The new system for integrating technologies into everyday life must be implemented in strict compliance with the consumers' rights to privacy.
Along with the right to silence, these mechanisms must only be integrated at the individual's request and not as a standard production feature.
As far as I see it, using the World Wide Web to connect to the Internet of Things may pose a security risk and place a considerable burden on the current network.
The development of a parallel network for connecting objects may provide the solution in the current situation through sharing the digital spectrum and dividend.
I voted in favour of the Badia i Cutchet report in support of the creation of an Internet of Things.
I believe that new information technologies have significant benefits for our society, but it is important to ensure that the potential impacts on health and the environment are taken into account, along with aspects related to the protection of privacy.
The exponential increase in content on the Internet has made it a tool with many uses, and these uses are multiplying.
I share the concerns included in the resolution on the need to address restrictions on Internet access for political reasons as well as bringing about greater security for children and adolescents in using the network.
The impact of new technology on the public's security and quality of life is indisputable, and this highlights both the benefits and the risks that it entails.
In this context, the 'Internet of Things' involves a new set of advantages for people, without impeding the identification of possible risks inherent in a tool with great potential.
I would like to emphasise the approach of stimulating research and launching pilot projects, along with making the most of opportunities that are arising, particularly in optimising energy saving, production processes, creating new jobs and challenges.
However, it is vital that the EU has a common frame of reference to reinforce the provisions relating to overseeing the system, confidentiality, information security, ethical management, privacy, collection and storage of personal data and consumer information.
The rapid evolution of the 'Internet of Things' calls for governance of it that is safe, transparent and multilateral.
The Internet of Things is a project that was started in 1999 in the US.
The process of developing the Internet of Things, with all the innovation and positive aspects that it can bring to our everyday lives, also has a great margin of uncertainty, both at a conceptual and technical level, which merits some concerns.
The chip, only a few millimetres wide, can contain, receive and transmit information without any cable connection.
So-called information and communication technologies (ICT) have played an important role in promoting social development, economic growth, research, innovation and creativity in public and private European bodies.
The rapid changes that the Internet has undergone in recent years have led to new concerns and the need for the European Union to have a common frame of reference to reinforce the existing provisions relating to running the system, particularly concerning confidentiality, information security, ethical management, privacy, and the collection and storage of personal data and consumer information.
The Internet represents the onslaught of a new kind of networking technology that aims to bring about some sort of communication between people and objects, as well as between objects and objects.
I voted in favour of the report because the measures proposed by the author on the protection of the private sphere and of personal data are clearly needed.
This report is moving in this direction, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
I voted for this report because the Internet of Things will revive the economy shackled by the crisis and will help to create new jobs and new services for an increasing number of EU citizens and companies.
This will also allow us to optimise manufacturing processes and save energy which is very important in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - We Greens have strongly supported this report by our socialist colleague, Badia i Cutchet.
It uses RFID (radio frequency identification) technology to receive and transmit information wirelessly.
In the agri-food sector, for example, RFID allows better and faster product traceability, and provides information about content: chemical characteristics, gluten levels, etc.
Similar applications are already in use, such as a chip that can convey real-time information about tyre pressure to a driver.
Combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography is vitally important.
The German Free Democratic Party in the European Parliament is of the opinion that it is necessary to remove such criminal content as quickly as possible.
I voted in favour of this own initiative report, which aims to influence the upcoming forum on the governance of the Internet, to be held in Vilnius from 25 to 29 September.
It also calls on the EU to develop a strategy on the fundamental aspects of the governance of the Internet, as well as to encourage reform of ICANN (Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers).
The tool that has bridged time and distance for communications offers enormous potential benefits yet is, at the same time, a daily source of risks to both personal data protection and to children.
It is essential to ensure the free circulation of information and communication, but in the certainty that the weakest individuals and most sensitive data continue to receive proper protection.
The European Union should develop a strategy that reflects a consensus view of the fundamental aspects of Internet governance and one which can be firmly defended on the international stage and in its bilateral relations with the US.
I support the European Commission's favourable stance towards the current management model based on leadership in the private sector.
The Internet has had a massive impact on society and public life over the last 20 years.
Governing the Internet has been a top priority in public policy, seeking to ensure that the public can enjoy the full potential of the Internet while, at the same time, seeking the best solutions to the problem of inappropriate or illegal content, along with providing sufficient protection for consumers and trying to resolve problems of jurisdictional authority in an online global sphere.
I fully agree with the idea that the Internet is a global public good which should always protect and respect the public interest.
It is important to move towards an internal reform of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers so that it has a more representative structure, with greater control by the international community, as well as being more accountable and transparent.
I voted in favour of the report on governance of the Internet, which covers sensitive issues such as the protection and safeguarding of fundamental rights and freedoms, Internet access and use, and cybercrime.
The Spanish Presidency's proposal of the creation of a European charter on the rights of Internet users and the recognition of a fifth fundamental freedom (freedom of access to the network) could give the EU more efficient instruments that would allow it to guarantee greater protection for security-related issues, on the one hand, and widespread and non-discriminatory access to the network, on the other.
It is an indisputable fact that the Internet now has a public role, influencing not only daily life but also mass movements, political ideas and communication strategies.
They should call for greater access and participation in the governance of the Internet without undermining the leading role of private use and daily management of the network in doing so, as this has proved essential for the vitality and growth of the Internet.
In view of this, I voted in favour of this report, stressing the importance of widening representation of global diversity in the bodies that currently control the Internet market, such as the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).
This report arises from the important role of the Internet, which has become an indispensable tool for promoting democratic initiatives, political debate, digital literacy and the dissemination of knowledge.
Internet access both ensures and depends on the exercising of a number of fundamental rights, including respect for private life, data protection, freedom of expression and association, freedom of the press, non-discrimination, education and cultural and linguistic diversity.
Lastly, it shows concern with the structure of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), which is hardly representative, and the limited control which the international community, including the EU, is able to exert on the operation of ICANN.
in writing. - This report recognises the importance of the Internet in promoting cultural diversity and encouraging democratic citizenship.
The debate on Internet governance is certainly of particular importance in the situation where this means of communication has become absolutely essential in many countries in both people's professional and personal life.
The report which we voted on today is vital for creating a governance model which also involves end consumers.
I believe that we need to encourage cooperation between universities and the business world, including at local, regional and national level.
At the same time, we must also get actors involved from the Asian market, bearing in mind the extremely rapid rate of development of this area.
Furthermore, it is important for us to devote a great deal of attention to finding a balance between protecting users' privacy and recording personal data on different websites, not only because of the emergence of social networks, but also because of the development of online shopping.
Another extremely important fact is that the Internet provides an excellent vehicle for promoting Europe's cultural heritage and values, as well as a driving force for innovation, enabling us to narrow the gap in relation to other regions in the world.
Today, the Internet is one of the main means of disseminating democratic values throughout the world, and it is an indispensable tool for promoting all kinds of ideas, political debate and the spread of knowledge.
It is therefore crucial that the Internet is developed in such a way that everyone within the EU has more equal access to it.
If we are to maintain the Internet's status as a global public good, we must avoid a scenario where it is dominated by an individual entity or group of organisations.
That is why I voted today in favour of the report by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on Internet governance, noting that the EU should adopt a strategy that includes access to the Internet without discrimination and safeguards the neutrality of the Internet, respect for privacy, data protection, freedom of expression and protection for minors.
Moreover, more than 60% of the European population now has access to the world of information technology.
First of all, my congratulations to the rapporteur on his report and its excellent timing given the proximity of the next meeting of the Internet Governance Forum (IGF), which will be taking place in the EU for the first time.
The EU has been taking part in the IGF since its inception, but the fact that it is being held in Vilnius makes our delegation even more relevant.
The EU's delegation has already expressed in Sharm-el-Sheikh its agreement that the IGF should continue in its current form because of the important role that it plays as an instrument for open dialogue between all the actors involved in Internet governance.
This must continue to be our position in the debates that are to take place in Vilnius.
in writing. - I have voted against at the final vote of this report because it included the promotion of governmental interference with Internet governance, which is not exactly the Green position.
The members of the German Free Democratic Party in the European Parliament are of the opinion that criminal content of this kind must be deleted as quickly as possible.
This report maintains the EU's emphasis on the need for the security and stability of the global Internet, the respect for human rights, freedom of expression, privacy, protection of personal data and the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity.
I voted in favour of the report on Internet governance but I abstained on the paragraph that calls for priority to be given to the protection of intellectual property rights holders by putting them on a par with consumers.
Although I voted in favour of this resolution, I noticed the qualifications made about certain regions, particularly the outermost regions, in terms of access to innovation.
Difficulties related to a lack of critical mass must be taken into account in order to encourage better use of the potential for areas such as research and innovation in these regions.
The unique characteristics of the ORs in terms of geography and climate are particular advantages in terms of the development of specific activities in the areas of biodiversity, marine resources, climate change, renewable energy, water, the environment, natural resources, health and new technologies.
Among these, Parliament expresses a wish for innovation not to be limited to technological aspects, but also to cover administrative, organisational and social innovations.
It also emphasises the development of new innovation indicators that are better adapted to economies increasingly based on knowledge.
Finally, and I think that this is an important point, the report is in favour of improving the effects of synergy between the framework programmes for research and innovation and the Structural Funds.
I voted for the own initiative report by my German colleague, Hermann Winkler, which was drafted following the European Commission's communication entitled 'Reviewing Community innovation policy in a changing world'.
Innovation is the key factor in successfully responding to the major societal and environmental challenges currently faced by the Union and in achieving its strategic political objectives.
Scientific research and innovation are the key to successfully meeting the EU's current grand societal and environmental challenges and realising its strategic political goals in areas including competitiveness, climate change, employment, demographic change and many others.
In order to remain competitive, the EU must invest in sustainable technologies, ensuring that they receive the required funding.
Until now, Europe has lagged far behind in the area of scientific research and innovations, because this area is very fragmented and there are differences between scientific research and innovations and market replication.
I feel that the European Commission's future plan for innovations must resolve the issues of private sector financing of scientific research and innovations, which would allow companies to create innovative products and services and adapt them in the market.
The research that underpins each innovative action and discovery must therefore be supported, particularly when it succeeds in bringing together small and medium-sized enterprises and the world of new technology.
Therefore, it is important that growth and the competitiveness of the economic and social system always remain on a human scale.
At the moment, less than 1% of the European Union's budget goes on innovation.
The European Parliament's request to increase the resources allocated to innovation is absolutely justified in these circumstances.
We are approaching the time for looking at the financial projections for the 2014-2020 period and must take this request into consideration.
Transforming Europe's economy into a sustainable economy must make European companies more competitive and allow new opportunities to emerge for national economies as a result of the economic and ecological challenges facing Europe.
Splitting resources across a host of objectives and a series of specific EU initiatives has not produced satisfactory results so far.
Innovation and research, like education and training, are the key elements that will enable Europe to compete positively in a more technologically competitive world.
However, so far, only 1% of the EU's budget has been earmarked for this sector, a percentage that is not enough to address the difficult challenges that Europe is having to face.
It is time for the European Union to invest more in the field of research and innovation.
It is essential to invest in knowledge and in reforms that promote technological progress, research, innovation, education and training to promote prosperity, growth and employment in the medium and long term.
The struggle against new challenges requires an innovative approach to implementing new technology, along with an innovative approach to social issues at an organisational level.
Intelligent growth based on the knowledge and innovation economy requires concrete measures on the part of supranational and national institutions.
At the same time as asking countries to invest more heavily in research, we should offer them a European regulatory framework that is both general and specific, with common, coordinated development guidelines and instruments for monitoring whether the funding is producing the desired results.
I agree, lastly, on the need to work towards a single patent court system, in order to standardise rights at supranational level.
Innovation has an especially important place in modern society.
A society based on innovation can avert possible crises, both socio-economic and natural.
As Mr Winkler specifies in his report, innovation nowadays must also take into account the social value it brings.
I believe that the innovations of the 21st century must also consider the impact they have on the individual and society in general.
Innovations such as the 'Internet of Things', for example, must take into account and respect the right to privacy and protection for the individual's personal data.
The significance of knowledge and innovation have been gaining prominence as part of the political agenda and in political jargon, and there are few today who dare to question the importance of investment in this field and the need to link up knowledge, innovation, businesses and jobs.
Today, it is universally accepted that innovation is vital for the success and sustainability of economic and social development and the success of European integration.
The importance of innovation, which must always be coupled with research and education, has become even more obvious in the face of the increasingly rapid pace of development in global and human reality.
We agree with several aspects of this report, although the way in which it is formulated does not always focus on the most important issues.
However, the priority which is given to each of the areas included in the so-called Europe 2020 strategy, such as business activity, employment, demographic change and an inclusive society, is such that the document and the analysis of necessary innovation in a changing world falls far short of what is needed to promote real economic and social cohesion, growth in productivity, job creation and wage recovery in the Member States, all of which we believe to be crucial.
In the communication review of EU policy on innovation in a changing world, issued on 2 September 2009, the European Commission outlines the developments that have taken place since 2005 in the field of EU innovation policy.
The report on the challenges facing European Union innovation policy is a very good document which has raised the most important questions related to this issue.
Together with my colleagues from the S&amp;D Group, I endorsed the report, including Amendment 46, which calls on the Commission and Member States to coordinate their efforts to reach agreement on a Community patent and a single patent court system.
This matter has been dragging on for many years, and for many years the same arguments have been repeated in favour of a common patent, along with the same contentious questions (for example, how many languages should European patents be translated into?).
On top of this, however, there is the matter of the patent court system, the establishment of which will require regulation of the relationship between the European Union and the European Patent Organisation in a way which is in accordance with the competences of EU institutions, including the European Parliament.
Without going into details on the patent system, which will, no doubt, be the subject of numerous discussions, I would like to stress that this issue is one of the most important challenges of the current term of the European Parliament.
Therefore, I think that at each step, we should call on the other institutions to start constructive cooperation in this area, which is just what Mr Winkler's report does.
In view of the challenges facing our planet, it is clear that innovation in these fields is of vital importance.
The Scottish Government has instituted a £10 million Saltire Prize aimed at boosting innovation in tide and wave energy and this fits nicely into wider EU efforts to have a suitable policy in a changing world.
As a result of global competition to attract investment, not only certain production plants but also the research and development capacities associated with them are increasingly being relocated to third countries.
According to the Commission, less than 1% of the EU budget is currently spent directly on innovation-related measures.
Given the social challenges that lie ahead, this is insufficient.
This should be reflected in the planning process in connection with the 2014-2020 financial perspective.
In order to make innovation policy more effective, the various support instruments need to be better coordinated and properly linked, with a leaner management structure; in other words, financial support must be better targeted.
There is a need for innovative measures in every area of the economy and social life - from novel therapeutic methods and increasingly rapid means of communication to new ideas in industry and science and alternative methods of obtaining energy.
I would like to point out that apart from the cross-sectoral nature of innovation policy, the initiative of citizens is also important.
While caring for the rapid development of the economy, and this includes care for the environment, we should not forget people and the lack of social equality, because these differences may become greater and could work against measures for development.
It is essential for the economic challenges to be transformed into new opportunities for the national economies.
For this reason, I supported our rapporteur's position, which calls for the forthcoming planning process in connection with the new financial perspective for the period 2014-2020 to include an increase in the EU budget for innovation.
However, innovation requires financial resources which, particularly among businesses, are lacking, and are not easy for businesses, especially the SMEs, to obtain.
At the same time, it is necessary, in view of the fact that the financial crisis has contributed to a freezing of credit for innovative business projects, for Member States to also think seriously about a clear increase in funding for research and development, which will guarantee their competitiveness in the long term and help to save and create jobs.
Research, innovation and education are important factors in a country's competitiveness.
Once again, on the one hand, we need to support rural regions by driving the expansion of the broadband network into these areas while, at the same time, the infrastructure of these regions is being cut back as a result of the privatisation of the rail network, post office, and so on.
While we talk about the importance of universities and research facilities, funding for these institutions is, in fact, being reduced.
As ever, we highlight the importance of SMEs in this context, but it remains to be seen whether this is followed up by any real action.
The strategy for the next ten years (EU 2020) sets as its second basic objective an increase in investments in research and development to 3% of GDP by 2020.
This own initiative report calls on the Commission for specific and ambitious initiatives under the shadow of the failure of the Lisbon Strategy in this specific sector.
It should be noted that spending on R&amp;D in Europe is less than 2%, compared with 2.6% in the USA and 3.4% in Japan, mainly due to low levels of private investment.
That is the logic behind the report by Mr Winkler, which I have endorsed.
The share of the European budget that is devoted to innovation must be substantially increased, and I hope that the next financial perspective for 2014-2020 will be along those lines.
The Member States must also intensify their efforts to achieve the Barcelona objective as quickly as possible by devoting at least 3% of their GDP to research and development.
In order to be effective, innovation policy absolutely must be conceived in a comprehensive, coherent manner, and with a view to the long term.
In this respect, I welcome the creation of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, which will help boost relations between these two worlds.
The elimination of poverty is the main objective set by the Treaty of Lisbon for EU cooperation and development policies, and given that this is a moral duty whose long-term usefulness for EU interests is vital, I believe that prioritising this objective within our foreign policy is crucial.
I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for this document and take this opportunity to voice my support for this project.
Some four million die in five countries alone: India, Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Pakistan and China.
Above all, therefore, we need the political determination to take action to save many human lives, to stop this silent slaughter of innocent children whose only crime is to have been born in a poor country.
However, the negative consequences of the economic and financial recession have slowed the progress of developing and the least developed countries even more.
Therefore, the EU Member States should make an exceptional effort to ensure that concrete development aid measures are established as soon as possible covering the areas of trade, development cooperation and the common agricultural policy.
We must also strive to facilitate the integration of developing countries into the global economy and stimulate the development of trade in these countries.
The Commission should ensure effective administration of aid measures for developing and the least developed countries and transparency and efficiency in the distribution of financial aid.
The EU has an immense responsibility in that it is the primary source of aid to poor countries and, in this respect, it is listened to on the international stage when it comes to questions of development.
The Cashman report makes a very fair assessment of the state of the Millennium Development Goals, with the emphasis being on extreme poverty, the situation of women, health, education and the environment.
This report reminds us that the European Union has to make sure that there is consistency in development policies.
The report drafted during the Millennium Summit in 2000 is more relevant than ever.
I voted for this report because achieving the Millennium Development Goals must remain a key objective for the European Union.
Achieving the MDGs, against all the odds, is a very important challenge and an urgent one both at EU and international level.
The EU and international community should focus their efforts and take concrete action to enhance the chances of MDG success.
I would like to point out that poverty reduction through the achievement of the MDGs must be recognised as the overall goal of EU policy and Europe must lead the world in a concerted effort to keep the EU's promises to the planet's poorest.
I welcome the role that Europe has played as the largest provider of development aid in the world.
Development aid has helped to alleviate poverty for millions of people in the developing world.
The number of people having to endure extreme poverty has fallen from 1.8 billion to 1.4 billion.
Great steps have been made in combating malaria and tuberculosis, and the infant mortality rate is falling dramatically.
The rich countries are responsible for the current financial, economic and climate crises, but the developing countries are the most affected by global warming.
This means that it is vital for us to step up all our measures for combating climate change, such as providing appropriate technology.
in writing. - I voted against this report due to the controversial wording of paragraph 42 concerning abortion.
In every document in which measures to combat poverty, hunger and violence in the world are admirably proposed, some manage to include the declaration, whether direct or indirect, of the so-called right to abortion as a vehicle for the health and development of populations.
Achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is a priority in development policy.
Only a few months from the high-level UN meeting, despite significant progress having been made on some of the MDGs, the truth is that we are a long way from what we had hoped.
More needs to be done.
Above all, it is crucial to bring about consistency in development policies (along the route of the resolution approved in May this year on consistency in EU development policies and the concept of greater public development aid).
I welcome the fact that Parliament has set the priority goals for the MDGs as health, education, the most vulnerable groups in society and the eradication of poverty through concrete measures in business, agriculture and fisheries policies.
They have also done this with the call for a new global governance that gives greater voice to developing countries and which promotes democracy, peace, and the rule of law in developing countries.
For that reason, I voted against this report, although obviously without doubting the goodwill behind their objectives. 'Imagine there's no countries, it isn't hard to do, nothing to kill or die for, and no religion too.
It is up to us, however, to make the world a fairer and safer place where everyone can live with a modicum of dignity.
in writing. - I strongly support this report on progress towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
The EU is 20 billion euro short of its funding commitments, at a time when states are cutting back their aid budgets.
The EU Member States must not falter when it comes to fulfilling their commitments in the framework of the European Consensus on Development.
Member States must commit 0.7% of GNI to aid by 2015, as promised, rather than decrease that share, which is doubly alarming in times of crisis, as GNI itself diminishes.
Besides, it is not acceptable for the EU to broaden the definition of Official Development Aid to include other financial flows such as remittances or debt cancellation measures.
The Heads of State or Government of the EU must stick to their financial commitments, including - perhaps even more than ever - in this period of global economic and financial crisis.
In order to catch up with respect to its financial commitments, Europe must create new mechanisms of financing, such as a tax of 0.05% on financial transactions.
Given how much these transactions currently amount to - recently, this was 70 times the global GNP - such a tax could free up EUR 10 billion per year.
A unilateral EU initiative could act as a catalyst at a global level.
I welcome the vote on the Cashman report on progress towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals: mid-term review in preparation of the UN high-level meeting in September 2010.
The situation is critical and requires urgent action.
There must be renewed efforts to write off the debts of the least developed countries and to embark on a course that will reduce the burden of debt on developing countries.
Financing of the MDGs must begin at national level, and developing countries must generate and allocate own resources to achieve those goals, but the donor community must keep its promise to substantially increase its ODA.
Europe is the world's leading donor but, with 0.4% of GNI, it cannot be content with falling so far short of the target of devoting 0.56% to official development assistance (ODA) in 2010, a target that it set itself.
With the Cashman report, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament is calling for the European Council of 17 June to endorse the proposal for a 0.05% tax on international financial transactions, which would yield EUR 10 billion, and to set itself the target of achieving 0.63% of European GNI in 2012, with a view to increasing it to 0.7%.
As shadow rapporteur on this report, I voted firmly in favour of this report whose objective is to ensure that the Millennium Development Goals are successfully achieved.
Therefore, I voted against the calls for the EU unilaterally to introduce a tax on currency and derivatives transactions in order to fund global public goods, including the MDGs.
It is important for the Member States to fulfil their obligations to increase the amount of Official Development Aid (ODA), but the European Union should not legally penalise its Member States because of a partial failure to fulfil obligations in the changed context of the financial crisis.
Not all Member States were affected by the crisis in the same way and not all will be able to achieve the goal of 0.7%.
The European Parliament should encourage them with softer and more acceptable means than strict legal measures.
It is alarming that so many Members of this House voted against giving women in developing countries the right to control their own bodies and reproductive health by attempting to have paragraph 42 of the report deleted.
This is an indication of a very disturbing trend among opponents of abortion in Europe who are using the aid programme to make their views public.
The availability of family planning is an important factor in enabling women in developing countries to take control over their own lives and, as a result, to lift themselves out of poverty.
I voted in favour of the Cashman report because there is still a long way to go before we can achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
It is necessary to strengthen existing measures so that they can be achieved by 2015, particularly through the implementation of the responsibilities assumed by the Member States on aid to developing countries.
Eradicating poverty and reducing the gap between rich and poor are important objectives, and all governments should give attention and allocate resources to them.
Despite all the efforts made by the developing countries, many of which are facing crises that may jeopardise their commitment, responsibility lies with the states benefiting from the aid if they are to assume their responsibility for good governance, rule of law and essential civil liberties.
I cannot help but be disappointed that under the guise of his stated good intentions, the rapporteur is seeking to have this House adopt a resolution which, in blatant violation of the powers of the Member States and third states in these matters, advocates the promotion of abortion as a means to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The international community has made a fundamental commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
Europe is the largest provider of aid in the world.
Europe, as a champion of fundamental human rights, with solidarity as its basic principle, and as the world's largest contributor of development aid, must take a leading role in this matter, particularly at the next UN debriefing, which is to take place in September.
I therefore voted against this report.
The report acknowledges that we are a long way from achieving these goals, which in themselves were limited.
Trade liberalisation exacerbates inequality, creating greater exploitation of workers and natural resources, more poverty and more social exclusion, and it increases dependency relationships between countries.
Sacrificing development aid to these objectives, as the EU and the USA have done, means that the Millennium Goals will not be achieved by 2015.
The Member States have an important responsibility and must stick to their commitments here; we need to remind them of this again.
Even though the progress made up to now is encouraging, especially the increased school attendance of poor children or the fight against malaria and tuberculosis, considerable effort still needs to be made so that everyone's commitments between now and 2015 can be honoured, and this is despite the current context of the crisis.
I also support the introduction of a tax on currency transactions and transactions in derivatives, as well as the reduction of the burden of debt on developing countries and the cancellation of the debt burden of the least advanced countries.
Finally, I also voted in favour of several amendments that aim to develop measures in the field of sexual and reproductive health, because they are essential in the fight against AIDS and the reduction of maternal mortality.
in writing. - The Cashman report makes important calls for the EU and its Member States to implement a number of policies in the field of international development and I wholeheartedly endorse these calls.
It should also be added that action can be taken other than at the EU or Member State level.
Scotland, for example has a distinctive contribution to make in its work with developing countries and the Scottish Government has also published an International Development Policy aimed at contributing towards Millennium Development Goals.
I would like to refer to point 14 in the report on the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, which calls on the EU to provide significant funding to try and help poor nations fight the effects of climate change and, moreover, insists that these funds be additional to existing development aid commitments.
It would seem that climate change is cannibalising all the other problems in our imaginations.
We need to make sure that we do not prevent hundreds of millions of children from receiving vaccinations and education or jeopardise the fight against erosion or other solvable environmental problems all in the name of climate change.
Reducing poverty has been one of the main aims of development policy since time immemorial.
Little has been achieved in recent decades, however; rather, development policy initiatives have often moved in the opposite direction.
Even programmes to combat famine have apparently merely allowed explosive growth in population numbers.
I think it is important to remove from point 22 the statement calling on the EU to put an end to agricultural export subsidies.
However, I abstained from the final vote because I believe that this report must be rooted more in reality and be more pragmatic and less ideological.
The sooner the EU overcomes the consequences of the crisis, the quicker it will be able to put in place long-term and sustainable development aid.
The report on the Millennium Development Goals fails to give this sufficient consideration, which is why I have voted against it.
In view of the obligations of EU Member States and the need for compliance with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, I decided to endorse the report on progress towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals: mid-term review in preparation of the UN high-level meeting in September 2010.
in writing. - I am glad we adopted today the Cashman report on the MDG.
In September 2010, all United Nations Member States will come together in New York to discuss the progress made towards the MDGs and agree on actions to be taken to ensure that the goals are met.
The endorsement of this report by an overwhelming majority of MEPs sends a clear and cross-party political message to the EU Heads of State or Government, before they meet on 17 June in Brussels, that the EU should remain strong and fully committed to the achievement of the MDGs, especially at a time of financial crisis.
Development depends first and foremost on respect for life.
It is gradually becoming clear that greater efforts are needed if the world wants to attain the Millennium Development Goals.
A more coherent development policy is also required.
The agricultural subsidies we give to European farmers mean that farmers in developing countries cannot obtain a good price for their products.
I am a long-standing advocate of a country-by-country reporting system to enable developing countries to keep their own resources for their own development.
The objective presented in the Millennium Development Goal programme is very noble and I think that we must make every effort to achieve it.
As far as possible, we need to achieve better results with relatively few resources and that is not always possible to achieve in far off countries.
The fight against corruption and aid for the poorest - that is our moral duty and a long-term interest of the EU.
There has been a rise in the number of people who are underemployed or whose jobs are insecure and therefore, it is important for us to direct all of our efforts towards protecting, above all, the interests of the most vulnerable groups.
I therefore voted against this proposal.
