The Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party in Qinghai province, Qiang Wei, said in a press article that standard Mandarin will be the main language of instruction in primary schools by 2015.
It should be remembered that the rights that the Tibetans are fighting for derive from Article 4 of the Chinese constitution and Article 10 of the Regional National Autonomy Law.
Madam President, Article 4 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China guarantees all citizens and nationalities the right to use and develop their own spoken and written language.
On 27 October, I received a petition in front of the European Parliament building in Brussels from Tibetan schoolchildren seeking our solidarity.
Today's debate on the attempts by the government of the People's Republic of China to introduce Chinese as the only mandatory language in the teaching system in Tibet is an attack on the culture of that nation.
If I have understood correctly, the reason is that he believes that we must heed what the Chinese Embassy says rather than what our own convictions tell us. (DE) (The speaker is answering a blue card question from Cristian Dan Preda in accordance with Rule 149(8)).
I trust that China will consistently apply Article 4 of the constitution of the People's Republic of China, and Article 10 of the Act on Autonomous National Regions, which guarantee the freedom of all nations to use and develop their own spoken and written languages.
I believe that steps should be taken that will allow the observance of the fundamental rights of the Tibetans in China to be more effectively monitored. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the abrogation of the bilingual system in Tibet is an illiberal act that runs counter to respect for the cultural identity of a minority and respect for human rights.
The overall situation in Tibet is one of those where we differ.
The European Parliament has, for many years, demonstrated its support for and solidarity with Tibet, a country that has always struggled against the oppressive and discriminatory policies of the Chinese authorities, which have threatened the territorial and cultural independence of the Tibetan people for years.
