Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (PL) Thank you very much, Madam President.
In recent years, the European Union economy has often suffered because of crises and financial instability both at local and global levels.
The Instrument for Stability fills this role very well.
Financial and technical support should also include the promotion of human and economic development as well as consultations in the event of the violation of human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms.
While Parliament receives information from the Commission on exceptional assistance measures, the Commission's reporting on broader strategic and analytical terms is still falling short of Parliament's expectations. (PL) The instrument for development cooperation contributes directly to the spread of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in partner countries and regions.
It provides support, not only for lasting social, economic and political development, but also for gradual integration of these countries with the world economy.
We should not forget that food security is of enormous importance to developing countries. - Mr President, I was delighted to vote in favour of this report.
The improvement of their representation and participation in the system may be of fundamental importance in the future.
The unifying nature of European standardisation improves the efficiency of the internal market, and, at the same time, emphasises the European Union's role as an economic and political partner on the world market. (ET) I would like to speak about Mrs Muscardini's report.
So instead of an actual labelling of the specific country, we may find fake 'made in Italy', 'made in France' labelling, and we do not want that. (LT) I voted for the motion for a resolution on Moldova.
Today once again I would like to call on the whole of Moldova's political class, its political elite, all of its democratic political forces and national minorities to reject counterproductive confrontation, and to develop a culture of consensus and political compromise.
I think they should offer society an inclusive vision of the Republic of Moldova, whose objective is European Union Membership for the Republic of Moldova.
We must adapt the seas and their resources and coordinate actions, therefore the integrated maritime policy is important as all areas of maritime policy will be linked: maritime transport, fishing, aquaculture, energy, safety at sea, protection of the maritime environment and scientific research as well as tourism.
In particular I would like to draw attention to the economic and social importance simply because the European Union has 320 000 km of sea coast and a third of our citizens - and the trend is rising - live on the coast.
I believe that the seas should continue to be the driving force of economic growth. (SK) The European Union represents the biggest source of direct international investment in Latin America.
Even though trade between these two regions has intensified, mutual trading between the EU and Latin America is less dynamic compared to trade relations with other regions of the world.
This opens up a market of nearly 600 million consumers to the European Union entrepreneur.
All of our Member States are looking to make reductions in their national budgets and yet the European Union budget keeps expanding, soaking up their savings.
However, the refuge of parliamentarianism, Mr Hannan, is here in Strasbourg.
I hope the European Commission will soon finish its social consultations and present satisfactory proposals on paternity leave and adoption leave and also on the self-employed, so that all young mothers in Europe will have the same entitlement. (LT) I doubt if anyone would argue that the bond between a child and its parents in the first months of life is especially important, thus the new European Union directive will ensure mothers' right and opportunity to take care of their children for longer without fear of losing income or their job.
The situation varies across the different Member States.
For instance in my country Lithuania maternity leave plus parental leave last up to two years, but other Member States have a minimum amount of maternity leave, therefore I believe that the threshold we set yesterday is a very important achievement.
After this vote the media called and asked me a number of times whether I had voted for or against.
I voted for maternity leave to last 18 weeks and for women to receive 75% of their pay.
I think that we have a good system in my country, Finland.
I nevertheless voted in favour of maternity leave lasting 20 weeks.
I was thinking about the issue from the perspective of the other Member States of the European Union.
I believe that longer periods of maternity leave are important for children's development.
This was a moral decision in favour of women, in favour of new life, and in favour of a new Europe. (DE) Mr President, the Estrela report yesterday covered a very important topic.
I would like to say at this point that it was rather difficult for me to vote in favour of it.
It is difficult point.
Nevertheless, it is important for young women to have the opportunity to have a child and then to return to their professional life.
We must now ask ourselves whether this will bring more justice and more children in Europe.
Family policy in Europe is an issue for the future.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour of this report amending the Regulation establishing an Instrument for Stability because I consider a broader revision of the EU's external financial assistance to be essential.
The implementation of the Instrument for Stability reinforced the EU's potential to respond to crisis or emerging crisis situations.
A text that calls on the EU to pay greater attention to civil society within the context of stability funding for crisis situations outside the EU, even though I believe that the European institutions, especially the Commission, should be vigilant in ensuring something that does not always happen, namely that the recipients give an undertaking that they are politically 'trustworthy'.
Our Parliament, which represents the European nations and citizens, must play a more active role in these matters, and the other European institutions must get used to the idea that a parliament must be informed of the spending decisions made by an executive: at stake is the effectiveness not only of individual actions, but of the democratic nature of the European political system as a whole.
The European continent has been shaped by long and bloody conflicts, which have finally been stemmed by, among others, the institutions in which we work.
It is not a question of taking a stand a priori, but of adopting a consistent and rigorous approach in which military capacity is merely a deterrent and will never become a vehicle for radically changing the nature of the European Union or promoting a system of values other than the one upheld.
These figures are a good demonstration of the importance of European development assistance and, naturally, of the significance of the Instrument for Stability.
Nevertheless, I cannot fail to stress that, while I consider it absolutely crucial that the EU remains committed to its foreign development-cooperation and humanitarian-aid missions, I cannot understand how it is possible that aid for third countries can be released more quickly than that for Member States that are the victims of disasters as has, unfortunately, been the case with Madeira: several months after the tragedy, it has still not received any aid from the Solidarity Fund.
In terms of development, the EU's objectives should be the fight against poverty and its causes.
in writing. - (ES) My vote against this legislative resolution is based on my outright rejection of the Instrument for Stability established several years ago without the support of my parliamentary group.
I therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - Conflicts in Haiti, Kosovo, Iraq, and more recently in Afghanistan have shed light on the crucial role that small arms and light weapons play in terrorism and organized crime, and in igniting new rounds of bloodshed after formal cease-fire.
It is important that the Community adopts a truly comprehensive approach to the problem of SALW proliferation by targeting all levels of the illicit SALW trade chain.
Given that 70% of global SALW stockpile is in civilian hands, EU should recognize and support the indispensible efforts of civil society in monitoring SALW trade and production at the local level and in raising public awareness.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that EU should strive to hone its ability to manage crisis in the most innovative, efficient and cost-effective manner.
in writing. - With this vote, Parliament has followed AFET's position in welcoming the Commission's proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1717/2006 establishing an Instrument for Stability, as part of a wider review of the external financial assistance of the EU.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on the financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI) because I believe that Parliament has closely monitored the way in which the DCI's provisions have been implemented since it came into force in 2007.
I believe that this amendment will make it possible for these costs to be financed in exceptional circumstances, thus creating greater flexibility in the implementation of programmes and projects.
I abstained in the final vote on the financing instrument for development cooperation, because the money has been used, directly or indirectly, to arm and train the police and the military in various areas of Africa.
The authorising officer can, if appropriate, decide to fund these costs to ensure the smooth running of the programmes and projects.
The financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI) improves the European Union's previous development cooperation framework by combining the various geographical and thematic instruments into a single instrument.
The amendment in question is merely technical and is aimed at allowing costs related to taxes, duties and other charges to be financed from Union aid in exceptional circumstances.
In terms of development, the EU's objectives should be the fight against poverty and its causes.
As a whole, all five European Parliament reports on the financing instruments address the need to ensure greater control over the financing instruments for development cooperation, for the promotion of democracy and human rights and for cooperation with industrialised nations.
In view of the excessive bureaucracy and not always rational use of the opportunities open to the EU, this type of resolution could serve as a catalyst and speed up the processes described in the reports.
By adopting these procedures the European Parliament will assume a more important role with regard to the strategic financing decisions that the European Commission will have to make, and the rules for implementing EU development policy will be more clearly defined.
I voted in favour of the report on the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (ICI Regulation) which aims to support economic, financial and technical cooperation, as well as research and academic exchange falling within the Community's spheres of competence.
I believe that the changes proposed by the Commission are substantial, since all the current references to partner countries (which, so far only covered the industrialised and other high-income countries and territories), including their qualitative assessment, must also begin to include the developing countries listed.
I am voting in favour of the set of proposals presented in this report.
The EIDHR, as a financial instrument that aims to promote the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, as well as contributing to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in third countries, is an important channel for the Union's aid in terms of rights, freedoms and guarantees.
I believe that the European Union should continue to play a central role in defending and promoting democracy and human rights, not just in its discourse but above all in its political practice; it is absolutely necessary, and even urgent, to do this in a way that is coordinated with the United States.
I refer specifically to the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI) and the Regulation establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide (EIDHR).
Technical amendments have been tabled in order to allow the costs of taxes and charges relating to the financing of common actions in these fields to be financed from the budget for the two instruments.
In terms of development, the EU's objectives should be the fight against poverty and its causes.
In the specific case of this instrument, this legislative proposal is aimed solely at a technical amendment that will make this instrument more flexible when implementing programmes and projects.
in writing. - (ES) I voted against this report because, although it seeks to give Parliament greater democratic control over the 'instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide', the instrument itself, whether or not it is controlled by Parliament, is a means for the EU to interfere in the internal affairs of third countries.
My vote against is based on my outright rejection of this instrument, which, four years after its adoption and as we said at the time, has become a tool for the covert defence of EU interests in third countries, disguising that defence under the discretionary mantle of human rights and democracy.
in writing. - In its legislative proposal for the mid-term review of the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI) and the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR), the Commission only proposes one technical amendment allowing costs related to taxes, duties and other charges related to the financing of actions under the DCI and EIDHR in beneficiary countries, to be financed from the budget of the instruments.
The amendment will allow for the financing of these costs in exceptional circumstances, thus creating greater flexibility in the implementation of programmes and projects.
I voted in favour of the report on the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (ICI Regulation) which aims to support economic, financial and technical cooperation, as well as research and academic exchange falling within the Community's spheres of competence, because I believe that the changes proposed by the Commission are substantial, since all the current references to partner countries (which, so far only covered the industrialised and other high-income countries and territories), including their qualitative assessment, must also begin to include the listed developing countries.
Parliament must be more involved in drafting and revising the multiannual cooperation programmes, as well as be able to lodge objections against proposals of this kind.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution as I believe that it is in the interests of the Union to further deepen its relations with developing countries, in particular in areas such as economic, commercial, academic, business and scientific exchanges.
The Union therefore needs a financial instrument that allows for the financing of such measures.
On the other hand, extending the geographical scope of Regulation (EC) No 1934/2006 brings the developing countries concerned within the scope of two different external action financial instruments.
I would particularly recall two countries with which Portugal has strong historical and emotional ties: Brazil and Angola, two important global players in South America and Africa, respectively, that the EU should increasingly view as partners.
That often excludes other types of action that do not come under the umbrella of PDA but that are, even so, essential to the Union's foreign policy.
The financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries and territories is a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories.
It aims to support economic, financial and technical cooperation, as well as academic and research exchanges.
in writing. - (DE) The bilateral relationships between the industrialised nations and other high-income countries and territories, in particular in North America, East Asia, South-East Asia and the Gulf region, have been developed by the EU in recent years.
The main objective of this is to enhance and strengthen the role of the EU in the world as a whole.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution as I believe that it is in the interests of the Union to further deepen its relations with developing countries, in particular in areas such as economic, commercial, academic, business and scientific exchanges.
The Union therefore needs a financial instrument that allows for the financing of such measures.
On the other hand, extending the geographical scope of Regulation (EC) No 1934/2006 brings the developing countries concerned within the scope of two different external action financial instruments.
Even though the changes proposed by the Commission may seem few in formal terms, they are substantial as all current references to partner countries (so far covering only industrialised and high-income countries and territories), including their qualitative assessment, would include also the listed developing countries.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament's resolution.
However, I believe that the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, by drastically reducing the margin of heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013, does not leave sufficient room for manoeuvre to face and to react appropriately to a potential upcoming crisis.
They resolve the problem raised by the Commission's proposal to introduce an identical amendment for both Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 (DCI) and Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 (EIDHR), which come under the remit of two different European Parliament committees - the Committee on Development for the DCI and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the EIDHR - by splitting the proposal into two different legislative proposals which we are due to approve today.
in writing. - (RO) I agree with the measures being proposed, which can be integrated at an earlier stage in the multiannual financial framework, as the problem to do with the trade in bananas is still going on.
I am voting in favour of the proposals contained in this report in general.
I believe that the role of the European Parliament is eminently political with regard to the Commission's proposal to create a programme of accompanying measures for Africa-Caribbean-Pacific (ACP) banana-producing countries.
In a broad sense, these accompanying measures for the banana sector should have a positive impact, not only for the producers, the first link in the production chain, but also with regard to the criteria for the fight against poverty.
Economic, financial and technical cooperation, as well as exchanges at the academic and research level, between the Union and third countries constitute one of the priorities for European foreign policy: efforts in this area must be supported.
This expansion requires additional financing and, at the same time, for resources to be made available in a way that is even more discriminating and rigorous, at the risk of dispersing funds that could be mobilised for cooperation projects that are effective and fruitful.
The reasons justifying our abstention on this vote are the same as those justifying it in the vote on the report on the budgetary review to establish financial assistance for countries of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States (ACP) that will be affected by the liberalisation of the banana trade between the EU and 11 Latin American countries.
As for the ACP countries, as several of their representatives have already stated, including some local producers, there is no chance that the sum of EUR 200 million that the EU is proposing to allocate to them will compensate them for all the effects resulting from these measures.
Firstly, I regret that this financing instrument has a budget of EUR 190 million, when the ACP countries have estimated that they need a minimum of EUR 500 million to enable them to restructure the sector and become competitive.
I did not wish to vote against this report, either, because the ACP countries and Europe's banana-producing regions urgently need assistance to cope with the consequences that have already made themselves felt following the Geneva Agreements and other bilateral agreements that have brought the customs duties on Latin American bananas down from EUR 185 to EUR 74 a tonne.
When development is the issue, the EU's objectives must be to fight poverty and its causes.
in writing. - (DE) It is important and right to support the poorest countries by providing them with targeted and sustainable development aid.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
I voted in favour of the resolution of the European Parliament, despite the fact that the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, by drastically reducing the margin under heading 4 in the 2007-2013 Multiannual Financial Framework, does not leave sufficient room for manoeuvre to face and react appropriately to a potential future crisis.
in writing. - The aim of the Commission proposal is to support the main banana-exporting countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific (ACP) via banana accompanying measures (BAMs), which are intended to last four years (2010-2013).
Our fellow citizens must be better informed about country of origin marking and must be able to make purchases in full knowledge of the facts.
The standardisation of origin marking practices in the Union, particularly for agricultural products that come from Israel and the Palestinian territories, is directed to this end.
I believe that the European Union should take a step forward in guaranteeing greater protection for European consumers.
By voting in favour of the report on country-of-origin markings on certain products from countries outside the EU, Parliament is responding to the expectations of consumers for improved transparency in products.
This proposal for a regulation will allow European businesses to promote their know-how, traditional methods of production and the high quality of their work.
I voted for the report on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries, because I consider it important to inform consumers accurately so that they can exercise freedom of choice.
European consumers have the right to know where the products that they buy come from, so that they can make informed choices.
This has been one of the standards to which European consumers have become accustomed and to which European producers have adapted.
Therefore, for the sake of transparency and of protecting consumers, but also of protecting European producers, it is essential for goods imported from third countries to be correctly identified as such, noting their origin.
I would even go further: if Europe is so restrictive in the rules that it imposes on its producers, it should only allow products that comply with these same rules to be imported; the rules for livestock rearing are a good example of this.
Our vote in favour of indicating the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries is linked to the need to make clearer the route that products have taken prior to reaching EU countries.
The establishment of more equitable and fairer economic relationships is needed.
in writing. - (DE) Without a doubt, European consumers have a right to be informed about products imported into the EU from third countries.
I am in general in favour of a project that aims to inform EU citizens of the origin of the raw materials used, the stages of production, but also the production, social and working conditions prevalent in the country in question.
in writing. - (NL) The Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) in the European Parliament today backed the line of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe on origin marking, with the exception of Amendment 37 on pharmaceutical products.
It is also a way of developing trade relations and traditional economies more satisfactorily.
On the other hand, we have referred to the need to have clear legislation with definite rules that can at last protect our producers and our consumers, as happens in the rest of the world.
At the same time, Europe is bringing its legislation into line with that of its most influential trade partners.
The aim is to create a level playing field between European producers and producers from third countries (the United States, Japan and Canada), which, moreover, as stated just now, lead the way where these kinds of measures are concerned.
I voted in favour of the report.
The introduction of a European marking system for manufactured goods imported from third countries must enable consumers to know exactly which country the goods they buy come from.
European consumers have a right, in fact, to know the origin of the goods they buy and hence to enjoy the same rights as the citizens of other countries.
I believe that these rules could also help increase the volume of exports from developing countries, since many European consumers are anxious to protect these countries' craft businesses and small businesses in the face of the multinationals.
In principle, more accurate labelling is a good thing, but this report is apparently not in a position to guarantee that label fraud can be totally prevented.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because I believe that consumers must know the manufacturer of goods they have chosen.
As stated in the document adopted, information guarantees safety, and consumer safety and informing consumers must be underlying principles.
An indication of the country of origin is also necessary to make it possible to protect small manufacturers, who are often crushed by large companies imitating original articles.
These are not protectionist measures but, instead, provisions to safeguard the health and freedom of our consumers, as well as the EU's strategic production sectors.
The regulation brings our legislation into line with that of our important trading partners, such as the United States, Canada, China and Australia.
European citizens have the right to know the origin of the goods they buy in the same way as other consumers throughout the world.
I voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the European Parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries, as I believe that consumers have the right to know where products they purchase come from so that they have information with which to make their choice.
This measure is even more necessary in today's globalised world, as foreign trade is increasingly breaking down borders.
This may also be an important step for progressing with more detailed labelling of various products in order to not only guarantee consumers' rights more fully, but also to ensure reciprocity in production requirements imposed on EU and non-EU producers.
in writing. - The legislative resolution passed with a surprisingly wide majority of 525 in favour, 49 against, and 44 abstentions.
The rules stipulating that the origin of a product must be indicated are completely in line with what the United States, Canada, Japan and India are already doing and with the full implementation of the rules on transparency and consumer protection, which are cited in many directives that have already been approved.
However, gold products exported from the EU to China have a 30% tax levied on them.
I voted in favour on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries.
With this vote I wished to emphasise the European Parliament's commitment to promoting European industry, the competitiveness of which must today be safeguarded and supported.
However, I do not believe that excluding specialised and recognised production sectors with a long history and tradition, such as the optical industry, is in keeping with EU policy.
We have detailed legislation on the marking of goods produced in the European Union.
We give our consumers, both within the EU and outside it, information on the place of origin of these products.
This practice is already followed in many of the large third countries which are our largest trading partners.
It is important that the consumers and producers of our main trading partners be subject to the same legislation as our consumers and producers.
Commercial policy can harmonise closely with development policy.
Product marking can contribute to a growth in exports from developing countries.
European consumers are sensitive to the need for aid to less industrialised countries, and their knowledge of the origin of a particular product can enable them to contribute to the development of poorer countries.
Marking makes choosing easier for consumers, who often associate the geographical origin of a particular product with its market value.
European standards are a guarantee of respect for the environment and the health and safety of consumers, and this affects the competitiveness of our products.
I voted for this report because, although national standards bodies provide the backbone of the European standardisation system, there are significant differences among them in terms of resources, technical expertise and stakeholder involvement.
These inequalities create a significant imbalance in their participation in the European standardisation system.
This report puts forward a number of proposals for improving the system within its current restrictions, based on its strong points.
The own-initiative report that we have voted on today is a fine summary of the various political points of view and contains a number of proposals for improving the standardisation system.
From an economic and political point of view, the association of European legislation and standardisation has proved decisive for the free movement of goods and has helped eliminate barriers to free trade within the European single market, through the harmonisation of technical standards.
The current system works quite well, but it is in need of some improvements, especially where governance is concerned.
in writing. - (RO) I think that a strategic approach needs to be developed to European standardisation and a review carried out of the current system so that it remains successful and meets the needs of the next decade, thereby allowing Europe to maintain a leading role in the global standardisation system.
I gave my full support to the report on the future of European standardisation since I am aware of its importance in helping to create a level playing field for all market operators.
It is precisely for this reason that we are today sending a message to the Commission that is not aimed at the complete overhaul of the system - it does not require radical changes - but that demonstrates our intention to see it maintain its numerous positive elements, with new ones alongside them, in order to strike the right balance between the European, national and international dimensions.
To conclude, I believe that a first important step has been taken today to highlight the need for specific action to make European standardisation fulfil the economic needs of EU citizens.
in writing. - I welcome this report and the Commission's intention to review the European standardisation system; I hope they pave the way to a modern, integrated standardisation policy.
The current system has successful elements but it also contains flaws: surely it cannot be right that the outdated, 13-year-old European Standard EN1384 (Helmets for Equestrian Activities) is still in use today despite concerns before its publication and 2 subsequent upgrade mandates from the Commission.
The European standardisation system has been fundamental in achieving a single market.
For this reason, I have voted against the report.
I therefore voted against the report.
I voted in favour of the Kožušník report.
The report contains many sound proposals and guidelines for the European Commission and provides a fine summary of the various points of view.
There is no need to radically change the current system, which works well, but some improvements could be made, especially where 'governance' is concerned.
I believe that the standardisation system must remain private and voluntary and must be based on the principle of national-level management, but I also believe that the public interest must play a more active role in the process, through real, effective participation.
The standardisation process plays an important role in ensuring the quality of public or private products and services, as well as in respect for safety, environmental and social-responsibility standards.
The report promotes the sharing of information about the new regulations and also encourages the dissemination of these processes on information websites that are clear, simple, easy to use and in all the official languages of the European Union.
in writing. - The purpose of this report is to contribute to the ongoing debate on the review of the European standardisation system.
These experts have been brought together in the Expert Panel for the Review of the European Standardisation System (EXPRESS), which delivered its recommendations in February 2010 in the form of a report entitled 'Standardisation for a competitive and innovative Europe: a vision for 2020'.
The Commission has also undertaken a public consultation on the review of the European standardisation system (held from 23 March to 21 May 2010) and commissioned an Impact Assessment Study (9 March 2010).
I am in favour of the report since it aims to review the European standardisation system in order to strike the right balance between the European and national dimensions.
in writing. - (LV) The European Union must continue an active dialogue with Ukraine concerning its accession to our Union, although we appreciate that it will not become a Member State in the next few years.
We understand that it will not be easy to achieve this, for that country must stabilise its financial situation and carry out numerous reforms.
However, this must be done and the EU should offer its support to this work.
Geographically, Ukraine is situated in a very important location, which is also important for gas supply to the EU.
I voted for this motion for a resolution because I welcome the progress which the European Union has made during the last year in relation to the Republic of Moldova.
The EUR 90 million granted to this country in macro-financial assistance was and still is the lifeline which Moldova and its citizens needed to make progress and, in particular, to meet the commitments it has made in the area of reforms, the rule of law and the fight against corruption.
The motion for a resolution on the reforms and progress in the Republic of Moldova provides a spur of encouragement at the right time to the political establishment and inhabitants on the other side of the River Prut, with the approaching ballot on 28 November.
Indeed, the Transnistria problem is of paramount importance to the stability of the Republic of Moldova and the whole region, with the EU having a major role to play in implementing a negotiated, lasting solution.
During the last year, the Republic of Moldova has demonstrated genuine political will as part of the process of rapprochement with the European Union.
Indeed, the European Union must play an active role in supporting this dynamic development.
In this context, I voted for this motion for a resolution as I believe that it is important for the European Parliament and the European Union in general to send a message of confidence to the Republic of Moldova in the run-up to the parliamentary elections.
I must also highlight the start of negotiations on the association agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova on 12 January 2010, and I underscore the good results the Commission is having with the Republic of Moldova in this process.
I voted for this joint resolution because, given that there are elections scheduled for 28 November 2010 and considering the sectarian attempts of the parties on the right to promote the banning of the names and symbols of their main rivals on the left, it is important to stress the need for the elections to go ahead and comply strictly with international standards, giving all political parties equal opportunities.
I also think it is important to reiterate support for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova, and stress the role that the EU could and should play in helping to find a solution for the Transnistria problem.
The vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is essentially due to the prompt request for the Transnistrian issue to be resolved, since this is a crucial factor in promoting political stability and economic prosperity in the Republic of Moldova and the region.
In general, the resolution correctly analyses the steps the Republic of Moldova must take to come closer to achieving in a more decisive and credible way the objectives set for any potential Member State by the European Union.
The efforts indicated here have been consistent and have shown that Moldova is intent on staying on its path towards possible EU enlargement.
If the Moldovan Government wants integration with the European Union, it must begin a dialogue with the Transnistrian Government, in order to prove to the international community that it has legitimacy over the whole territory of Moldova.
It is intended to bring about a significant improvement in the joint institutional framework of the EU and the Republic of Moldova, to allow closer relationships to develop in all areas and to strengthen the political association and the economic integration, while introducing mutual rights and duties.
in writing. - (DE) The aim of the motion for a resolution is visa liberalisation for the Republic of Moldova.
I therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - (LT) Moldova is one of those neighbours that is succeeding in drawing closer to the European Union.
The country is floundering in the economic crisis.
The parliamentary elections on 28 November will be a big test for Moldova.
in writing. - With this resolution, the EP welcomes the progress made during the last year by the Republic of Moldova and hopes that the electoral process can further consolidate the democratic institutions and respect for the rule of law and for human rights in Moldova; expects the Moldovan authorities to pursue the reforms needed and fulfil their commitments to keep the Republic of Moldova on track for steady European integration; welcomes the start of negotiations on the Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova on 12 January 2010 and takes note with satisfaction of the very good results the Commission is obtaining from the Republic of Moldova in this process; and calls on the Commission to present an evaluation of the visa facilitation agreement in place, to advance towards swift agreement on a formal road-map for visa liberalisation and to offer targeted support and assistance to the Moldovan authorities to meet the necessary benchmarks for full visa-free travel; calls on the Council to invite the Commission to proceed to develop the road-map for visa liberalisation, thus entering into the fully operational phase of the visa dialogue based on the Republic of Moldova's progress following exploratory talks on the four blocks of the visa dialogue.
I voted in favour of the report on integrated maritime policy (IMP) - progress made and new challenges, because I believe that the EU needs concrete measures to mobilise the economy of the sea, providing incentives and promoting the economic potential of maritime clusters, in particular in Member States and regions with large Exclusive Economic Zones, such as the case of Portugal and the Azores.
I believe, therefore, that reinforcement of integrated maritime policy is very important for promoting economic growth and the creation of new sustainable jobs in maritime regions, for protecting marine ecosystems and, especially, for encouraging the exchange of best practices.
It is also necessary that the legislation in force strengthen the safety of oil exploration and extraction.
The European Maritime Safety Agency, located in Lisbon, provides support and technical assistance in developing and implementing Union legislation in matters of safety and maritime protection, as well as in the area of pollution caused by ships.
in writing. - (RO) Counting the seven outermost regions which it has in the Indian and Atlantic Oceans, along with the Overseas Territories, the European Union occupies the largest maritime area in the world.
At the same time, Europe must devise measures supporting intervention in the case of disasters, like the one in the Gulf of Mexico, and must submit a coordinated European action plan to prevent emergency situations and tackle disasters caused by drilling rigs, at global level, especially where cross-border pollution occurs.
I voted for the report on integrated maritime policy because I believe that greater consistency between the various political sectors should be advocated, enabling use of the potential of the sea and the maritime sector in a sustainable and efficient way, from an ecological and economic point of view.
Member States such as Portugal must take advantage of their relationship with the sea and the extent of their Exclusive Economic Zone; in the Portuguese case, it is one of the largest in the world.
We disagree with this approach as well as several other aspects of the report, such as its insistence on the creation of a 'European Coastguard Service', following a federalist stance that does not respect the sovereignty and powers of Member States with regard to the management of their territorial waters and Exclusive Economic Zones.
We reject the proposal to 'introduce economic market based instruments' such as emissions-trading schemes into the maritime sector: these mechanisms have already demonstrated their ineffectiveness at achieving the environmental goals that they claim to pursue, even without having been applied to the maritime sector.
Thus I noted that the sector of renewable energies, including off-shore wind energy, should be supported in particular, because it is in line with European objectives around the diversification of sources of energy supply, and can, between now and 2020, mean a gain of 410 000 jobs in Europe, according to a study by the Commission.
The completion of this policy must allow for the enhancement of economic activities at sea and along the coasts, greater account to be taken of employment and also greater environmental protection as well as the development of research and innovation in the maritime sector.
In this respect, I voted for this report, which constitutes a significant advance, insofar as it emphasises all these elements through adopting an intersectoral approach and not a fragmented one, as could have been the case previously.
Integrated maritime policy is enormously important for the European Union economy, because it can significantly improve its competitiveness.
An important element in the strategy should also be a consolidated approach to the question of strengthening the role of European states in the field of research on the maritime economy and the development of technology and maritime engineering as well as the development of maritime resources.
Integrated maritime policy should, therefore, include not only consolidation of several areas of maritime activity and strategic maritime economy as well as maximum use of maritime potential, but should also call attention to improving the conditions of work at sea.
The European Union promoted and adopted the Maritime Package in the previous parliamentary term.
With this report we are expressing our support for the package on integrated maritime policy proposed in 2009 by the European Commission, because we believe it represents an ambitious cross-sectoral strategy for economic development, a high level of employment, and environmental protection in coastal regions and maritime sectors.
We therefore invite the Member States to extend the mandate of the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) on safety inspections and to regulate offshore oil extraction in Europe, following the recent natural disaster in the waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Furthermore, the European Parliament intends to intensify efforts in research and development in the use and application of renewable energy sources; to improve the working conditions of seafarers (the Maritime Erasmus programme); and, lastly, to ensure better links between peripheral maritime regions.
An integrated maritime policy is essential if we are to make the best use of the immense wealth that the sea provides for us, as well as all of the economic potential that the sea has.
We cannot forget that our economic activities related to the sea and the coast produce 40% of the EU's gross domestic product and, according to numerous studies, there is still huge development potential to explore.
Maritime policy must encompass not only obligatory regulations on oil exploration and transportation, but must also offer twofold compensation for losses resulting from accidents.
in writing. - (DE) If differing emission limits are to be introduced within EU waters, this will conflict with the integrated maritime policy, which, as announced, aims to take all factors into account.
We must not forget underwater nuclear testing in this respect.
Overall, this strategy does not seem to have been very well thought out and, therefore, I have voted against it.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this document because I believe that an integrated maritime policy is necessary to ensure an appropriate level of environmental protection.
As a representative of Lithuania, a country in the Baltic Sea region, I welcome the fact that this document draws attention to broader research aimed at determining and assessing the current condition of the seas.
The Meissner report is a balanced text that incorporates a series of important factors and requests.
To quote just a few figures, they generate 40% of EU GDP and, at the same time, account for 40% of trade in goods within Europe and 95% of exports outside Europe.
The report focuses on a few key points: the establishment of appropriate maritime governance structures at national and regional levels; coordinated and cross-border maritime spatial planning; maritime surveillance to protect the Member States and the EU; the protection of the marine environment; the creation of a strategy for sustainable coastal and island tourism; and the promotion of the European shipbuilding industry, which is already a flagship sector, and of maritime transport, in order to meet the ambitious objective of 'green shipping'.
We absolutely must ensure that the communication between and integration of the various sectors that come under maritime policy are a success for a whole host of reasons linked to efficiency, competitiveness, and respect for and protection of the marine environment.
in writing. - The EP agrees with the Commission that our 'strong maritime tradition' is one of the strengths of Europe.
Moreover, the EP asks the Commission, therefore, to come up with an overarching, cross-sectoral strategy for sustainable growth in coastal regions and maritime sectors by 2013, based on a broad investigation of potentials and policy options and on broad stakeholder consultation.
While on the one hand there is clearly a need to integrate maritime policy within the European Union, given that its associated activities produce 40% of EU GDP, on the other it is right to regulate such activities taking non-EU competitors into account.
Too often, the rules on fishing, tourism, transport and environmental protection in the sector have been developed separately and with no regard for the risks associated with unfair competition from third countries.
For this reason, maritime activity is, without doubt, a very important factor and is one of Europe's strengths.
Existing Union maritime policy was created separately in such areas as: maritime transport, maritime economy, new technologies, coastal areas, maritime energy, fisheries, surveillance and policing of the seas, tourism, protection of the marine environment and marine research.
Often these separate activities are carried out in ways which conflict and which have a detrimental effect on maritime policy as a whole.
It is obvious that an integrated maritime policy will contribute to further sustainable economic development of the European Union.
This will make possible, among other things, ensuring greater cohesion between different policy areas, creation of better regulation and cross-sectoral instruments and use of maritime potential and the potential of the maritime sector in an economical and ecological fashion.
What is more, in my opinion it is essential to make this sector more attractive to young people by running training and activities intended to encourage young people to work in this sector.
The report on integrated maritime policy concerns an important sector of the European economy.
Maritime activities in fact represent an important source of income for the EU, both in terms of GDP and in terms of trade in goods within and outside Europe.
Firstly, the report states that future strategies in this sector will be tailored to the specificities of sea basins, but I believe it is very important to take account of specific regional circumstances, too.
Our seas should continue to be a driving force behind growth, hence why I believe it is essential for the development of integrated maritime policy to ensure greater coherence between the rules governing the various maritime sectors and, at the same time, to safeguard the marine environment.
Until now, policies in the fields of maritime transport, the maritime economy, new technologies, coastal regions, offshore energy, fishing, maritime surveillance, tourism, protection of the marine environment, and maritime research have developed separately from each other.
An integrated approach is therefore desirable that includes, first, a framework for governance with all decision-making levels and, second, all sectors and cross-sectoral instruments.
That would be a good proposal for the outermost regions such as Madeira, as it would enable the region to make use of its sea-related activities and establish cooperation with the activities of the other regions in the sea-basin of which it is part.
As a matter of fact, thanks to their territorial waters the outermost regions give the EU the world's largest Exclusive Economic Zone, immediately making maritime and sea-related activities very important in these regions.
Striving for sustainable exploitation and an integrated approach to the management of oceans, seas and coastal areas should be a priority for the European Union.
I am convinced that an integrated maritime policy will bring beneficial effects both in the short and in the long term.
I support what this report says about requesting the Commission to cancel the talks with Mercosur until a new mandate is agreed which takes the interests all Member States into account.
Since the agricultural sector is crucial for the European economy, the European Parliament must be deeply involved in the relevant negotiations at every step of the process.
In addition, I support the amendment to the Report on the implementation of measures to ensure that all agricultural imports entering the EU meet the same production standards as European goods with regard to the protection of European consumers, animal welfare, environmental protection and social standards.
I voted for this report because the European Union has strengthened its economic and trade relations with Latin America, becoming its second most important trading partner and the leading trading partner for Mercosur and Chile.
I voted against my colleague's report, despite the fact that we are from the same group and despite the fact that he managed to include several positive points in his report.
Trade and relations between the EU and the countries of Latin America must be based on equality, solidarity and respect for workers' rights and the environment and must not allow the interests of the strongest states and companies to prevail.
If we add to this the linguistic and cultural links forged throughout history, we have an opportunity to contribute, as far as possible, to the economic and social development of those countries, however varied their situations.
In spite of the economic and social progress made in recent years, with Brazil being the most impressive example, 1 in 3 inhabitants of Latin America suffers from poverty.
Children and young people in Latin America are affected to a larger extent by this scourge, with more than half of them being deprived of sufficient material resources.
The amendment I tabled along with Mr Dess and 77 other MEPs demands full compliance by agricultural imports with European health, social, and consumer, environmental and animal protection standards.
It is, after all, extraordinary to demand that European farmers conform to the highest production standards in the world, while at the same time increasing the quantity of agricultural products that can enter Europe without meeting those same standards.
Consumers must be able to benefit from a single level of protection, no matter what they buy, and farmers must be rewarded for their tremendous efforts, not subjected to de facto unfair competition on the part of third countries.
The report on trade relations between the EU and Latin America adopted by Parliament could well make case law.
Within these negotiations, Parliament sought for particular attention to be paid to the outermost regions, due to competition from the Latin American continent in certain products, in particular bananas.
That is why Parliament asked for the strategic and traditional sectors of the Outermost Regions (OR) to be protected and receive adequate compensation in compliance with the commitments made by the EU to these regions in 2009.
I voted for the report on the European Union's trade relations with Latin America, because these should be a priority for the EU.
The EU is currently Latin America's second most important trading partner and the leading trading partner for Mercosur and Chile.
European trade policy should play an important role in achieving the Millennium Development Goals and fulfilling international commitments to human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
I therefore highlight the need for both parties to develop a broader range of trade-related economic activities.
It is therefore necessary to mobilise resources and technical assistance to identify and finance programmes that provide production opportunities at local and regional levels, and sustainable access to global markets for excluded communities and for small and medium-sized enterprises.
However, at other points it says exactly the opposite when it 'deplores the protectionist measures taken during the financial crisis by some Latin American countries, especially Argentina; urges the Commission regularly to address the issue of market access with countries in Latin America'; or also when it claims to be 'deeply concerned about the restrictive measures recently adopted by the Argentinian authorities on foodstuffs imported from third countries, including the European Union'.
in writing. - (DE) The European Union maintains good economic relations with countries in Latin America at WTO level, but also at bilateral and multilateral levels.
These trade and economic relations must continue to be developed in light of the sensitive economic sectors of the EU.
The European Union-Latin America Summit, held on 18 May in Madrid, gave a strong boost to the development of relations between the two parties: relations that become stronger from one year to the next.
in writing. - Despite agreeing with many elements of this report, I voted against in the final vote.
As the EU is Latin America's principal investor and second-largest trading partner, and as it also provides the most development aid, we believe that this information is sufficient to develop a clear and well-defined strategy regarding the trading relationship between the EU and Latin America.
A good way of providing the aid that Latin America needs is by strengthening the trading relationship between the two blocs, which, upon completion, will be one of the largest in the world.
We will have to find a balanced agreement that allows Latin American countries to develop, while simultaneously not damaging the various economic sectors of some Member States, mainly in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - (DE) In the last few years, Latin America has become an emerging economic region.
I have voted against the report because it pays too little attention to the sometimes very poor working conditions in Latin America and offers too few proposals for improving them.
in writing. - (DE) The rapporteur advocates the complete opening up of the trading markets between the EU and Latin America.
I therefore voted against this report.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe it is important to send a message to the Commission that this Parliament is determined to establish even closer links with Latin America.
South America, for a whole host of historical, social and economic reasons, has many things in common with Europe.
Our trade relations have always been excellent, but they must be strengthened and supported, including in the light of the new requirements of both continents.
We must not, in fact, forget the importance of some countries which may in the past have been regarded as developing countries, but which are now true global economic powers.
In view of all these points, I believe that Europe must continue to play its role as a preferential trade partner, guide and special point of reference for all the countries in the region.
I voted in favour of the Scholz report, because increased support for trade relations between the European Union and the countries of Latin America is the result of major democratic reforms in this particular region and improvements to the framework for protecting human rights.
However, we must ensure that future trade relations between the two regions will not hamper this progress and that products imported into the EU meet European standards in terms of quality, consumer safety and environmental protection.
I voted in favour of the resolution of the European Parliament of 21 October 2010 on the European Union's trade relations with Latin America, as I believe that the free market stimulates the global economy and may be an important factor in the development of Latin American countries.
in writing. - The reason we finally voted against the text was that the more specific proposals to shelter Latin America from speculative attacks and climate change phenomena, discourage aggressive export orientation, avoid environmental dumping and hedge the liberalisation of financial services, got diluted in the process of building compromises, as counterweights to stop even more grotesque Spanish wordings.
This report has our support because it emphasises the strengthening of relations between the EU and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Few sectors benefit from these trade relations.
On the other hand, on the subject of food imports from Latin America, we must ensure that these countries comply with the same standards in terms of quality and animal protection which our own producers also comply with.
European common trade policy is an integral and important part of the Union's general external action.
It could play a very positive role in wealth-creation goals, and in economic and political relationships between the people and countries of Europe and Latin America.
However, I know the effects that the bilateral trade agreements signed between the European Union and the countries of Latin America could have on the economies of the outermost regions.
In the region that I am from, Madeira, the consequences are particularly visible as regards banana production.
There is provision in this report for such safeguards for these regions, so I voted for it.
