In so doing, I would like to place emphasis on the fact that you became involved in the debate on the Emergency Fund because it concerned a European emergency fund.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like, first of all, to thank Ms Wortmann-Kool.
There is only one sentence in this document about the EFSF.
But, in fact, it is important for the stability of the euro area to increase lending capacity because, as you know, the EFSF is currently endowed with EUR 440 billion.
I am not asking now for this ceiling to be increased, but we know that the EFSF cannot, de facto, lend this EUR 440 billion if need be, due to the need to secure a triple-A rating for the EFSF.
And I think it will be wise, since we have the European Council on 4 February, to address these issues there.
The Commission is ready to address these issues on 4 February.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - President Barroso, I know that the European Trade Union Confederation has already raised very strong objections about the detailed interference by the Commission in the Greek and Irish labour markets, riding roughshod over collective bargaining and social dialogue.
On top of this, Boris Nemtsov was arrested on 31 December.
Article 31 of the Russian Constitution, however, guarantees the freedom of assembly.
As far as I can see, there are seven months in 2011 which have 31 days in them.
We will continue to closely follow this and raise the issue in different formats and meetings with Russia, as emphasised in the last European Union-Russia Summit on 7 December in Brussels.
I think that this House also has to deal with this problem as urgently as possible.
We have to look at it very cautiously from a legal point of view, so we need to follow a clear methodology.
President of the Commission. - Of course we are keeping this Parliament fully informed.
We can discuss this politically, but we also have to follow the clear procedures in this matter.
Mr President, a few days ago, the International Aviation Commission, which is conducting an investigation in Moscow, published its report concerning the causes of the disaster on 10 April of last year in Smoleńsk.
That said, the Commission can act in these situations only when we have the right legal basis on which to do so.
By the way, we have never been approached by the Polish authorities to intervene in this matter although, of course, we remain ready to do whatever lies within our legal competence, should we receive such a request.
Mr President, I would like to make sure I have understood you correctly.
President of the Commission. - As I said, we have to see the legal basis for it.
President of the Commission. - In the European Union, each institution and each government has its own responsibilities.
My question remains, however - on such an important issue, where the euro is being speculated on, at a point in time as important as this one, how can it be that your opinion comes across as uncoordinated with Chancellor Merkel or President Sarkozy or other Heads of Government?
I think that we should highlight what unites us rather than some specific issues about the way we communicate.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I should point out that the European Court of Auditors is a fully independent body.
President of the Commission. - The Commission, like the European Parliament, has the right to express its opinions on the audit process.
So, once and for all, we fully respect the Court of Auditors, we do not put pressure on the Court of Auditors and we try to do our best to implement the recommendations of the independent audit institution that is the Court of Auditors. (NL) Mr President, Jerusalem is the only, the eternal and the indivisible capital of the Jewish State of Israel.
The European Union's support for the Jewish state of Israel should therefore be beyond question.
At the same time, we would like Israel to respect the right of self-determination of the Palestinian people, and we believe the best solution is for two states - Israel and the Palestinian State - to exist in full respect of each other and of international law.
Regarding the issue of a change of capital or our representation in Israel, we see no reason to change it. (NL) Mr President, I am, of course, disappointed with your answer, but you are indeed speaking about East Jerusalem and the fact that, this week, the Commission condemned Israel for beginning construction of 1 400 homes in Gilo.
President of the Commission. - I think the European Union's position regarding the settlements has been fully in line with that of the international community, including Israel's closest allies.
We now come to the second part of Question Hour, a specific and concrete topic on innovation and energy. (ES) Mr President, Mr Barroso, the Commission is encouraging innovation in various areas of our energy system.
President of the Commission. - That is a very difficult question, because all priorities are linked, so we need to complete the energy market - we need an integrated energy market.
There are four priorities which I would like the European Council to address on 4 February: completion of the energy market and implementation of all the rules of the internal market; energy efficiency; low carbon technologies; and accepting joint efforts where the external dimension is concerned. (SL) Mr President, as things currently stand, the European Union must reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020.
However, at the political level, we are also discussing a more ambitious target and we know that, in this regard, the sectors covered by the Emissions Trading System (ETS), and energy in particular, would bear the brunt.
Cancún was a significant step in the climate negotiations.
At the same time, those countries that are ready to go forward and make more commitments can and should do so, and the concrete way that I am going to propose to the European Council on 1 February is to achieve more in terms of energy efficiency, an area in which we are falling short of where we should be.
Energy efficiency is now an integral part of the headline target of the EU 2020 strategy.
However, the combined national indicative targets emerging in the Europe 2020 discussions give a result that is clearly more ambitious than that, but still likely to be well below the 20%.
If these reviews show that our target of 20% is unlikely to be achieved, the Commission will consider proposing legally binding national targets for 2020. (DE) Mr President, President Barroso, I would like to ask you a question about the harmonisation of feed-in tariffs within the Union.
On 4 February, there will be the communications that we presented recently, and there is also of course the historic (I think we can now call it historic) climate and energy package that we presented some years ago under my previous Commission.
Sadly though, this framework programme also has a reputation for being the most complex and bureaucratic in the world.
Secondly, I hope to have the support of your group in the discussion on the multiannual framework for appropriate budgetary commitments to support research, technology and innovation at European level.
It is certainly one of our priorities and we are very happy to have the support of the European Parliament for that.
However, in the recommendations that we made in a document that we have just published, we called on the Member States not, where possible, to reduce investment in education or research, and specifically not in the energy sector.
Moreover, there are Member States that are doing this with great success: Member States that are undertaking budgetary consolidation exercises but are even increasing funding for research and education.
That is why I will not tire of advocating economic, social and territorial cohesion at European level.
I should like to take this opportunity, Mr President and Mr President of the Commission, to state that I consider you to be very lucky people, given what fate has had in store for you.
This is where I believe the European Union can make some investments in energy infrastructures. (LV) Mr President, Mr Barroso, the Commission has come forward with what, to my mind, is a most welcome initiative to improve the energy infrastructure throughout the European Union - in terms of both electricity networks and interconnections for gas networks.
Your report estimates that the cost will be approximately EUR 200 billion.
Improvements to these networks will be carried out until 2020.
The report also states that around one half, EUR 100 billion therefore, will come from the private sector.
President of the Commission. - As you said, it is correct that EUR 200 billion of investment is needed for gas infrastructures and power grids up to 2020.
It is estimated that EUR 100 billion of this total investment need will be delivered on time by the market alone, whereas the other EUR 100 billion will require public action on permitting and leveraging the necessary private capital.
That is why we are now proposing, for instance, unbundling.
President of the Commission. - As Mrs Alfano rightly said, this is a detailed question.
Let me tell you - I think it is an important point - just on energy and the internal market for energy, we have now 77 infringement procedures with Member States in general, and 55 on the internal market.
So if you provide me with that question in writing, I will be more than happy to send a reply in writing. (DE) Mr President, innovation, climate protection, renewable energy - on reading the EU 2020 strategy, one might actually think that the EU takes its environmental and energy policy measures seriously.
All this 25 years after Chernobyl - for indeed, we will be marking a sad anniversary on 26 April.
With full respect for subsidiarity in that matter, some Member States have it and some do not.
I understand that at this stage, you cannot set the figures with Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan in terms of millions of cubic metres of gas, but does the Commission have any estimates or expectations of its own, obviously non-binding, which point to whether it would be able to fill the Southern Corridor as a whole or Nabucco in particular, which is supposed to provide 31 million cubic metres?
President of the Commission. - From this visit to Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, I have brought the clear commitment of both countries to give their full support to the European Union in terms of the Southern Corridor.
However, there is enough gas in that area to come to the European Union if the Member States of the European Union are ready to cooperate with those countries and others to make that project available - either Nabucco or other projects in the Southern Corridor. (RO) Given that an ever-increasing number of families in Europe, especially in the context of the economic crisis and rising unemployment rate, are spending in excess of 10% of their monthly income on energy bill payments, I would like to ask you what specific measures the European Commission is intending to take to reduce energy poverty.
I would also like to ask you whether you are intending to increase significantly the percentage of the European Regional Development Fund which can be used by Member States to improve energy efficiency in housing, starting from the future financial perspectives.
