Green Paper on reform of the common fisheries policy (debate) The next item is the report by Maria do Céu Patrão Neves, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the Green Paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy -.
Permit me to address a few words to the group of 50 fishermen who should be entering the Chamber just now, and who are here to watch this debate and the vote on the report.
Environmental aspects are needed to guarantee the conservation of stocks; social aspects to guarantee the advancement and dignity of the profession; and economic aspects to guarantee that the industry can generate income.
The Green Paper of April 2009 looks at various structural constraints in the common fisheries policy: overcapacity, lack of precise objectives, adoption of short-term decisions, lack of responsibility in the sector and poor compliance in general.
The Member States, both individually and jointly in the Council, are studying in detail all aspects of the questions concerned.
The first consultation phase ended in December 2009 and the Commission has received 1 700 proposals and held more than 125 meetings and seminars to date.
The second phase, which will begin on 1 September of this year, will analyse the contributions made and discuss the main ideas.
On 4 and 5 May, the ministers will meet in Vigo to examine the results of the conference, and it is possible that the June Council will include in its agenda an informal debate on a working document concerning possible changes.
The Council has yet to adopt a position in this respect; it will only adopt formal decisions on the basis of the legislative proposals it receives from the Commission in 2011, and it will do so in accordance with the rules on the ordinary legislative procedure.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, since this is my first speech as a Commissioner to the Members of this House, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to address the European Parliament.
As you all know, the last reform in 2002 was not sufficiently successful.
Now we have to tackle all the past deficits, to achieve better results from an environmental, social and economic aspect.
The public consultation has shown clearly that there is broad support for this reform.
I would like to highlight two specific issues: first, public funding.
We will prepare a summary report on last year's consultation which will help us prepare the proposals for the new policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the Council for its comments, and I would like to thank and wish the best of luck to the new Commissioner - who is making her debut today in this House - for the work that we are preparing to carry out.
I believe that what we are implementing is important, and I hope that this Green Paper, which we are beginning to discuss today and which we will vote on later, does not end up as it did in 2002.
Today, however, the European Parliament finds itself in a different position.
Today we need to set ourselves rules that we have already been imposing on our economy and on our fishermen for a number of years.
However, coastal states, even those bordering Europe, have wilfully and often, indeed very often, ignored these rules, and we find ourselves in the paradoxical situation in which all this is imposed on our fishermen, while the others can do as they like.
My hope is that, within the Green Paper, and before embarking on the White Paper, we can work with third countries - those countries that are not part of the Union - in order to come up with shared and common rules to ensure that those who are subject to the rules do not feel betrayed or ignored by the Union and do not view the Union as an enemy rather than as a friend.
We are also talking about an important element of production in our countries, at our coasts, in our regions - an economic and cultural element that encompasses many values - and as you quite rightly said, Mrs Damanaki, there are problems with the 2002 reform.
A financial framework, which you said must produce better results, has to produce better results than the current policy.
At the same time, we are facing a situation where serious problems need to be dealt with, like the discards, the enormous overcapacity that exists in some places and many other things besides.
We have a good Green Paper and I am certain that we will have a much better fisheries policy from 2013 onwards.
Mr President, Commissioner Damanaki, ladies and gentlemen, my eyes were opened to the EU's common fisheries policy and its destructive consequences in 2002, when, following a majority vote in the Swedish Parliament, Sweden decided on a unilateral ban on cod fishing for a year, but was prevented from implementing it by the European Commission.
Despite the fact the Sweden intended to compensate its commercial fishermen for the ban and the fact that researchers in the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea had recommended a total ban on cod fishing for a number of years and despite the fact that the various cod stocks along the Swedish coast had been wiped out or reduced by between 70 and 90%, the principle of the common fisheries policy was more important.
The last vessels to catch bluefin tuna were subsidised by the EU as recently as 2005 in the Mediterranean.
Between 2000 and 2008, EU taxpayers shelled out EUR 34 million to build and modernise tuna vessels at a time when stocks were on the verge of collapse.
A radical reform of the fisheries policy is needed.
Ahead of today's vote on the report on the Green Paper, I would call on all of my fellow Members to at least remove one bad paragraph from an otherwise largely excellent report.
I do not think that it befits the EU to pursue such a policy in 2010.
Mr President, Mrs Damanaki, at the outset, I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Patrão Neves for the effort she has put into the preparation of this report.
This report is, however, only the basis for building future common fisheries policy, which requires thorough reconstruction and fundamental changes so that care for the natural environment can be reconciled with development of the historical heritage of fishing.
The new fisheries policy must stimulate development of the industry in a Europe which is engulfed in the crisis, but it is also necessary to pay attention to the predatory industrial fishing being carried out particularly in the Baltic Sea, where healthy and valuable fish are being turned into fish meal for use on poultry and cattle farms, and, in exchange, the toxic Far East panga arrives on the tables of Europeans.
This means involving the fishermen in finding solutions and implementing them.
Some 19 000 people are employed in some 1 300 businesses in England and Wales as a result of the recreational angling industry.
The common fisheries policy has always been prejudiced against the British fleet, which is currently permitted to fish only 7% of the Channel cod quota and only one fifth of the quota in our own territorial waters.
Perhaps the Commissioner will see fit to favour the needs of harmless recreational fishermen in the UK in the same way as her predecessor showed open sensitivity to the needs of his own country's fishermen when he opposed a ban on the sale of bluefin tuna, an industry that earned EUR 100 million a year for his country, Malta.
The CFP has already wiped out most of what ought to have been a great renewable resource.
I simply cannot understand any reluctance to clearly suggest alternatives, as discussed in this House in 1996, such as transferable quota systems or effort-based management, which have had such positive results and which could help to maintain the more industrial fleets at least.
For the first time since the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, we have the opportunity to express our opinions on the reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP).
This report is acceptable and I would like to thank Mrs Patrão Neves and Mrs Andrés Barea for their hard work.
These include specific support for small-scale fisheries.
Their presence in the coastal regions not only provides jobs, but also increases the attractiveness of many of these regions for tourists.
It is a fact that environmental sustainability is a fundamental prerequisite for the economic survival of fishermen.
A third important point concerns the external aspects of the CFP and the partnership agreements with third countries.
Fortunately, we have all succeeded in finding effective compromises.
At the same time, however, it is important to ensure a viable and sustainable way of life for Europe's fishermen.
The majority of boats fishing in these areas are less than 15 metres, catching fish and catching quantities that have no significant impact on the fish stocks and, of course, many of them are fishing non-quota species.
With the operation of the Lisbon Treaty following the referendum in my own country last year, the European Parliament now has greater legislative responsibility.
Well, I agree, and the 27 years of experience in Scotland of the CFP has been a bad experience.
If we want to move to a system of fisheries management which works, and I think that is what we all want to do, then we must be prepared to embrace a radically different approach.
If we do not get this CFP reform right... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Patrão Neves, for the very hard work that she has done on this report.
However, I would have liked it to be more ambitious - particularly as it concerns the future existence of viable fish stocks in our seas.
My question to the Council and the Commission is one that our guests here today will surely not like, but it will be of crucial importance for the future.
It is a comprehensive report that addresses all aspects of this policy and, in particular, the protection of resources, a global approach to the management of fish stocks and decentralised governance.
I wish to express, today in this House, France's satisfaction with regard to this contribution by Parliament, on which we have worked together, and I thank Mrs Patrão Neves for the work she has done.
Mrs Damanaki, we are counting on you. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Martín Fragueiro, the current common fisheries policy has failed.
Protection of fishermen depends on protection of catches.
The ecological approach must be the driving force behind a new common fisheries policy and must be accompanied by long-term planning, participatory procedures and the application of the principle of prevention.
This long-term approach to species conservation must also be applied in all our international fisheries agreements.
I am in favour of fundamental reform of the common fisheries policy.
The fishing industry is of fundamental economic and cultural importance to our coastal regions.
Therefore, achieving a balance between the economy and the environment is of great significance for me in the context of the forthcoming reform of the common fisheries policy. (NL) Mr President, sustainability is a key concept in the Green Paper, and rightly so: sustainable in the sense of being both future-proof for fisheries and good for the environment.
This further increases the urgency of the need for reform.
I was pleased to find this in the Green Paper; it is the only way to a sustainable future for the fisheries sector. (NL) The current fisheries policy is not working well enough; a dramatic change is needed to reverse the situation.
We cannot talk in generalised terms about the overcapacity or the overfishing or the lack of compliance.
Finally, I should like to offer the rapporteur sincere thanks for this excellent report. (EL) Mr President, I, too, should like to welcome Commissioner Damanaki and, in particular, to thank Mrs Maria do Céu Patrão Neves for her exhaustive and exceptional work.
What we must not forget is that viability has three dimensions, which are also highlighted in the Neves report: the social dimension, the economic dimension and the ecological dimension.
A fisheries policy which targets viable development must not revolve solely around fish; it must also focus on man.
The first result of our efforts is that Parliament can now state the direction in which it intends to steer the future common fisheries policy.
Mrs Patrão Neves' report analyses the possibilities for solving the adverse situation of the fishing industry in Europe.
If this does not take place, our Community risks voting through another version of a reform, which will not solve the problems being faced by the European fishing industry. (BG) This is the first time we are discussing the common fisheries policy since the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, fully aware of the great responsibilities we have as a result of Parliament's increased powers.
There was a very heated debate on the Green Paper, and I sincerely wish to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done.
It must take into account how the situation has changed following the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and 2007, as well as the new Member States.
I would like to emphasise on this point the need to focus particular attention on the Black Sea and create dedicated bodies for managing it.
Yesterday, many Members attended a seminar I organised, a presentation by the Marine Stewardship Council.
They have a piece of paper that they can hold up to their families and their communities which demonstrates that their hard work of today is not damaging the prospects of fish stocks' survival in the future.
The issues are similar.
We all want the best for the sectors and we are trying to reform them in a way which will deliver the best possible outcomes.
I am a little concerned, and the rapporteur points to it in her explanatory statement, that in 2002, we were also full of good intentions but that reform failed the fishing sector and failed the sustainability criteria as well.
If we achieve that, we can perhaps do the same for agriculture. (PT) As various speakers have already said, the objective which we have been trying to achieve with the common fisheries policy, without success so far, is environmentally sustainable, economically viable and socially worthwhile fishing.
The Commission's Green Paper makes a good diagnosis of the situation in the sector and poses many questions, but it falls short when it comes to offering solutions.
The reform must focus on responsible, sustainable and competitive fisheries.
The discarding of fish must be reduced to a minimum, but for this to be possible, the policy behind the discards must be changed.
There must be more stringent and uniform control in the Member States.
Out and back again the same day results in fresh fish, the fish get a good price and it is easy on the environment and on fish stocks.
I also welcome this report as it represents an important change in relation to the current common fisheries policy and includes measures that are particularly relevant to the outermost regions, such as the distinction between small-scale and industrial fleets and the creation of bio-geographical regions.
In addition, in order to maintain good environmental conditions in marine areas and respect the precautionary principle, it is necessary to reassess the limit of 100 nautical miles around islands, as it is vital to reclaim 200 miles so that ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I, too, would like to begin by adding my congratulations to the rapporteur.
It seems to me that, if the CFP is going to regain its credibility, it must first of all have at its heart sustainability; if there is no fish, there is no future for the industry.
Secondly, stability and predictability for our fishing communities and our fishermen.
Fundamentally the reform of the CFP needs to provide a future for our fishing communities and our fishermen.
Fundamentally it seems to me that the key in terms of the CFP... (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) Mr President, I, too, would like to take this opportunity to emphasise the points that some of us believe should be fundamental in the final report on which we are going to vote.
Finally, I believe that it is important to stress and call for greater coherence and responsibility in the fisheries agreements with third countries; the agreements with Morocco and Guinea, for example, demand this. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to wish the Commissioner, Mrs Damanaki, every success.
I would also like to thank Mrs Patrão Neves, who has done an excellent job of conducting the negotiations.
It is important that the countries with small fishing industries are also represented.
Of course, we are all convinced of the importance of protecting fish stocks and ensuring that they remain sustainable so that they stay at a level which will guarantee the existence of our fisheries in future.
Tourism also plays an important role in this respect.
The common fisheries policy should take account of the specific conditions of different regions and seas.
Small-scale fisheries and coastal regions are a priority.
I would like to reassure all of you that I will take your contributions on this issue very seriously.
I would also like to reassure you that I have no intention of introducing heavy measures and rules on hobby anglers.
A lot of Member States are implementing this system already.
Just to mention some other priorities: a clear level playing field for the Mediterranean and the other areas as regards fishermen from other countries - this is correct; we have to do it to secure fair competition for our fishermen and fisherwomen; phasing out discards; labelling.
These are our priorities.
I think that right now, it is important to stress that with this report, we have succeeded in striking a good balance between the main issues, a broad consensus, and that overall, the report has the capacity and potential to make an adequate response to the needs, or should I say demands, of the sector.
Just as we worked in the Committee on Fisheries, chaired by Mrs Fraga Estévez, I hope that we can now carry on with this work within the committee and, on a wider scale, with the Council and the European Commission, so that we can make progress towards the work for the legislative proposals, which will be just as intensive.
Europe has always taken an interest in the fisheries sector.
Lastly, we agree with the provisions of paragraph 23 on modernisation, especially of the small-scale fleet, although we would like more details on this matter.
With regard to paragraphs 62 and 63 on professional qualifications for operators in the sector, we would like further clarification, especially as regards small-scale fishing, which would end up being penalised the most if the rules on fleet management were made tougher.
in writing. - While recreational angling constitutes just a small catch percentage of Europe's fishing industry, it is an integral economic and social element of many parts of the EU, particularly Ireland East.
This reputation for angling also has a vital impact on tourism in many parts of Ireland, both from within Ireland and internationally, with Tiger Woods one famous regular patron of the Liffey in County Kildare.
As a result of falling stocks of fish, there is a move to impose controls on shore angling and to deduct these catches from the quotas of the commercial fishing industry.
It is therefore necessary for this House to recognise recreational angling in all its forms as an important stakeholder in the fishing industry, and for the reformed common fisheries policy to take its economic and social benefits into account in its White Paper.
The report on the Green Paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy has the aim of initiating a public debate in EU and Member State institutions.
The fisheries policy, just like the common agricultural policy, is a strategic agenda which directly influences all citizens of the EU, and which must be resolved in accordance with the three core principles, which are the economic profitability of fishing, the preservation and maintenance of fish stocks and the maintenance of an acceptable standard of living for persons engaged in fishing.
Unless there is a balance between all of these principles in the draft legislation, there will be a risk of economic decline in the coastal regions, of certain fish species being fished out or of increases in illegal fishing above the limits.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Patrão Neves on her work and on the report that has now been voted upon.
The topic of fisheries is obviously a sensitive issue for the Portuguese, as we have several fishing communities, and it is an absolutely crucial issue for the Democratic and Social Centre - People's Party (CDS-PP).
in writing. - On a practical level I welcome the proposed developments for the long-term protection of marine resources, for both environmental and economic purposes; the updating of fishing technologies, and the emphasis it places on the need for professional qualifications within the sector.
The CFP has become a bureaucratic nightmare with over regulation and micro-management plaguing the industry while achieving little in the way of positive outcomes.
The imminent reform of the CFP presents an opportunity to take the policy in a new direction, away from excessive bureaucracy, and deliver on all the aspects which it should - environmentally, socially and economically.
The core goal of a reformed CFP must be to ensure that fishermen can earn a decent livelihood while also achieving environmental sustainability.
The Green Paper on the common fisheries policy tears to shreds both the European Commission and the Member States.
It is emphatic proof that not all projects and reforms carried out within the Union are successful.
One of the fundamental mistakes of the 2002 reform was excessive centralisation.
Regionalisation of fisheries policy should go hand in hand with specific measures relating to social and economic matters.
The fact that it is not possible to increase catches and employment in the Baltic fishing sector should lead to the above measures being put into effect.
Analyses carried out by the WWF say openly that if specific changes are not introduced, the breeding population of Mediterranean tuna and many other species will disappear by 2012.
The situation regarding fish stocks is extremely worrying: two thirds of the EU's commercially exploitable fish stocks have plummeted.
The crisis is due to the fact that, for a long time now, there has been complete indifference to the problems that have accumulated owing to overfishing and illegal fishing.
The EU must take the crisis in fish stocks seriously.
A crucial component of the new common fisheries policy will be to put the agreements we have with our fishing partners on a more sustainable basis.
The Green Paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP) is an opportunity to review this European policy in its various aspects (economic, social and environmental), redefining new approaches aimed at resolving the problems that persist in this sector.
The reform of the CFP has particular emphasis on the outermost regions, where fisheries are extremely important to local development and people's livelihoods.
I would reiterate that greater efficiency in the management of fishery resources and a financial support strategy for workers in this sector are essential priorities within this reform, and they must be implemented at a regional level.
The reform of the common fisheries policy marks a new stage in the development of the sector, with more active participation by all those involved at a national, regional and industry level.
