EU - South Korea free trade agreement (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Daniel Caspary, Peter Šťastný, Paweł Zalewski, David Martin, Gianluca Susta, Kader Arif, Michael Theurer, Niccolò Rinaldi, Metin Kazak, Marielle De Sarnez and Jan Zahradil, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the European Conservatives and Reformists, on the free trade agreement between the EU and South Korea - B7-0001/2010).
Madam President, Commissioner, the negotiations on the agreement with South Korea have been completed and the documents have been initialled.
author. - (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, new players have emerged out of the wings onto the world stage, some of which were actually considered developing countries not long ago.
This must change our approach, cultural and otherwise, towards free trade and the tangible manifestations of the relationship between the European Union and its major competitors.
These terms are reciprocity, European interest, the fight against dumping and the fight against tariff barriers.
The United States is jumping through hoops to defend Boeing against Airbus and the Argentinean Government is threatening to expropriate Telecom.
After more than two years of negotiations, the free trade agreement was initialled on 15 October last year.
As regards the regulation on safeguards, the Commission intends to present its proposal for such a regulation to the Council and the European Parliament in the coming weeks, and hopes that it will be possible to adopt this legislation rapidly so as to ensure that its application takes place as close as possible to the application of the FTA.
It is, above all, a demonstration of the EU's commitment to actively promoting the 2005 UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expression.
The current economic impact of duty drawback is very small, about one eighth of the value of the Korean duty concessions.
The scope of these commitments is broader than that of any comparable agreement.
For every car that we export to South Korea from Europe, 15 come the other way.
Do not forget, Mr De Gucht, that the car industry is still Europe's most important industrial sector.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, I believe that this Korean free trade agreement is important for three reasons.
Scottish whisky sells GBP 137 million worth a year into the Korean market already so with this deal, we could see a significant increase.
These two principles will soon constitute a precedent for our other trade partners.
Thirdly, this agreement also breaks new ground because you refer to a EUR 1.6 billion reduction in customs duties from which we will benefit on the Korean market.
On the carbon border tax mentioned during your hearing and now on the Tobin tax, I bet you, Mr De Gucht, that before the end of your mandate, the Commission will have to speak out strongly on the Tobin tax because it is now an essential tool for regulating the financial markets.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, first of all, can I take the opportunity of welcoming you, Commissioner, to your new post, and may you have a very successful term.
But, you know, I think if we are going to depend on the car industry - and we are going to totally defend it - then I think we are picking the wrong particular area in which to do this, and certainly General Motors would not be the most important in my area, as far as I would be concerned.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, we have decried the disastrous consequence of the liberalisation of the global economy for many sectors of economic activity, particularly in some Member States and the regions that are most dependent on these sectors.
There must be a level playing field for both parties.
I therefore trust I can count on your support and on that of your Commission to assist us in our future work, with everyone acting within the scope of his responsibilities, but always for the benefit of a trade policy that is obviously more European in scope, but that is, above all, fairer.
This industry and also the European textile sector have expressed concerns on specific issues such as the duty drawback system and the safeguard clause.
Commissioner, I want you to clearly explain to me why the safeguard clause for the duty drawback enters into force in five years.
The labour clauses in the contract are good, but they do not go far enough.
There have been cases in Korea, in particular in recent months, in which there have been fundamental breaches of trade union rights, such as the right to collective bargaining and the right to freedom of organisation.
Throughout the negotiating process, the European trade unions and, in particular, the unions in the metal industry, have highlighted these cases, specifically with regard to the problems to be expected in the automotive sector.
Paragraph 314 of the South Korean Criminal Code refers to the crime of 'disrupting operations'.
Mr De Gucht, perhaps you could explain the safeguard clauses to me in simple terms.
You, yourself, referred to a number of impact studies, but I have never read an impact study that sets out what the impact is, sector by sector, on employment.
Finally, to be honest, when one looks at the economic situation we are in, with a car industry ... (The President cut off the speaker) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a supplementary question to the Commissioner.
Commissioner, we are sure you will do an excellent job but, in the words of another Korean proverb, 'ask the way even when you already know it'. (PL) Mr President, the free trade agreement with South Korea seems a very good development.
The safeguard clauses are a proposal.
I already said during the hearing that I am not going to make a proposal for an early, provisional application unless Parliament has itself pronounced on the agreement, whether as formal ratification by Parliament or by some other procedure that we can establish between the INTA Committee and the Commission.
The Legal Service is still preparing an opinion on that, but we cannot rule out the possibility that in the end, we will have to consider this a mixed agreement, which implies that all the national parliaments will also have to ratify it, and which could also have - in reply to Niccolò Rinaldi's question - consequences for the voting procedure in Council.
The present figures are that 37 000 cars are being exported to South Korea and approximately 440 000 imported from there.
It is not, in my opinion, of such a nature that it undermines multilateralism.
