The oral question consists of seven questions, specifically on the progress made on a range of sensitive subjects, such as public procurement; negotiations concerning intellectual property rights issues in relation to generic medicines; the application for a mandate on overseas investment negotiations that the Commission submitted to the European Council; issues being negotiated relating to culture and cultural services; whether there has been a specific assessment of the effects of a possible FTA with India on the main European industries; whether there is a quantitative assessment of the foreseeable benefits and losses from this FTA for the European Union; and, finally, whether the Commission assures us that it will give Parliament's views on this issue the proper consideration.
We are therefore working very hard to bring this negotiation to a conclusion and there is a real opportunity to do so.
We are now intensively negotiating on procurement, and this is the first time that India has negotiated a substantive procurement chapter including specific rules and market access commitments.
We are also having very intense discussions on services and the contours of a possible package are getting clearer, but some of our key interests concern sectors where legislative reform is still ongoing or being contemplated in India.
There is also sustainable development, which is, of course, very important for us but very sensitive in India.
So yes, there will be a chapter on sustainable development that will be part and parcel of the agreements, that will recognise the importance of relevant international standards and be based on cooperation, but we also need to be clear that a sustainable development chapter which would allow the use of trade restrictions linked to social or environmental issues will not be acceptable to India.
This would also not be in accordance with the model we are advocating in our trade agreements in general.
Another issue which has been sensitive in this negotiation and the cause of some concern is access to medicines and the potential impact this FTA might have on access to medicines in the developing world.
Therefore, this FTA - whether its intellectual property rights chapter, its investment chapter or any other chapter - will not undermine the capacity of India to promote, produce or export generic medicines, including through compulsory licences.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of India, I would like to state that I expressly agree with the Commissioner that it is good for us to be in talks with this country regarding a trade agreement.
However, I would expressly like to see all these exclusions expire on a particular day.
I would therefore like very clear limits for all exclusions, whether in the form of time limits or benchmarks.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the EU-India free trade agreement negotiations are ambitious, they concern many economic sectors, but they are also a cause for concern in Europe and in India, as I was able to see during last month's meeting between the trade committee of the two chambers of the Indian Parliament and the European Parliament's delegation for relations with India.
I should like to emphasise a few points in particular.
We are asking India to allow sensitive sectors such as the automotive and alcohol sectors, in which our exports are today heavily taxed, to also feature in the agreement.
As regards public procurement, I congratulate the Commission if it is true that India seems to be prepared, for the first time, to include public procurement in an international agreement.
Indian railways - to give you an example, 17 000 trains transport 18 million passengers every day, and there are plans to build a further 25 000 kilometres of track in the next 10 years - are one of the many markets that could potentially be opened up with this free trade agreement.
In the Committee on International Trade, they have consistently asked the Commission not to pursue the investment chapter until Parliament has given its opinion on what investment policy should look like, but now, in this resolution, they are calling on the Commission to go ahead without waiting for Parliament's opinion.
We want to know whether the agreement text will put small-scale farmers and fishermen in India at risk and whether European steel workers are threatened with redundancy because Indian capital will, in future, be able to be invested freely in the purchase of companies in the EU as a result of the agreement. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political analysts and politicians - for example, Henry Kissinger - who predicted decades ago that besides the United States of America, the European Union, Russia and China, and India, too, would have a leading role in the new world order were right.
Of course, we congratulate the people, the peoples of India on that, but we should not forget about those infringements, including child labour, which led to this, to this development, and the European Union must send a clear message to India that the human rights infringements and child labour cannot be continued in the future.
We therefore suggest that the free trade agreement contain guarantees to ensure the independence of European family entrepreneurs, smallholders and producers, through which Europe might overcome the economic crisis in which we currently find ourselves. (PL) Mr President, it is right that, in a situation where there is a problem with extending trade liberalisation within the World Trade Organisation, the European Union is concluding free trade agreements with important global partners, such as India.
It is very important that this sector should expand and bring benefits for European and Indian investors. (RO) Mr President, the free trade agreement with India will become the most substantial agreement of this kind if the negotiations are concluded satisfactorily for both sides.
India's efforts in building a strong economy must be backed up by the political will to improve the situation in terms of human, social and environmental rights.
The phrase used in the motion for a resolution is potentially offensive to Indians.
If negotiations are to be brought to a swift conclusion, consultations must be stepped up on key sectors, such as services, non-tariff barriers, public procurement and geographical indications.
As far as the trade in goods is concerned, I would highlight the high average tariffs imposed by India on both agricultural and industrial goods.
As regards access to the services sector, unfortunately, there appears to be no clear commitment on the part of India at present.
Moreover, India is also an ally of the Union within the framework of multilateral negotiations on geographical indications in the Doha Round.
Finally, I should like to say that the Union must demonstrate flexibility towards the Indian request for protection for non-agricultural Indian geographical indications so that India, in turn, will grant protection for European geographical indications. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, I really do think it is important that, following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, we decide on the structure of the negotiations together, because this Treaty gives Parliament a new role in trade relations.
We therefore need to make it clear that the interests of jobs in industry in Europe must take priority in the trade agreements.
For that reason, although an agreement has to be asymmetrical, at the end of the day, the tariffs must be zero.
It is not acceptable for us to have tariffs of 100% in mechanical engineering and the automotive sector and, in the end, perhaps negotiate 50%.
Therefore, Commissioner, we need to clearly define our priority areas and they lie in industry.
We also need a level playing field to be established with regard to social standards, and it is also necessary for clear obligations to be imposed on India in relation to workers' rights. (RO) Madam President, India is booming as a country, with enviable economic growth, and is one of our biggest trade partners.
One important aspect relates to the deregulation of services, especially with regard to modes 3 and 4.
I would like to ask the Commission to tell us what stage the discussions have reached on this subject.
It is quite clear to me when I look at what the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce is now saying that we are likely to increase bilateral trade from EUR 69 billion in 2009 to EUR 160 billion in 2015.
Can I also welcome, Commissioner, this joint declaration made by you and the Indian Trade Minister, Anand Sharma, on 13 December 2010 stating unequivocally that nothing in the agreement would prevent the poorest from accessing life-saving medicines.
May I finally be bold enough to ask you whether we can conclude this FTA before the summer is out. (PL) Madam President, it seems to me that, as opposed to my fellow Members, I believe that the agreement will be very beneficial for India as well as the European Union at this juncture.
Digital services and personal data are very important in Europe as well.
However, this is a free trade agreement, and it cannot include all our expectations or everything we would like India to achieve. (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, there are so many issues involved in this agreement that you have to concentrate somewhat in order to pick out the most important ones.
In other words, we need to view from the opposite side, too.
However, these requirements must be binding for both sides, they must be met and, if they are not met, it must have consequences for both sides on account of social dumping. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, we support the negotiations on this free trade agreement with India, which has to be ambitious but which nevertheless still raises some issues.
Although it has been officially prohibited since 1986, an estimated 60 million children still work today in India's fields and factories.
The Commission cannot ignore minimum social standards during these negotiations.
I am pleased that access to Indian federal government contracts is being covered by these negotiations, but what about provincial contracts?
As I understood it, the Commission had listed 200 indications that it intended to protect via an agreement that would come into force before the free trade agreement.
The Commission and the Indian authorities should and must intensify their cooperation on a common definition of counterfeit drugs, an important area which is harmful to patient health, in order that public health is adequately protected. (RO) Madam President, as a member of the European Union-India delegation, I support the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the European Union and India.
I would like to ask the Commission how this agreement is going to reflect both the European Union's future industrial policy and India's industrial policy.
I would also like to remind our colleagues from all across the political spectrum that this is a trade agreement and, as such, we should be focusing on the trade aspects.
It concerns me when we place too much emphasis on our standards from day one in an almost imperialist way, as my colleague, Bill Newton Dunn, said earlier.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank colleagues for the very rich debate on the FTA negotiations with India.
It is, of course, very difficult to go into all the questions in a detailed manner, but let me just focus on some questions that have been repeatedly put.
What is very important is that our negotiations also cover to the maximum extent possible India's central level public sector undertakings where the bulk of procurement is done.
Let me also say that child labour is a very complex matter and it has always been a very complex matter in our own countries.
Several other Members specifically raised this point in connection with doctors in developing countries.
I would like to be very clear, however, and I have already said this on several occasions, during conferences and also directly to the NGOs concerned: we are not asking for data exclusivity; we are simply not asking for that.
The only question is whether zero can be achieved in certain sectors.
Nevertheless, I should like to draw your attention to the two objectives: to reach zero in, say, 20 years, and to obtain a very moderate reduction in the meantime.
I am certainly willing to continue the discussion on this agreement with Parliament and the Committee on International Trade, the more so now that we are reaching the end game in this discussion.
However, your predecessor did not act fairly in allowing many Members to overrun by half a minute or 20 seconds - the Commissioner also spoke for seven minutes and 36 seconds instead of three minutes.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 11 May 2011.
Today, the Indian market has closed itself off to our products by imposing exorbitant 150% tariffs on them.
